                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 29996

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (IDA-31020 IDA-31021 IDA-31022 IDA-31023 IDA-31024 IDA-31025)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$180.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                     FOR A

                  THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                November 30, 2004




POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT (AFTP3)
AFRICA REGION

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective November 2004)

                      Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                             1 SDR = US$ 1.53
                             US$ 1 = CFAF 509.5

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1    - December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC      Loading Certificate (Attestation de Réservation de Cale)
AFD      French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
BEAC     Regional Central Bank (Banque des Etats de l 'Afrique Centrale)
BICEC    Banque Internationale du Cameroun pour I 'Epargne et le Commerce
BICIC    Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et I'Industrie du Cameroun
BOT      Build-Operate-Transfer
CAMAIR   Cameroon Airlines
CAMSUCO  Cameroon Sugar Company
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDC      Cameroon Development Corporation
CFAF     CFA Franc
CIMA     Regional Treaty on Insurance
CNCC     National Shippers' Council (Conseil National des Chargeurs du Cameroun)
CNPS     National Social Insurance Fund (Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale)
CNR      National Reinsurance Company (Compagnie Nationale de Réassurance)
COBAC    Banking Commission (Commission Bancaire de I 'Afrique Centrale)
CTS      Technical Supervision Committee (Comité Technique de Suivi)
ESAF     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (IMF)
FIMAC    Financement d 'Investissements des Micro-Réalisations Agricoles
         et Communautaires
FNE      National Employment Agency (Fonds National de l 'Emploi)
HEVECAM  Rubber Cameroon (Hévea du Cameroun)
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MINEF    Ministry of Environment and Forests (Ministère de l 'Environnement et
         des Forêts)
MINFIB   Ministry of Finance and Budget (Ministère des Finances)
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
ONADEF   Office National du Développement des Forêts
ONPC     Office National des Ports du Cameroun (National Ports Office of
         Cameroon)
PFP      Policy Framework Paper
PNFVA    National Program for Agricultural Training and Adult Education (Programme
         National de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole)
PNGE     National Environmental
         Management Program (Plan National de Gestion de l 'Environnement)
PNVA     National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme National de

             Vulgarisation Agricole)
PSA          Food Security Program (Programme de Sécurité Alimentaire)
PSU          Emergency Social Program (Programme Social d'Urgence)
REGIFERCAM National Railway (Régie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun)
ROAD FUND    Fonds routier, établi par la loi 96-07 du 8 avril 1996 portant
             protection du patrimoine routier national
SACII        Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SDA          Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SIC          Cameroon Housing Company (Société Immobilière du Cameroun)
SNEC         Cameroon Water Supply Company (Société Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun)
SOCAPALM     Cameroon Palm oil Company (Société Camerounaise des Palmeraies)
SOCAR        Insurance Company (Société Camerounaise d'Assurance et de Réassurance)
SODECOTON    Cotton Development Company (Société de Développement Cotonnier)
SONEL        National Electricity Company (Société Nationale d'Electricité)
SRC          Credit Recovery Company (Société de Recouvrement des Créances)
UNCTAD       United Nations Conference on Trade and Development

                        Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                     Country Director        Ali M. Khadr
       Sector Manager/Lead Economist         Cadman Atta Mills/Chukwuma F. Obidegwu
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Florence M. Charlier

                             THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
                     THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 25
8. Lessons Learned                                                               27
9. Partner Comments                                                              29
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Annex 8. Structural Adjustment Credit III: Summary of Conditionalities           44
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 47

Project ID: P054443                                                  Project Name: Cameroon - SAC III
Team Leader: Florence M. Charlier                                    TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Cameroon - SAC III                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-31020; IDA-31021;
                                                                                                     IDA-31022; IDA-31023;
                                                                                                     IDA-31024; IDA-31025
   Country/Department: CAMEROON                                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (37%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (18%); Forestry (18%); Central government
                            administration (17%); Telecommunications (10%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Other public sector governance (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Tax policy and
                            administration (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/16/1998                                     Effective: 09/24/1998                09/24/1998
     Appraisal: 05/01/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/25/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CAMEROON/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ali M. Khadr                                   Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Cadman Atta Mills                              Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:             Florence M. Charlier                           Brendan Horton
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   As stated in the Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive
Directors proposing a structural adjustment credit in favor of Cameroon in the amount of SDR 133.5
million (US$180.0 million), the overall development objective of the Credit was "to lay the groundwork for
a substantial increase in economic growth (annual GDP growth of over 5 percent) in order to create jobs,
especially for the young and to reduce poverty." Four major development areas were targeted as vehicles
for meeting this overall objective, namely: the transport sector, the privatization program (public utilities
and agro-industries), the financial sector and the forestry sector.

3.1.2   The report went further to identify several development objectives aimed at selected sectoral
components, as follows:

    (a) Transport sector: To substantially lower transport costs and increase the availability and quality
    of services, both internationally and domestically.

    (b) Privatization of program: (i) In public utilities: To increase the availability of telecommunications,
    water, and electricity; and the efficiency of service providers (ii) In the agro-industrial sector: To
    unleash the sector's potential to produce exports as well as supplies for the domestic market.

    (c) Financial sector: To develop a stable, sound and efficient financial sector, boost public confidence
    in the financial system, and increase its capacity to finance productive economic activity.

    (d) Forestry sector: To promote sustainable exploitation of Cameroon's forests; preserve ecological
    stability; promote economically efficient, high value-added, unsubsidized processing industries; and
    encourage the participation of all stakeholders in forest conservation and management.

3.1.3   The stated objectives were important for the country's economic and social development. The
Credit helped put in place an incentive framework for private sector-led growth, and supported accelerated
growth and poverty reduction by emphasizing long-term competitiveness through transport sector reform,
privatization, deepening of financial sector reform, as well as reforms of regulations and incentives for
sustainable resource use. In addition, to improve governance and reduce poverty, the Credit helped develop
mechanisms for more effective participation by communities and beneficiaries, increased feedback and
accountability to them, and reduced scope for corruption and rent-seeking.

3.1.4   The objectives were consistent with the needs of the Borrower. The project envisioned the
following benefits as providing the main rationale for the reform program: (i) providing the enabling
environment and direct support needed to accelerate growth and reduce poverty; (ii) reducing poverty by
creating jobs, raising incomes, empowering civil society, and allocating resources to those in need; (iii)
improving governance thereby strengthening responses to the needs of the poor; and (iv) reducing
substantially the opportunities and incentives for rent-seeking in restructured institutions (such as the port
authority and privatized enterprises), and enhancing resource mobilization through the verification of
accounts and collection of taxes (in the petroleum and forestry sectors, among others).

3.1.5   The objectives were also timely. Cameroon was considered for a long time as a reluctant reformer.
Even though Cameroon had embarked upon important reforms in the preceding few years, the
implementation of these reforms was not very encouraging. In this context, the Credit provided an umbrella
under which dialogue between the Bank and the Government was strengthened so that there could be



                                                     - 2 -

national ownership of the complex reform agenda.

3.1.6    The program was fully consistent with: (i) the Country Assistance Strategy discussed with the
Executive Directors in February 1996 and subsequently updated and presented to the Board in March
1998; (ii) the Policy Framework Paper prepared jointly by the World Bank, the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) and the Cameroonian authorities; and (iii) the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
approved by the IMF Board in August 1997.

3.1.7    The operation was politically and technically complex. The complexity was due to the large
number of project components and the range of policy and institutional reforms. This can be illustrated by a
few examples. In the transport sector, the port reform involved very detailed actions to be undertaken by
the borrower, some of them requiring high technical capacities (e.g., contracting out of dredging and
towing, berthing and the container terminal operations) as well as the capacity and commitment to
institutional reform. The privatization of SONEL (Société Nationale d'Electricité-National Electricity
Company) was complex because the process involved sector restructuring and establishing a regulatory
agency before SONEL's tender for privatization could be issued. Also, the implementing agency (the
monitoring technical committee, CTS) had to coordinate with a large number of counterparts (from the
Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of Transportation, the technical committee for privatization, the newly
created regulatory agencies, the public utility entities) to push forward the reform agenda.

3.1.8    The operation was very risky due to high vested interests in various sectors. Although there was
political support at a senior level, the commitment at the management level for the implementation of such
strong measures was uneven, except when the deadline for a tranche disbursement was clearly set by the
political leadership. The risk of the operation is illustrated by a few examples: (i) In the port sector, the
liquidation of the National Ports Office of Cameroon (ONPC) took a long time due to difficulties in
obtaining a decree. The Port Authority was clearly a "State within a State" ("Etat dans l'Etat") with
interest that diverged from those of the rest of the economy. Likewise, (ii) In the forest sector, breaking up
the Office National du Développement des Forêts (ONADEF) was extremely difficult, while setting up
institutional mechanisms to ensure effective supervision of the forestry management plan also met with
resistance from various strong vested interests. (iii) The privatization of the utilities companies and
agroindustrial complex (CDC) met with obstructionism on the part of those with vested interest in
continued public sector involvement in these companies. Overall, the reforms supported by SACIII were
very demanding and required considerable efforts from an overburdened national administrative apparatus.

3.1.9    At the time the project was designed, no indicators were set to measure attainment of the
objectives. Indicators were subsequently defined by the country team but benchmarks could not be obtained
in every case given the difficulty to collect data dating back from 1998.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.




                                                       - 3 -

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1    The various components of the project were well related to stated objectives. The components were
also linked to the floating tranches of the Credit (see table below).

            Tranches                 Amount (SDR m)              Date for Disbursement
  - 1 Fixed Tranche
      st.                                   37.00             Sept. 1998 (Effectiveness)
  - 2 Fixed Tranche
      nd.                                   19.28             June 1999

  Forestry Component
  - Floating Tranche                        19.28             Nov. 2002
  Privatization Component
  - 1 Floating Tranche
      st.                                   19.28             June 2000
  - 2 Floating Tranche
      nd.                                   19.28             March 2004

  Transport Component
  - Floating Tranche                        19.28             March 2004

  Note: The fixed tranches covered the sectoral actions that are pre-requisites to the specific sectoral
  actions in latter tranches.
         The financial sector actions were covered in the privatization component.

A summary of how various components of the Credit addressed the identified bottlenecks in the economy
is as follows:

A. Transport Sector

3.3.2    The adjustment program called for regulatory, institutional, and management reforms in the port
sector, maritime transport, road maintenance, and rail transport.

    (a) Ports.

         The objectives were to lower costs and shorten the time required to move goods through the port of
         Douala.

         The Port of Douala (PAD) suffered from two major problems. First, it was the most expensive in
         West Africa with tariffs three times those in Abidjan, and port clearance for imported containers
         taking 20-25 days--significantly longer than elsewhere on the coast. Second, the ONPC had failed
         to dredge the channel on a regular basis for many years so that the channel was two meters
         shallower than it should have been. This limited the size of vessels that could enter Douala, as well
         as the cargoes that could be loaded, with adverse impact on both exports and imports.

         The strategy to improve the performance of the ports system consisted of: (i) breaking up ONPC
         into a National Port Authority (APN) and the four autonomous ports; (ii) preparing a performance
         plan for the Port Authority that included, inter alia, measurable performance indicators and an
         investment plan for lowering costs and port tariffs; (iii) creating port orientation committees in
         each port to ensure consultation on port competitiveness, including tariff setting and investment
         programming; (iv) the transfer to the private sector of all industrial and commercial activities as
         well as superstructure maintenance, and to the extent possible port services; and (v) managerial


                                                      - 4 -

    autonomy to be granted to each port, with APN's role confined to security, environmental
    monitoring and protection as well as management of public port assets.

(b) Maritime Transport.

    The development objective was to introduce competition and lower the costs of international
    maritime transport.

    The cargo-sharing mechanism established under the UNCTAD Maritime Conferences code led to
    excess use of levies by the Cameroon National Shippers Council (CNCC) and artificially
    maintained high maritime rates.

    The strategy was to liberalize the sector as a condition of disbursement of the initial tranche.
    Activity under this sub-component consisted of restructuring the Shippers' Council to promote
    international trade, defend shippers' interests, and obtain revenues from fees instead of taxes.

(c) Roads.

    The main development objective of this sub-component was to lower the cost of road transport and
    improve the quality of related infrastructure. Preventing the further deterioration of the road
    network by improving the quality and efficiency of road maintenance was recognized as essential to
    achieving this objective.

    The poor status of the road network was due to a lack of sustainable financing and ineffective
    management and implementation capacity in the Ministry of Public Works. In addition, the huge
    payment arrears accumulated hampered the development of private sector road maintenance.

    The strategy to alleviate the constraints facing this sector consisted of reorganizing the Ministry of
    Public Works (strengthening its planning and programming capacity while reducing the road
    maintenance staff) and the creation of a Road Fund requiring consultations of road users on the
    spending of user fees. In addition, contractors and communities were to be trained to incorporate
    environmental considerations into road maintenance.

(d) Railways.

    Two main development objectives for the railway sector were to: (i) improve the efficiency,
    sustainability, and quality of rail transport services, which were crucial for domestic agriculture
    (especially cotton and forestry) as well as for trade with Chad; and (ii) eliminate the burden
    REGIFERCAM deficits placed on public finance.

    The limited efficiency of rail transport services, provided by one publicly-owned company,
    REGIFERCAM was imposing significant economic costs and imposing restrictions on the volume
    of traffic especially to and from northern Cameroon.

    A strategy to alleviate constraints consisted of transferring the concession of railway activities to
    the private sector.

(e) Air Transport.




                                                  - 5 -

         The government's development objective for air transport was to increase the availability of
         competitively priced air services, both domestically and internationally, while improving safety
         standards.

         Domestic services were under the de facto monopoly of CAMAIR which were poorly managed and
         went bankrupt. Government has sought to protect CAMAIR at any cost using the regulatory
         framework to that end.

         The strategy consisted in (i) revising the civil aviation code to enforce competition in the sector and
         increase security in air transport; (ii) increasing competition in the sector and auctioning to private
         providers the traffic rights to the 27 international and regional routes not being operated; and (iii)
         privatizing the airline company (CAMAIR) to gain the capital and management expertise needed.

B. Privatization


3.3.3     Efforts to privatize public utilities had two development objectives: improving the availability and
quality of service, and increasing the efficiency of companies with poor financial performance and high
costs. The development objective of the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises was to unleash the
sector's potential to boost exports as well as supplies for the domestic market.

3.3.4    The absence of market driven strategies, political interference, poor management and substantially
reduced investments following the 1986-94 depression led to a deterioration in the delivery and availability
of services from state-owned utility firms. Competition in agro-industrial enterprises was also constrained
by Government policy.

3.3.5    The reform actions included the following:

    ·    For the public utilities (i) submitting to the Parliament new regulations for electricity and
         telecommunications to foster competition and define technical and connectivity standards; (ii)
         making water regulations a part of the concessioning contract to complement the revised water
         code, which mainly addressed issues related to public health; and (iii) creating a multisectoral
         regulatory agency to ensure smooth and fair implementation of these regulations. All these actions
         were to be implemented prior to privatization.
    ·    For the agro-industries, barriers to entry were to be lifted and undue external protection removed
         to increase efficiency and attract new operators, particularly foreign investors with capital and
         production and marketing know-how. This pro-competition reform was meant to be completed
         through the sale of the four largest remaining public enterprises: Société Camerounaise de
         Palmeraies (Cameroon Palm Oil Company - SOCAPALM), Société de Développement Cotonnier
         (Cotton Development Company - SODECOTON), CDC, and the Cameroon Sugar Company
         (CAMSUCO).

3.3.6    The privatization component needed strong political will to move the agenda forward. However,
the political will at the presidential level proved inadequate to overcome the strong inertia for change in the
public service, particularly for the privatization of the water and telecom company. Strong vested interests
within those public enterprises opposed change at every stage of the process. The political economy
considerations were not understood and the implementing agency did not have the political, administrative
and financial capacity to execute this agenda in such a short time frame. Moreover, the preparation for the
privatizations, with clearly spelt out strategies and action plans, was not adequate. This further



                                                       - 6 -

compounded the implementation difficulties, particularly for the agroindustrial complex CDC.

C. Financial sector

3.3.7   The development objective was to build a stable and efficient financial sector, by in particular
consolidating the rehabilitation of commercial banks, and proceeding with financial deepening through the
development of financial intermediation of proximity, reform of the social security, restoration of a sound
insurance industry and development of financial markets together with other BEAC member countries.

3.3.8   The constraints were as follows: the public ownership of some institutions impeded sound
commercial management, non-bank financial intermediaries were in poor financial shape and the insurance
industry was in dire straits. The social security institution was insolvent and illiquid and, as a result,
subscribers were unable to draw benefits.

3.3.9   The strategy included the full liberalization of bank commissions; the privatization of the remaining
public sector bank, Banque Internationale du Cameroun pour I'Epargne et le Commerce (BICEC); and
the privatization of the two insurance companies, Société Camerounaise d'Assurance et de Réassurance
(Insurance Company - SOCAR) and Compagnie Nationale de Réassurance (National Insurance Company
- CNR). The project also included support to the Banking Commission for Central Africa (Commission
Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale) COBAC and Regional Treaty on Insurance (CIMA) in the implementation
of prudential regulation.

3.3.10 The operation did not address the crisis of the social security system.

D. Forestry sector

3.3.11 The development objectives for the forestry component were to promote sustainable exploitation of
Cameroon's forests; preserve ecological stability; promote economically efficient, high value added,
unsubsidized processing industries; and encourage the participation of all stakeholders in forest
conservation and management.

3.3.12 The absence of appropriate institutions for monitoring and oversight over the exploitation of the
forest resources handicapped the rational and sustainable management of the forests. No procedures were
in place for the management of community forests and local populations were not involved in their
management.

3.3.13 Activities in this component consisted of: (i) the establishment of the institutional framework, with
appropriate incentives, for the approval and implementation of forestry management plans, including
monitoring and enforcement mechanisms, and the designation of areas in nonpermanent forests for future
community forests; (ii) the adoption and implementation of a tax reform to reduce dependence on export
taxes as the principal means of recovering resource values (rents), the increase in domestic forest levies and
the strengthening of capacity for collection, and the reduction of subsidies to inefficient domestic
processing; (iii) improving the mechanism for allocating cutting rights and concessions and reducing the
scope for political interference; and (iv) provisions for an independent and transparent validation of auction
outcomes, and the publication of the auction results.

3.3.14 The framework put in place under this component met its stated objective. But, this component had
overestimated the political will to overcome the very strong vested interest, and the technical capacity of the
Ministry of Forestry and Environment to implement envisaged policies.


                                                      - 7 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   There was no official assessment of its quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the operation as well-conceived. As mentioned in
the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy (see para
3.1.6) and government priorities and met the critical needs of Cameroon. During preparation of the Credit,
lessons learned from other earlier projects in the respective sectors in Cameroon were considered and
incorporated into the project design. In particular, the design of the forestry component benefited from the
policy dialogue undertaken over the period 1991-96 on the reform of the forestry code as well as from a
study on fiscal issues. The transport component drew from the recommendations of the Transport Sector
Environmental Assessment carried out under IDA's Transport Sector Project. In the financial sector,
SACII supported a program to strengthen bank regulation and restructure banks. SACIII built on these
achievements of SACII and proceeded with reforms to increase financial deepening. Stakeholder
consultations--except for the privatization component--during project preparation, substantially contributed
to the quality and readiness at entry.

3.5.2   The program recognized and took into account the following three risk factors:

    ·   Macroeconomic Deficiencies. On the macroeconomic front, the main risk was that revenues might
        be less than projected, because of a decline in oil prices and/or mismanagement, which would
        undermine the Government's ability to adequately service its external debt and finance badly
        needed development expenditures. This risk was mitigated by the fact that macroeconomic
        management, which was closely monitored by the IMF, had improved considerably over the two
        years before the program's effectiveness.

    ·   Uncertainty over Government commitment to Reforms. As noted earlier, Cameroon had been a
        reluctant reformer and the commitment to the reform agenda was a source of concern. However, as
        evidenced by the successful implementation of SACII, Government commitment to economic
        reform and poverty reduction was increasing. Moreover, the existing administration had increased
        its strength in Parliament after the elections, and a committed group was leading policy reforms.

    ·   Institutional Weaknesses. The risk of program failure because of inadequate implementation
        capacity was handled by the provision of technical assistance as needed in the context of IDA's
        ongoing technical assistance (TA) operations, or by other donors associated with the program in
        particular France and EU.

3.5.3   However, quality at entry could have been better if the following were recognized during the
preparation of the Credit:

    ·   The operation was broad-ranging, ambitious, and technically and politically complex. This might
        not have been fully appreciated during the preparation stage and thus the initial time horizon of two
        years for implementation was highly optimistic. This was confirmed by the Quality of Supervision
        assessment conducted in October 2002 which noted "the original two-year timeframe was too
        ambitious for the scale of the reforms expected to be accomplished on the privatization front". The
        operation had to be extended four times, resulting in a cumulative extension of three years and
        three months. A realistic timeframe for this operation would have been in the range of four to five


                                                      - 8 -

         years. Another option would have been to support the reform with two or three successive
         adjustment operations.

    ·    At the preparation phase, the assessment made regarding the readiness of the Government to carry
         out the privatization of public enterprises and the prospects for such privatizations was uneven. In
         several cases, good privatization strategies were not yet in place. For example, an in-depth analysis
         of the appropriateness of privatizing the banana crop segment of the agro-industrial complex CDC
         which was under management contract with Del Monte since 1987, could have addressed some of
         the problems encountered during the implementation phase of the reform program.

    ·    The role of the newly created national port agency (APN) was not defined clearly and its mandate
         was not clear. Moreover, APN depended on the autonomous port of Douala (PAD) for financing,
         thereby compromising its independence as a regulator.

    ·    The project should also have focused on strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
         Mines, Water and Energy, which remained weak at the end of the operation. Since the Bank had
         not intervened in the energy sector in Cameroon for fourteen years, it was not sufficiently familiar
         with the sector and a result, this aspect was overlooked during Credit preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    Overall, the outcome of the project objectives is rated satisfactory. Overall macroeconomic
perfomance under SACIII was satisfactory. The macroeconomic environment was stable and the incidence
of poverty fell by over 10 percentage points over the 1996 to 2001 period. The global rating represents the
weighted average of the rating of each component. The outcomes of the project in the transport and forestry
sector as well as in the privatization of public entities (including bank, insurance companies, agro industries
and public utilities) are rated of equal importance. The Credit achieved its major objectives in the transport
and forestry sector. Performance assessment regarding privatization is mixed. The privatization of banking
and insurance institutions resulted in the realization of expected outcomes. Privatization of agro-industries
partially met the targeted objectives. The outcomes envisaged under this sub-component were met for
sugar, palm oil and tea but not for the other crops. By contrast, the privatization of utilities, with the
exception of the two mobile companies in the telecom sector, failed to achieve its objectives. After careful
consideration, it has been assessed that this ICR would rate the outcome of the privatization component as
unsatisfactory.

4.1.2     Macroeconomic Stability. Over the period 1996-2003, Cameroon's macroeconomic performance
was impressive, with average GDP growth of 4.6 percent per year, entailing a steady increase in per capita
GDP of nearly 2 percent per annum. Inflation steadily declined to fall below 1 percent by 2004. The
primary fiscal balance averaged a surplus of 5 percent of GDP during the 2000-04 period. Meanwhile, the
current account deficit declined, reaching 2½ percent of GDP in 2003 despite deteriorating terms of trade.
Cameroon was consistent in repaying its foreign as well as domestic debt. As a result, the ratio of external
debt to GDP had decreased from 77.3% in 2001 to 48.3% in 2003. During the whole period of the
implementation of SACIII (1998-2003), the reviews under the PRGF were satisfactorily completed and the
country was expected to reach the HIPC Completion point during the third quarter of 2004. However, since
the closure of SACIII, the implementation of the PRGF program has run into problems, owing in part to
the deterioration of the financial situation of some public enterprises. As a result, the fifth and sixth reviews
under the PRGF could not be concluded, making it unlikely that the Completion point will be reached
within the time-frame of calendar year 2004 as previously envisaged.



                                                       - 9 -

4.1.3   The rating for the major component of the Credit, provided below, are discussed in the subsequent
paragraphs.

                 Component                                           Rating

                 TRANSPORT                                           S
                 PRIVATIZATION                                       U
                 FINANCIAL SECTOR                                    S
                 FORESTRY                                            S

A. Transport Sector

4.1.4   Development Objectives of the Transport Component (DOs): To substantially lower transport
costs and increase the availability and quality of services, both internationally and domestically.

4.1.5   DOs were met with the exception of air transport.

  (i)   In the road sector, the DOs were met. The coverage, quality, and timeliness of road maintenance
        financed by the Road Fund steadily increased over the last three years. More than 20,000 km of
        roads covering most of the main network received adequate maintenance funding compared with
        less than 10,000 before the road fund was implemented. The improvement has led to a marked
        decrease in transport costs. Transport costs in the main network remained competitive and transit
        time and costs diminished significantly (sometimes by a factor of more than two) in the areas which
        could not be maintained prior to the program. All the new investment/rehabilitation carried out
        since 1996 were allocated adequate funds for maintenance. The level of service in the sector has
        therefore increased.

  (ii)  In the port sector, the DOs were met. Some significant progress had been made to realize reform
        objectives set for this sub-sector. Since the Port of Douala was expected to serve as one of the
        principal gateways to West and Central Africa, reforms in this sector were of major importance.
        Under SACIII, institutional and regulatory reform, privatization of port activities, and the
        rehabilitation of facilities were undertaken, and a single trade processing window was implemented.
        The combined impact of these reforms and activities has been to make the port more efficient and
        operationally focused and has resulted in an increase in the availability and quality of port
        services. Dredging improved the maritime access to the port of Douala (PAD) and reduced the
        dwelling time. For example, the average stay in quay per ship reduced from 3.8 days to 1 day and
        the availability of navigation aids to the access channel doubled (from 50% to 100% in 2003).
        Clearance delays in the PAD had also been reduced. The cost of import container handling had
        dropped by 27% with the concession of the container terminal operation to a private consortium.
        The average time required to move the goods through the PAD had been shortened. On imports, the
        average delay inside the GUCE is now around 5 days. On exports, the average delay is 3.3 days
        but urgent deliveries or perishable goods transit in less than two days.

  (iii) In the maritime sector, the DOs were met. The sector was liberalized by a law passed in
        December 1997, resulting in the removal of the Cameroon National Shippers Council (CNCC) levy
        and had a positive impact on the maritime rates, though this was limited by the relatively small
        number of lines operating to Douala given the small size of this market by international standards.



                                                     - 10 -

         CAMSHIP, the National shipping line, was privatized, and remained one of the only Africa based
         operators in a context where most if not all of the former national shipping lines protected by cargo
         sharing arrangements disappeared (for example in Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal).

  (iv)   In the railway sector, the DOs were met. The rail freight traffic reached and surpassed a level
         of 1.8 million tons per year. Annual positive transfer to government is over 12 million equivalent
         US$3 million for usage fee and over US$9 million in various taxes. It is worth noting that the
         railway company (CAMRAIL) had successfully ensured the shipping of equipment for the
         construction of the Chad/Cameroon Pipeline.

  (v)    In the air transport sector, the DOs were not met. The privatization of the National airline
         CAMAIR was a major element of the reform of the sector. It was handled within the PPCRP
         Project that provided technical assistance to design a privatization strategy but it was never
         implemented. CAMAIR situation was always fragile, though improvement in management was
         noted in the early 2000's when a management team from the private sector, was appointed.
         However, the company pursued an expensive plane leasing policy and besides, was subjected to
         continuous interference from the government, and its finances suffered from untimely payments by
         the government for services rendered. CAMAIR, apart from offering uncertain and poor air
         transport services in Central Africa, also contributed to the weakness of all the associated
         sub-sectors in Cameroon (airports, Civil Aviation).

B. Privatization Sector

4.1.6    Development Objectives (DOs): (i) public utilities: To increase the availability of
telecommunications, water and electricity and the efficiency of service providers, (ii) Agro-industry: To
unleash the sector's potential to produce exports as well as supplies for the domestic market.

4.1.7    This component has been rated as unsatisfactory. The main development objectives summarized
in the attached table are discussed below.




                                                    - 11 -

   Privatization Component                    Outcome        Comments
   Financial Sector
     Banks                                    M et
     Insurance Companies                      M et
   Agro-Industry
     Sugar (SOSUCAM)                          M et
     Palm Oil (SOCAPALM)                      M et
     Tea (CDC)                                Partially met  The company was sold in October 2002. The full
                                                             impact is yet to be achieved.
     Banana (CDC)                             M et           The company was not sold to private operators.
                                                             However, the company is under management contract
                                                             with Del Monte since 1987 which led to significant
                                                             increase in production efficiency. This is a " de facto "
                                                             privatization of the banana crop. But the specificity of
                                                             this situaton failed to be taken into account in the
                                                             preparation stage of the project (see previous section).
                                                             GoC is currently revising its strategy to relaunch the
                                                             privatization of the failed crops and is reviewing the
                                                             juridical nature of its contract with Del Monte.

     Palm Oil/hevea (CDC)                     Not met        No bidder for these crops. A revised strategy for the
                                                             sale of those crops is under preparation.

     Cotton (SODECOTON)                       Not met        The GoC is in the process of designing a strategy to
                                                             launch the privatization or SODECOTON.
   Water                                      Not met        Unsuccessful privatization.
   Telecom                                    Not met        Unsuccessful privatization.
      Mobile (2 companies)                    M et           Successful privatization of the two companies led to
                                                             very significant improvements in service delivery.

      Fix                                     Not met        Unsuccessful privatization.
   Electricity                                Not met        The company was privatized but, exogenous factors
                                                             (successive dry seasons and financial problems of the
                                                             private operator's parent company) have preempted a
                                                             marked improvement in outcomes.


   G L O B A L R A T I N G O F                U
   P R I V A T I Z A T I O N C O M P O N E N T
4.1.8    (i) Telecoms

             § FixedTelecoms

                  The DOs were not met. The company has not yet been privatized and the number of fixed
                  lines per 1,000 habitants remains very low, with 0.84 lines per 1,000 inhabitants versus 0.65
                  in 1998.

             § Mobile

                  The DOs were met. The number of subscribers (prepaid cards and subscriptions) now
                  exceeds 700,000 as compared to less than 3,500 before the privatization process began in
                  1997. The benefits expected under this sub-component, in the form of improved services and
                  lower costs, particularly on international calls, have materialized, thanks to the two private
                  cellular companies operating in Cameroon.

         (ii) Electricity

         The DOs of the privatization, i.e., improved service quality and availability, have not yet been




                                                           - 12 -

        realized despite the privatization of the power company. This situation resulted from the
        deferral of urgent investment programs both during and after the privatization process. Also, the
        supply of electricity in the post privatization period was adversely affected by consecutive years of
        drought, necessitating power shedding throughout the country that caused serious social discomfort
        in the population and hampered production in both the formal (including the aluminum sector) and
        informal sectors. Despite these problems, the price of electricity was regularly increased as agreed
        under the terms of the privatization contract.

        (iii) Water

        The DOs were not met and the situation in the water sector remains quite precarious. The
        negotiations with the sole bidder for the privatization of SNEC failed in September 2003. The
        number of service connections remained very low at 189,000 in 2003 versus 142,500 in 1998, i.e.,
        38% of the urban population is served.

        (iv) Agro Industries

        The DO was only partially met. The successful privatization of the sugar (SOSUCAM) and palm
        oil (SOCAPALM) companies led to an increase in planted surface, yield and production of sugar
        and palm oil. This also led to an increase in employment and contract farming with local
        producers. A strategy to privatize the cotton company has yet to be developed.



                                     Before Privatization                      After Privatization
      SOCAPALM
      Surface Planted              24,000 ha                               27,000 ha in 2002, (+12.5%)
                                                                           including 12,000 ha under contracts with local produce
      Employment                   3,400 agents (including 2,300           5,467 agents (including 4, 000 part-time)
                                 part-time)
      CAMSUCO
      Production                   45,000 tons (Total prod in Cameroon)    130,000 tons (Total )
                                   3,000 tons : CAMSUCO (site Nkoteng)     36,000 tons (first campaign after privatization),
                                                                           99,119 tons in 2002


C. Financial Sector

4.1.9   Development Objectives (DOs): To develop a stable, sound and efficient financial sector, boost
public confidence in the financial sector and increase its capacity to finance productive activity.

4.1.10 As indicated below, the DOs envisaged under this component were satisfactorily met.

    (i) Develop a stable, sound and efficient financial sector:

        ·    SACIII led to increased financial deepening which strengthened GDP growth. The privatization
             of the BICEC (Banque Internationale du Cameroun pour l'Epargne et le Crédit), a public
             financial establishment, completed the restructuring of the banking sector initiated under
             SACII. Since its first year of operations, BICEC has continuously expanded its loan portfolio
             and credit commitment capacity. With 25 branches throughout the country, BICEC has been
             playing a special role in Cameroon as a retail bank catering for medium-and large-scale



                                                     - 13 -

            customers. BICEC has also developed collaborative partnership with micro-finance
            institutions.

         ·  All large banks have become solvent, liquid and profitable. The banking system has been
            supervised by COBAC, an independent regional Banking Commission (supervisory and
            regulatory body) that operated in the six CEMAC countries. With qualified and dedicated
            staff, COBAC has provided adequate bank regulation, based on international banking
            standards. Six of the eight rated banks in Cameroon were categorized as having a solid and/or
            good financial situation. The banking regulator proposed measures to be taken by the few
            financial institutions that did not meet all prudential requirements. Regional regulation had also
            been introduced for micro-finance institutions.

         ·  The insurance sector was also successfully restructured. The liquidation of the national
            reinsurance company --an enterprise that had little economic justification-- and the dismantling
            of the legal cession which imposed a high cost on insurance companies, had a positive impact
            on the insurance industry. The new insurance company, Chanas, the outcome of the split of
            the former public insurance company SOCAR, doubled its premium and net income within
            three years. More generally, total premia collected by the insurance sector were increased by
            26% from 2000 to 2001, reflecting the improved health of the industry.

         ·  Cameroon's financial sector, with a wide range of financial institutions and products, including
            a regional money market and a secondary market for some government securities, is the most
            diversified in the sub-region. BEAC had started the implementation of a modern payment
            system.

    (ii) Boost public confidence in the financial system:

         ·  The restructuring of the banking and insurance institutions led to an improvement in the quality
            and availability of financial services. The level of financial deepening, though remaining low
            (19% of GDP), had gained 5 points over the period 1998-2002. Savings deposited with
            commercial banks were well secured and depositors had easy and immediate access to their
            funds.

    (iii) Increase its capacity to finance productive activity:

         ·  Credit to Private sector: Commercial banks contributed more to the financing of economic
            activity but largely extended short-term credits and limited their credit exposure to small
            businesses. Bank credit to the private sector exceeded credit to the public sector.
            Government-directed credit was eliminated. Rates were market-driven. An estimated 50% of
            the CEMAC micro-financed establishments are in Cameroon.

D. Forestry Sector

4.1.11 Development Objectives (DOs): To promote sustainable exploitation of Cameroon's forests,
preserve ecological stability, promote economically efficient, high value added, and unsubsidized
processing industries and encourage all stakeholders to participate in forest conservation and
management.




                                                     - 14 -

4.1.12 As indicated below, the DOs were met.

    (i) To promote sustainable exploitation of Cameroon's forests:

         ·    A regulatory framework has been adopted to design, approve and monitor sustainable
              management of forestry resources. In this context, a competitive auction system was
              established, tested and has proven an effective and transparent mechanism for the award of
              commercial forest logging rights. An independent observer is selected to certify the consistency
              of the selection committee's work and deliberations with established rules, regulations and the
              bidding documentation to ensure transparency. A supervisory system has been set up to
              oversee forest management planning and implementation and logging operations. This involves
              independent monitoring of the Government control operations and forest law enforcement, with
              periodic interpretations of satellite imagery and field inspections. A Legal Advisory Unit had
              been created in the Ministry of Environment and Forestry to follow-up on litigation-related
              issues with forest law offenders.

    (ii) To preserve ecological stability:

          ·   Protected areas (exceeding 10% of Cameroon's territory) were clearly identified in an official
              zoning plan and have been under various stages of development. An integrated system of
              regulations and economic instruments for sustainable management of production forests have
              been set up and are being enforced in collaboration with private sector companies, local
              communities and other actors in this domain.

    (iii) To promote economically efficient, high value added, and unsubsidized processing industries:

          ·   During the period 1998-2002, the forestry-based industry went through a transformation
              characterized by a dramatic switch from log-based exports to exports of processed products
              (exports went down from 1.3 million to 130,000 cubic meters). The harvested industrial
              volume decreased by an estimated of 35%, which contributed to reducing over-exploitation of
              the resource base. The declared value of exports decreased by 26%, but the shift to local
              processing resulted in a dramatic 58% increase in employment which showed strong vitality in
              the sector. The number of active forest companies started to shrink, as old fashioned logging
              firms could not meet the challenge posed by the new fiscal and environmental obligations; and
              other companies whose supply depended largely on illegal sources reduced the scale of their
              operations sold or closed down their businesses. The sector transformation was still an ongoing
              process.

    (iv) To encourage all stakeholders to participate in forest conservation and management:

4.1.13 The operation introduced many important reforms which included:

     · Collaborative programs involving the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MINEF) and
          Ministry of Finance (MINFIB) were designed to enhance forest revenue collection, improve
          services to companies and reduce fiscal fraud. Half of the revenues from RFA (tax-based on area)
          was dedicated to forest councils and neighboring local communities. Thus, fiscal revenues
          distributed to local communities increased from negligible levels to a total US$54 million for the
          January 2000 - June 2004 period. The changes in the revenue distribution system were formalized



                                                      - 15 -

         by the implementation of the July 2000 Finance law in the form of a "Fonds de Perequation".
         While the regulatory text establishing this system was still pending, the use of funds distributed to
         local governing bodies was audited regularly (two audits completed, one being completed). The
         establishment of a competitive system of allocation export quotas for limited volumes of logs was
         also pending.

     · A system has been put in place to allow for a community-based management of natural resources.
         Representing a major departure from existing practices in Central Africa, communities could
         decide to establish and manage forests located on community lands and exercise the right to object
         to the allocation of these forests for commercial logging and thus reserve them as community
         forests. In September 2003, communities reserved rights on 60 forests among the 143 proposed for
         commercial allocation.

     · Transparency in the management of the forest sector has improved through: (a) regular systematic
         publications in the national press of lists of valid forest rights and right holders; (b) the publication
         of the reports of the independent observers nationally and internationally; (c) the creation and
         update of an official ledger of companies and individuals infringing the forest law (sommier des
         infractions); and (d) the periodic publication of forest crimes under litigation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The list of conditionalities of the credit and their status of implementation are detailed in Annex 8.

A. Transport Sector


4.2.1    (i) Road sector

         ·    The creation of an autonomous Road Fund in 1998 has proven broadly satisfactory as it has
              helped secure road maintenance resources through a levy on road transport fuel. The fund now
              brings more than $30 million to road maintenance every year against less than US$10 million
              before. Other benefits have been the reduced delays in payments to private contractors,
              improved programming of road maintenance operations and revitalized private construction
              firms.

         (ii) Port sector

         ·    The National Port Authority of Cameroon (ONPC) that managed the ports, was replaced by a
              regulatory agency, the National Port Authority (APN), and four autonomous ports. The
              management of the Port of Douala (PAD), the major port in Cameroon has greatly improved
              but the other management of the other autonomous ports has not become fully operational. In
              addition, the regulatory authority of the APN needs to be more clearly spelt out. The PAD has
              been substantially rehabilitated, with work on the dredging the access channels and improved
              maintenance of the channels, piers and basins through contracts awarded under competitive
              bidding processes. The land infrastructures have also been satisfactorily maintained by the
              PAD. In recognition of the institutional reforms and improvements in the infrastructure, two
              bilateral donors (France and Germany) provided loans to the PAD late in 2002 for the
              rehabilitation of most of the berths.

         ·    All industrial and commercial activities of the Port of Douala had been transferred to the


                                                       - 16 -

           private sector. With respect to the Douala Container terminal (DCT), the PAD worked out a
           interim arrangement to manage the cranes with several stevedores, pending the transfer to the
           private sector, through a concession arrangement. A process for its transfer should be carried
           out on a competitive bidding basis. The concessioning process for DCT, carried out on a
           competitive basis, was concluded in July 2004.

       ·   To speed up transit time and improve transparency in the clearance process, the government
           set up the Guichet Unique du Commerce Extérieur (GUCE), a single window for services to
           importers and exporters and created a facilitation committee chaired by the private sector to
           closely monitor the Port's efficiency and its clearance operations. The ongoing computerization
           of the GUCE should help to reduce clearance delays. In addition, an action plan had been
           prepared to tackle the delays attributable to exporters/importers who use the port as a storage
           area or took inordinate time to raise the funds needed to cover customs duties.

      (iii) Railways

       ·   Following the concessioning of railways operations to CAMRAIL, the World Bank granted an
           IDA credit to the GoC to renew worn-out tracks and rehabilitate major infrastructure to
           improve efficiency as well as safety of services. This credit was on-lent to CAMRAIL at
           different terms and conditions. The program of renewal and rehabilitation was proceeding
           satisfactorily. The concessionaire also ran an environmental mitigation program aiming at
           curbing the trade in bushmeat on the train and cleaning up polluted railway workshops.

      (iv) Air transport

       ·   Following the recommendation of a joint WB/IFC mission in August 2003, the GoC had
           recently decided on a "scission liquidation" of Cameroon Airlines (CAMAIR) involving the
           replacement of CAMAIR by a new company with private capital. This new company would
           not be burdened by CAMAIR's liabilities. The World Bank/IFC is continuing to assist the
           Government in this process.

B. Privatization

4.2.2  (i) Telecoms

    § FixedTelecoms

       The bidding process for the fixed network of CAMTEL was declared unsuccessful in April 2002
       following the failure of the negotiations with the winning and first runner-up bidders. The GoC still
       intends to privatize CAMTEL but as a first step has agreed with CAMTEL management on a
       framework to manage and improve telecommunication services in the interim period prior to
       privatization. CAMTEL had elaborated a business plan while the GoC is in the process of hiring
       an investment bank to assist to relaunch the privatization process.

    § Mobile

       Two privately-owned mobile phone companies - one                  spun-off from the state-owned
       telecommunications company (CAMTEL), and the other created following the award of the second
       cellular license - have become fully operational.


                                                   - 17 -

    (ii) Electricity

         The privatization of SONEL was completed in July 2001. After privatization, SONEL encountered
         some performance difficulties due to a number of both external and internal factors, including poor
         water management before privatization that was compounded by a drought after the privatization,
         and management and financial issues within the new firm, AES SONEL which hampered the
         takeover. The result was the worsening of the energy shortages in Cameroon in the aftermath of
         the privatization.

         To address this energy crisis, the AES Sonel planned to develop a thermal plant in 2004 and to
         improve the distribution network with financing by a syndicate of development finance institutions
         led by International Financial Corporation (IFC). For the medium term, GoC planned a gas fired
         power plant to be built by 2007 under a form of public private partnership, and to undertake the
         preparatory studies for the highly controversial Lom Pangar Hydro Project.

    (iii) Water

         The negotiations with the sole bidder for the privatization of SNEC failed in September 2003 and
         the GoC has adopted a new approach and plan for the privatization of water services. This
         involves: (i) the liquidation of the public company SNEC, (ii) the identification of a priority
         investment action for rehabilitation and extension during the initial years and finding resources
         (internal and external) to carry out the program, (iii) a new institutional framework with a new
         public entity to manage water services (management company and "société de patrimoine") and
         (iv) a financial framework for funding the sector. The GoC had completed the audit of the
         financial accounts of the company and had launched an international bidding process to recruit a
         firm of experts that would help in implementing the above mentioned measures.

    (iv) Agro Industries

         The privatizations of the sugar (SOSUCAM) and palm oil (SOCAPALM) companies were
         successful and the tea estates were sold in October 2002. The three remaining crop units--palm oil,
         rubber and bananas--received no bids. The privatization was hampered by inadequate preparation
         and a poor strategy.

         Prior to 1998, SODECOTON was sold to a group of private investors on a non competitive basis
         and this sale was later cancelled by the Government. This action was contested by the group of
         private investors and they sued the state. As a result, the privatization process was suspended.
         However, the court decided in favor of the State in 2002. The Government is reassessing and
         updating its privatization strategy for SODECOTON.

C. Financial Sector

4.2.3
    ·    Banking sector. Under SACIII, the BICIC, with a negative net worth of CFAF 21 billion, was
         split into a healthy bank (BICEC) and a liquidation structure and, subsequently, BICEC was
         privatized. After the split, loan portfolio BICEC was only 40% of the portfolio of BICIC as 60%
         of the portfolio of BICIC was non-performing. Since 1997, the first year of BICEC's operations,
         its loan portfolio has expanded continuously and it has been in compliance with all prudential


                                                     - 18 -

         ratios.

    ·    Insurance sector. The National reinsurance company (CNR) was liquidated, following
         unsuccessful attempts at privatization. SOCAR, a public insurance company and the largest one,
         was split into a liquidation structure and a healthy structure that was acquired by a Cameroon
         company following an international call for bids. The new company, Chanas, has doubled its
         premium and net income within three years.

D. Forestry Sector

4.2.4    Reforms of the forestry sector were introduced in the July 2000 Finance Law. A new system of
competitive bidding that included the involvement of an independent observer had been in place since June
1999. A national strategy for the allocation of logging rights, adopted in 1999, has guided the expansion of
areas under legal, competitively-awarded forest concessions and the withdrawal of logging rights of various
types obtained under questionable conditions. The six major reforms adopted in the framework of the July
2000 Finance Law involved: (a) mandatory adoption of public bidding and establishment of floor prices in
the award of forest concessions; (b) new modalities for taxation of processed and unprocessed timber; (c)
clarification of taxation regime for wood processed in free zones (Points francs industriels); (d) mandatory
adoption and modalities of payment of performance guarantees for forest concession holders; (e)
establishment of a system allowing for competitive allocation of log export quotas for limited quantities of
unprocessed wood; and (f) establishment of a system for improving equity in the distribution of fiscal
revenues intended for local communities (system still being set up).

4.2.5    A Forestry Tax Revenue Enhancement Program was adopted in June 1999, and has continued to
operate under the joint responsibility of the Ministries in charge of Forests and Finance. Under the
program, the Ministry of Finance recorded a growth of forest fiscal revenues, excluding export taxes. In
addition, since the year 2000, 50% of the area-fees levied on concessions has been transferred to local
communities and governing bodies.

4.2.6    New rules for design, implementation and oversight of forest management plans were adopted on
May 25, 2001 in the form of Arrêté 222/MINEF. These regulations provided a well-integrated framework
of mandatory measures to guide private companies and other actors involved in sustainable management of
production forests. A performance guarantee system was adopted as part of the Finance Law June 30,
2000, and Decree 20011033/PM November 27, 2001, and was currently operational, with FCFA 15 billion
in guarantee secured since year 2001.

4.2.7    Supervision of the implementation of forest management plans has been through collaborative
efforts between the government and two specialized organizations of high international standing. The first
was with the World Resources Institute-Global Forest Watch (through tele-detection). The second
collaborative agreement was with Global Witness (GW) (through joint field mission with the GoC). Arrêté
518/MINEF/CAB now enables local communities to object to the allocation of commercial logging rights
on lands where they exercise traditional user rights or have other plausible claims, and give them
pre-emptive right to create a formal community forest on such lands.

4.2.8    The status, mandate and financing mechanisms of the forestry agency, Office National de
Développement des Forêts (ONADEF) were revised. The new forestry agency ANAFOR was made much
smaller than its predecessor and its mandate focused on promotion of community- and privately-managed
plantations. This reform led to a broader institutional review covering practically all national institutions in
the forestry sector and providing a sector-wide institutional strengthening strategy that will be supported by


                                                    - 19 -

the proposed PSFE investment program.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1    The institutional development impact is rated Substantial.

4.5.2    The main forms of institutional development impact by the various measures undertaken under the
reform program were identified as follows: First, reforms had visible effects in the crucial area of
governance, in terms of promoting transparency and accountability in the management of public resources.
Second, reforms resulted in the institutionalization of good practice regulatory frameworks in key sectors of
the economy. Third, the reforms undertaken had been instrumental to the establishment of new development
institutions, in areas where institutional gaps were apparent and critical. The institution building impact
had been one of the major achievements of the reform process during and after SACIII. Specific examples
of how the reform program had contributed to institutional development in Cameroon are summarized
below.

Forestry Sector

4.5.3    Far reaching reforms along with their institutional impact had been described in-depth in
paragraphs 4.2.4 - 4.2.8. These forestry reforms had helped to bring more transparency in the system of
allocation of forestry exploitation rights and to improve monitoring of forestry management plans by
putting in place collaborative mechanisms between the GoC and international NGOs. The reforms had also
helped institutionalize a new mechanism for the equitable distribution of forestry-based revenue with local
forestry-based communities. In terms of institution-building impact, it should be noted that reforms by way
of organizational restructuring has led to the dismantling of the former ONADEF agency and creation of a
new forestry agency ANAFOR with a more focused mandate.

Transport Sector

4.5.4    The reform program demonstrated impact both in the port as well as in the road sector. On the port
subsector, the impact has been significant, notably on the arrangements to promote efficiency of services of
the Port of Douala, the partnerships with the private sector through the facilitation committee, and the
implementation of the single trade facilitating window ("Guichet Unique du Commerce Extérieur") GUCE
that contributed to the reduction of clearance delays. However, the definition of the role of the APN, the
regulatory authority, remained unclear. On the road subsector, the Road Fund has proved to be an effective
body that would be further strengthened through amendment of its legal status.

Telecom Sector

4.5.5    A regulatory authority, ART, independent of the telecommunications operator, was established and
is thereby compliant on this dimension with WTO requirements. ART is also separate, in a legal and
functional sense, from MINPOSTEL and has its own sources of finance (which provides it with financial
independence). ART has been an effective regulator as evidenced by its role in the issuance of a new licence
(cahier de charges) listing the obligations and rights of CAMTEL, and its relationship with ART as well



                                                     - 20 -

as in the approval process for the first stage in the tariff re-balancing process. However, there has been, as
with all new regulators, a need for capacity building.

Energy Sector

4.5.6    The institutional impact of the project was significant, with the establishment of an Independent
Regulator for the power sector, ARSEL. The regulator is now effective, although further reinforcement and
additional financial resources will be needed for the Agency to be able to operate effectively in the medium
term. The effective role of ARSEL for power tariff revision is worth mentioning, as it is one of the few
agencies in the region which has applied consistently the price revision mechanisms and has obtained
government and private sector concurrence to the proposed increases. The project was also successful in
establishing the Rural Electrification Agency (AER). The agency is now operational, but regulatory issues
have prevented it from fully achieving its stated objectives.

Financial Sector

4.5.7    Regarding the financial sector, the banking reforms undertaken under SACIII has resulted in the
achievement of financial deepening, restoration of investor confidence in the banking system and creation of
a sound insurance sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1    The major factors that affected the realization of expected         project outcomes under SACIII
included changes in world market conditions and prices, changes in climate, as well as performance of
contractors and consultants. The privatization component was the one most adversely affected by these
exogenous factors.

5.1.2    Change in world market and prices. In the late 1990s, while the program was under preparation,
the international market for private investment in infrastructure projects in developing countries was
booming, resulting in increased investor interest in the acquisition of state-owned enterprises in Cameroon.
However, as the government was slow in making decisions to move forward with the privatization agenda,
the market had virtually collapsed during the implementation phase. This downturn caused delays in the
privatization program and adversely affected outcomes in the privatization of the telephone company,
CAMTEL and the water company SNEC. The decline in primary commodity prices also hampered the
privatization of the agroindustries of the CDC.

5.1.3    Drought and serious financial problems in the private investor' group impeded an accelerated
improvement in the service delivery in the electricity sector. Even though it was successfully privatized,
the private operator failed to meet its contractual obligations due to the difficulties in mobilizing financial
resources for its operations and capital investments. This situation was due to the business difficulties
encountered by the parent company, AES Corp, and an environment of worldwide downward trend in
private investment in emerging markets after 2001. These financial difficulties of AES SONEL were
compounded by a drought which reduced electricity generation and resulted in significant power outages.

5.1.4    The poor performance of the consultant hired to advise the government on the privatization of the
agroindustrial complex (CDC) contributed to the failure of the privatization process. The study undertaken
to develop a strategy failed to clarify several key issues including land tenure questions; the future status
of the "residual CDC" the so-called entity which encompassed social activities and infrastructure projects
in the region connected to the CDC; and the juridical nature of the partnership between Del Monte and the



                                                     - 21 -

GoC for the banana crops. These issues were not adequately addressed in the privatization strategy.
Furthermore, the privatization process lacked a well designed communication campaign to reassure the
personnel.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1    In the area of privatization, transactions for SNEC, CDC, SONEL and CAMTEL suffered from
significant delays due in large part to poor process management by the authorities, obstructionism on the
part of those with a vested interest in continued public sector involvement in these companies and lack of a
strong political commitment to address these obstacles.

    (i)   SNEC. In the water sector, the privatization of SNEC was slowed down on account of opposition
          to privatization from the company's management, especially its managing director that delayed the
          call for tenders and the invitation to the successful bidder to negotiate with SNEC. Negotiations
          with the winning bidder turned out to be difficult due to the lack of cooperation on the part of
          SNEC's managing director. Subsequently, the GoC terminated the appointment of the managing
          director and appointed a provisional administrator to actively pursue the negotiations. However,
          at that stage, the successful bidder was no longer interested in the deal.

    (ii) SONEL. Preparation of the privatization of SONEL had also encountered some delays on account
          of opposition within the company. In addition, the Ministry of Energy was not prepared for
          public-private partnership.

    (iii) CAMTEL. Initially the winning bidder offered a very attractive price but subsequent to this, a
          fiscal audit showed substantial fiscal liability by the Government towards CAMTEL. The Bank
          advised the government to reduce the price of the transaction but the Government did not react for
          a long time. Meanwhile, the successful bidder was purchased by another group. However, when
          that group won a lucrative contract in Algeria, the bidder lost interest in CAMTEL. The second
          bidder which was a consortium, was invited to negotiate, but the members of the consortium failed
          to reach agreement besides failing to deposit the caution in due time. As a result, the bidding
          process was declared unsuccessful.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    In May 2001, there were some changes in the personnel within the Ministry of Finance. The
Minister of Finance and his Secretary General (also president of the CTS - the implementation agency),
who had been the key leaders in the design and implementation of macroeconomic and structural reforms
since 1997, were removed from their posts. A new President of the CTS was appointed. The latter did not
have the same leadership qualities, which undoubtedly led to a considerable slowdown in implementation
and monitoring of the reform process.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable.

5.5 Implementation and Disbursement delays

5.5.1    Delays in the implementation of SACIII were substantial. The projected number of years estimated
in the PAD from loan signing to final disbursement was of two and half years (from August 8, 2000 to
December 31, 2000) but ended up being five and half years (until March 2004). The project was extended
four times for respectively one year and a half, one year, six months and three months. However, when the
last extension was granted on December 2003, all conditionalities had been met and this extension was



                                                     - 22 -

mainly to give the team time to process the tranche release memo.

5.5.2    The major reasons for delays included the overly ambitious initial timetable, inadequate
preparation of some aspects of the privatization component, unexpected technical difficulties in the ports
sector and delays in the selection of some staff/consultants attributable to the Bank and to the Government.

5.5.3    On the Government side. Delays on the privatization side which adversely impact the outcome of
the privatization component of the project has been described in the above paragraphs. Other management
problems subject to government control delayed the implementation of reforms in the forestry and port
sectors but with no significant impact on the final output. (i) In the port sector, the lack of clear leadership
of the component on the government side (apart from the Port managing director himself) accounted for the
slow implementation. Problems emerged between PAD and Ministry of Transport on the question of the
privatization of the container terminal. This significantly slowed down the process but the container
terminal was successfully privatized in July 2004. (ii) In the forestry sector, there were delays in
implementing the measures necessary to obtain the release of the forestry tranche, in particular the
restructuring of the forestry agency (ONADEF) in line with the recommendations of the institutional audit.
Also, the preparation and signature of contracts with the NGOs to be involved in the supervision of forestry
management plans took much longer time than initially expected. This was due to strong resistance on the
part of the former ONADEF managing director. Also, due to strong vested interests, there were initial
difficulties in the design of contracts with Global Witness, the independent observer in charge of
supervising the management plan, and later on collaboration problem between the various actors. However,
the collaboration between this NGO and the GoC has since improved considerably.

5.5.4    On the Bank side. Supervision of various components of the project was not smooth during the
entire project implementation period. Supervision of the transport sector component was compromised by
the difficulty of finding a replacement for the transport specialist in the Resident Mission who was
transferred to another duty station in April 1999. The post remained vacant for about two years. For the
port sub sector, the change in the team's composition in mid-2001 interrupted the ongoing policy dialogue
between the Bank and the Government, a process that was fully restored in 2003.

5.5.5    In addition, the PPPCRP project which contributed to financing the implementation of SACIII
reforms (privatization and port reforms) encountered numerous difficulties that necessitated a full mid-term
review in 2002. This exercise could not be concluded for over one year because of the urgent need to
address fiduciary issues and restructure the PPPCRP project. This led to significant delays in obtaining
no-objections. Furthermore, the financial specialist previously based in the country office who was
monitoring the privatization process on a routine basis had departed.

5.5.6    The implementation of the HIPC initiative, the preparation of the interim and full PRSPs, which
were not anticipated at the time the project was signed in 1999, overloaded the government's capacity and
contributed to the delay in implementing the privatization program.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1    The sustainability of the project was rated as likely.

Macroeconomic Stability

6.1.2    Cameroon has compiled a good record of strong economic growth and macroeconomic stability
under Bank-supported reform programs. The recent deterioration of the financial conditions of some public



                                                    - 23 -

enterprises has led to some slippages in public finance performance. At the request of the Government, the
World Bank is providing assistance to the Government to address these issues. Provided that these
problems are resolutely addressed, the medium-term prospects for Cameroon's economic performance
would remain quite favorable and, despite the continued decline in oil output, non-oil GDP is expected to
continue growing at an estimated 5 percent. At the same time, the annual rate of inflation would be
contained below 3 percent, while the budget surplus would be strengthened as new revenue-boosting
measures are progressively phased-in.

Transport

6.1.3    Roads: The Government has remained committed to improving road maintenance through the
Road Fund and in this respect, the GoC had just submitted an amendment to the legal status of the Road
Fund that will strengthen its status and capacity. For maintaining the quality of roads, expanding of the
road maintenance coverage would be necessary, requiring further actions to increase the revenues of the
Road Fund.

6.1.4    Port: The sustainability of the port reforms is likely. Important investments have been made to
rehabilitate the port. The new institutional framework including the transfer of many operations to the
private sector, the introduction of a single trade processing window (GUCE), and more focused
management teams for the Port of Douala , has brought about some improvements in the operations of the
ports and is likely to be sustained. These reforms have the support of the Government, the donors and the
users of the ports. Nevertheless, there remains the need to continue to strengthen port management,
particularly in the three smaller ports, and for the government to fulfill its financial obligations to the Port
Authority.

6.1.5    Railways: CAMRAIL operations remained profitable but there is a need for track replacement to
curb derailments. Track replacement is very expensive and the lifespan of the new track is forty years,
double the duration of the concession. Under the railways concession, the replacement of fixed assets
remained the responsibility of the government while the concessionaire would pay a fee for the usage of the
track. The GoC and the concessional donors involved in the financing of the concession had been recently
contacted by CAMRAIL to provide additional soft financing to support further track renewal and so far
there was no objection in principle.

Privatization

6.1.6    SONEL: Sustainability of the privatization of this electricity utility is likely provided that the
government is able to meet its commitments for funding capital investments in the sector and the new firm
AES Sonel is able to overcome its initial financial difficulties and make the necessary timely investments as
originally envisaged. Furthermore, the capacity of the regulator, ARSEL, as well as the Rural
Electrification Agency SER, would need to be reinforced and the funding improved. The Ministry of
Energy would need to be strengthened through a redefinition of its role and strengthening of its staffing.
Future investment projects in power generation in the sector would have to be developed under
private-public partnership, thus the GoC needs to strengthen its capacity to work in this framework.

6.1.7    CAMTEL/SNEC/CDC: Development objectives had not yet been fulfilled. The government was
determined to continue its privatization efforts and was implementing action plans elaborated with the
Bank's assistance (Cf. more details in Section 4.2.5). To this end, the Bank would be providing technical
assistance in this process through the PPPCRP.



                                                     - 24 -

Forest Sector

6.1.8   Under SACIII, Cameroon created a functional body of policies, legislation, regulations and
partnerships for supporting forest management and conservation. These arrangements remain fragile.
Detailed official reports on forestry management are still to be published, but the indications of a
three-month mission by the Independent Observer (The international NGO Global Witness) that ended in
August 2004, were that their collaboration on routine operations with Government forest control teams had
greatly improved, that positive behavioral changes in the forest sector were taking root, and that serious
cases of illegal logging appear to become the exception rather than the norm.

6.1.9   To ensure implementation of the new policies and the sustainability of improvements, Cameroon
would need to invest in strengthening government and non-governmental institutions concerned with
management of forests as well as those with oversight responsibilities. The support of the World Bank and
other partners would continue to be essential.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1   The implementation of SACIII reforms would continue to be monitored by IDA in the framework
of the HIPC Initiative. In particular, the satisfactory implementation of SACIII reforms constituted one of
the benchmarks for the achievement of the HIPC Completion Point. Also, the Public Private Partnership
Project (PPPCRP) was currently being restructured and extended to assist the GoC in implementing the
unfinished privatization agenda and address issues not previously foreseen in PPPCRP, related to the
electrical sector. The railways project was providing support to help the railways company face technical
and managerial challenges as well as improvement in environmental activities. The next adjustment
operation in the forestry sector (PSFE) as well as the future PRSC which would focus on both private
sector and governance issues as indicated in the CAS, would help further strengthen and/or deepen most of
the previous achievements of reforms supported by SACIII.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1   The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. First, the identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in
Cameroon in the context of the government's development priorities and the Bank's country assistance
strategy. The Bank mobilized, from its large pool of technical experts, a diversified team of specialized
professionals needed to support the preparation of the adjustment operation and to put in place a sound
design framework for its implementation. Second, during preparation and appraisal, the Bank worked to
incorporate all major relevant factors (i.e., technical, financial, economic, and institutional as well as
procurement and financial management issues) into the design of the program. The transport component
benefited greatly from lessons learned from the preparation of the Transport Sector Project (TSP) and the
Transport Sector TA project. Moreover, during appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and
benefits. The Bank maintained consistently cordial working relations with the Borrower during preparation
and appraisal of the program. Stakeholder consultations were useful and instrumental in forging a strong
program ownership sentiment that proved quite valuable at the implementation stage. In hindsight, the
privatization component would have significantly benefited from more direct involvement of sector
specialists especially in the water sector.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1   The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory albeit with
some caveats on the privatization component. Supervision received sufficient budget and staff resources,



                                                     - 25 -

and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. In retrospect, a more direct involvement
of sector specialists in the energy, telecoms and water sectors would have been advisable. Over the six
years of project implementation, there were, on average, four to six supervision missions per year. Review
teams included specialists in transport, privatization, forestry, management and institutional issues, MIS,
financial management, and procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project
components. The forestry and port sectors were closely monitored. However, as the execution period was
extended, with the complex tasks outstanding, such as the privatization component of the Container
Terminal, and the unanticipated relaunching of privatization of selected utilities, the budget for the
supervision did not match the needs to deal with these complex tasks. The Bank's supervision of
privatization of the water component was less than satisfactory partly due to the lack of a sector specialist
on the supervision team until 2003, when negotiations had already collapsed. The quality of the Bank's
supervision in the telecommunications sector was also weak because supervision tended to be erratic.

7.2.2   Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and
underscoring benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to
project execution problems and facilitated remedial measures in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank
procedures. The Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in
terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever program
implementation delays occurred, the Bank's task team was able to promptly define concrete steps and
timetable for streamlining actions and putting the project back on track. The Bank paid sufficient attention
to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice coupled with the follow-up on agreed
actions were adequate. Credit covenants were enforced effectively and appropriate corrective measures
were taken promptly.

7.2.3   With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in Cameroon, the Bank was
able to provide quick responses to identified problems and accelerated follow-up actions. The staff also
showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation. They worked closely with the
government and the implementing agencies, and provided extensive assistance, such as reviewing legal
documents, and providing technical advice.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1   Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory during the critical phases of the project cycle,
namely: project preparation, appraisal and implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1   The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the implementation of policy and institutional reforms
envisaged in the program and adequately participated in the conceptualization of project design and its
major aspects (i.e., the program's technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological dimensions). Both Government officials and staff of the implementing agencies, at the central
and state levels worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual and fully cooperative basis.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1   The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. However, its performance varied
from component to component.

7.5.2   In general, with some exceptions, the government maintained a high level of commitment
throughout the implementation period of this adjustment operation. The Ministries responsible for the



                                                    - 26 -

overall implementation of their respective sectors, consisted of senior policy makers and experienced
managers who readily took corrective measures in response to perceived implementation problems and
outstanding operational issues. Appropriate levels of reviews and approvals were usually in place; financial
accountability and follow-up were observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were
incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review.

7.5.3     On the other hand, the Government's commitment to the privatizations was not forceful. This
rather cautious attitude seemed to encourage anti-reform officials to delay implementation efforts. The
Government was also slow in forging the necessary consensus on planned reforms with critical constituency
groups before embarking on the implementation process. The Bank teams did not encourage the
government to undertake a pro-reform campaign to inspire support for the reform program. After an
initial "inertia phase" in the course of the negotiations, the GoC endorsed the privatization initiative in the
water and telecommunications sectors. However at that time, the international market for private
investment in public physical infrastructure had collapsed and the selected bidders were no longer interested
in pursuing the privatization transaction.

7.5.4     As a whole, while the privatization of SNEC and CAMTEL were not completed, to a large extent,
because of lack of will on the part of the authorities, a large number of privatization were completed in
many different sectors (ranging from agro-industries to transport and finance sector):          2nd cellular,
SOCAPALM, CAMSUCO, SONEL, BICEC, CNR, SOCAR, REGIFERCAM, and Douala Terminal a
Container (not originally envisaged in as a conditionality of the credit) to name the main ones.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1     The performance of the Government implementation agency, CTS, was unsatisfactory. Problems
emerged after 2001 when there was a change in the managers of the CTS. The agency lacked the leadership
and failed to adequately coordinate efforts to move forward with the agenda. Also, the agency was
overburdened with the monitoring of the PRGF and failed to closely monitor performance under the project.
Thereafter, on several occasions, the Minister of Economy had to get involved and take the lead in the
discussions to remove bottlenecks and move reforms ahead. This has been the case especially regarding the
port reform as well as the forestry sector.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1     The government successfully implemented very large, politically difficult and complex reforms
ranging from breaking monopolies (e.g., the former large forestry agency -ONADEF- and the port
company - ONPC) to setting-up new institutions (e.g., regulatory agencies in the telecom, electricity and
port sectors and the new forestry agency -ANAFOR-, the single trade window (GUCE)) and introducing a
more transparent system to improve governance (e.g., NGOs to monitor the implementation of management
plans in the forestry sector, independent observer for the allocation of logging rights, a facilitation
committee chaired by the private sector to monitor the efficiency of port operations etc.). The disappointing
performance of the monitoring technical committee (CTS) was fully compensated by direct involvement of
the sectoral ministries with whom the Bank Staff was directly monitoring the project. On the whole, the
overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory, notwithstanding the fact that the implementation
performance of some sub-components, particularly the privatization component, was less than satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

General Lessons

8.1       The formulation of a realistic implementation timeframe in the program design is a



                                                      - 27 -

       prerequisite to a smooth and successful program execution. For example, a short time
       framework may create serious hurdles for achieving the desired goals of a reform process.

8.2    In countries with weak capacities for implementing privatization schemes, the success of
       adjustment operations are easily compromised by the lack of technical assistance for project
       implementation. The lesson learned in such circumstances is that the privatization components of
       adjustment operation should not be undertaken unless there is a parallel TA or investment
       operation that can provide the resources and expertise needed. However, if the TA does not
       perform well, it puts the adjustment process at risk. The commencement of implementation and
       availability of needed skills should be properly synchronized; In other words, they should go well
       together, hand in hand. For example, problems encountered by the TA project (PPPCRP) has been
       very costly for this adjustment operation.

8.3    A serious commitment by the Bank to supervision is important. For difficult and complex
       adjustment operations, it is important to have the budgetary allocations to support program
       supervision and in particular, to have supervision capacity in the field. In SACIII, inadequate
       supervision of the privatization component due to inadequate budget and field capacity contributed
       to the poor progress in some sub-components.

8.4    Some important factors for the success of a reform operation have been identified as: (i) the need
       for a concise articulation of the expected outcomes; (ii) the need for flexibility and adaptability in
       the execution of adjustment operations, particularly in the face of changing situations in both
       external and internal environments.

8.5    It is difficult for the Bank to promote reforms in a country where the pro-reform constituency is
       weak or non-existent. The Bank was able to work with a core team of highly motivated people,
       including senior government officials, who were convinced that the planned reforms were good for
       the country but there was no evidence of strong support outside this core team. A project may start
       with a strong political commitment and ownership. However, in the course of implementation,
       strong vested interests could take advantage of the turnover of the officials in the reform team to
       delay or reverse the course of action

Sectoral Lessons

A. Transport Sector

8.6    Sub-sectors components of the SAC like road and railways benefited from the support of
       concurrent IDA-funded sector projects whereas sub-sectors components like port and air transport
       did not and it translated into a less smooth implementation and reduced outcome.

8.7    Even in an adjustment context, the leverage of the Bank is rather limited when there is no direct
       investment funded by an IDA credit. As far as transport sector components were concerned in the
       SACIII, the Bank was to judge whether the processes were acceptable based on the Borrower's
       environmental practices rather than against the Bank's proven and accepted procurement and
       safeguards guidelines. This issue affected the Bank's work very badly during the privatization of
       the container terminal. If the Bank supports a reform program, either through a classic investment
       project or an adjustment operation, our guidelines should apply all the same.




                                                    - 28 -

B. Privatization

8.8     Market Conditions. Privatization transactions need to take into account market conditions and
        recognize that the need to move rapidly when market conditions are favorable. This important
        lesson has emerged from the experience with regard to three public enterprises SNEC, CAMTEL
        and CDC.

8.9     Timely Investments. Delays in privatization may have an adverse impact on the capital stock and
        service provision of the enterprise. This because there is often limited new investment in a firm that
        is on the privatization block. For example, in the case of SONEL, CAMTEL, and SNEC, no
        investments were made for three years due to their impending privatization and the quality of
        services deteriorated considerably. The privatization strategy could include a program of
        investments to maintain the capital stock as well as services.

8.10    Alternative Plans. The privatization strategies should discuss alternative privatization actions in
        case planned privatization measures fail.

8.11    Using Sector Specialists. It is important to have an in-depth involvement of sector specialists right
        from the beginning of a privatization process.

C. Forest Sector

8.12    The Credit has demonstrated that a well-designed structural adjustment operation can be an
        effective instrument for forestry reforms. An adjustment operation would put emphasis on policies
        and healthy institutions and the elimination of distortions, which would pave the way for the
        efficient and effective implementation of forestry programs.

8.13    The participatory and collaborative manner in which reforms were designed and debated brought
        into sharp focus the fact that the complexity of forest sector reforms require a clear understanding
        of issues and options by all stakeholders and that high-level political involvement and backing are
        absolutely essential.

8.14    The creation of appropriate regulatory, institutional and legal frameworks and of attractive
        incentive systems are critical for achieving desired goals. For example, in order to promote
        compliance, it is important to create a mechanism for rewarding those who comply with laws and
        penalize those who infringe them.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
--

(b) Cofinanciers:
--

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
--

10. Additional Information



                                                    - 29 -

--




      - 30 -

    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

I. Forestry Sector

       Project
    Development         Outcome/Impact Indicator                    Baseline                    End of Project
      Objective                                                  (August 1998)

  OD1: Promote sustainable exploitation of Cameroon's forest.
                    Indicator 1: Regulatory framework      No regulatory text.        Arrêté 222/A/MINEF 25 mai
                    to design, approve, monitor                                       2001, with technical appendices.
                    sustainable management in
                    productive forests.
                    Indicator 2 : Sustainable              No production forest under Amongst the 43 concessions
                    management of productive forests.      management plans (PA).     allocated before 2001:
                                                                                      - 22 have an approved management plan;
                                                                                      - 14 PAs will be re-submitted to
                                                                                      the next interministerial
                                                                                      commission in December2004 ;
                                                                                      - 7 concessions have some
                                                                                      problems.
                    Indicator 3: Transparent auction of    Concession are allocated   Competitive award -with
                    concession titles.                     on a gré à gré basis.      participation of an independent
                                                                                      observer- of :
                                                                                      72 UFAs à 5,025,800ha,
                                                                                      (32 remains to be attributed)
                                                                                      71 VCs à 345,300 ha
                                                                                      (Source: GFW/WRI - MINEF).
                    Indicator 4: Supervision of            Weak control capacity.     Regular control missions on field
                    management plans.                                                 with the continuous presence of
                                                                                      an Independent Observer
                                                                                      Convention with the WRI/GFW
                                                                                      on remote sensing
                                                                                      Creation of a legal cell in the
                                                                                      MINEF to follow up the
                                                                                      contentious


    Progress in Forest Management
    Production                        Plans Initiated over                            Plans Completed over
                 Management Plans                                     Plans                                     Number of Plans
   Forests under                        Total Concession                                Total Concession
                   Submitted                                  Completed/Approved                            submitted and Approved
    Concessions                              Estate                                          Estate
      Mill. ha      Mill. ha                   %                    Mill. ha                  %                    40 submitted
        5.0            3.4                    67%                     1.662                   32%                  23 approved




                                                          - 31 -

     Project
  Development              Outcome/Impact Indicator                      Baseline                      End of Project
    Objective                                                         (August 1998)

OD 2: Preserve ecological stability
                     Indicator: % of protected area.                                        12% of Cameroon territory.
OD 3: Promote economically efficient, high value added, unsubsidized processing areas
Source: CERNA, October 2002
                     Indicator 1: Economic value of wood                                    Observations of the same sample
                     processing sector.                                                     of enterprises showed that during
                                                                                            the period between 1998 and 2001
                                                                                            consumption of raw material
                                                                                            decreased by 7%, while sales and
                                                                                            employment both grew by more
                                                                                            than 50%..
                     Indicator 2: Employment in wood                                        During the 1998-2001 period, the
                     processing sector..                                                    employment in wood processing
                                                                                            sector increased by 48%.
                     Indicator 3: Transformation degree in    Mainly 1st transformation     Diversification in transformation
                     wood processing units.                   units (sawmills) in 1998.     and global increase of the
                                                                                            rendement matière RM in all
                                                                                            existing units.
                                                                                            Creation of one déroulage unit
                                                                                            and one tranchage unit (with entry
                                                                                            of foreign investors) during the
                                                                                            1998-2001 period.
                     Indicator 4: Clear fiscal environment    Mixed fiscal regime (zones    Clarification of taxation regime
                     of wood processing sector .              franches et zones droit       for wood processed in free zones
                                                              commun) with substantial      (Sortie Point franc industriel).
                                                              fiscal leakages.


OD 4: Encourage all stakeholders to participate in forest conservation and management
                     Indicator 1: Impacts on local            The RFA (area taxation) is    The RFA represents half of the
                     populations revenues                     distributed between State     total forest taxes (i.e. 13.4 billions
                                                              (50%), forest councils (40%)  FCFA).
                                                              and neighboring local         à From 2000 to 2004, 28.4
                                                              communities (10%).            billions FCFA have been
                                                                                            distributed to forest councils and
                                                              In 1998, the tax regime is    neighboring local communities.
                                                              mostly based on export taxes  The July 2000 Finance Law
                                                              (75%) and the RFA             established a system for
                                                              represents 2.3 billions FCFA. improving equity in the
                                                                                            distribution of fiscal revenues at
                                                                                            the national level (Fonds de
                                                                                            Péréquation).
                                                                                            à the regulatory text to establish
                                                                                            this system is still pending.
                     Indicator 2: Community-based                                           Arrêté 518/MINEF/CAB enables
                     management of natural resources.                                       the local communities to object to
                                                                                            the allocation of commercial
                                                                                            logging and reserve community
                                                                                            forests.
                                                                                            In May 2004, 55 community
                                                                                            forests (229,600 ha) have a
                                                                                            Simple Management Plan (SMP)
                                                                                            approved by MINEF and are
                                                                                            under management convention.
                     Indicator 3: Transparency in forest                                    Regular publication in national
                     sector.                                                                press of :
                                                                                            - the list of valid forest titles
                                                                                            - the list of contentious.
                                                                                            Publication of the IO reports.




                                                          - 32 -

II. Financial Sector
        Project
    Development              Outcome/Impact Indicator                     Baseline                  End of Project
       Objective                                                      (August 1998)

 OD 1: Develop a stable, sound and efficient financial sector
 Government            Reduction in the number of financial    BICEC, CNR, SOCAR and      BICEC and SOCAR have been
 withdraws from the    institutions owned by the State.        Crédit Foncier, publicly   privatized; CNR was liquidated.
 capital of financial                                          owned.
 institutions.

 Improve regulatory    Tightening of regulation.               Financial cooperatives     A Prime Ministerial Decree of
 framework for non                                             operate in a regulatory    September 1998, sets the
 bank financial                                                vacuum.                    regulatory framework for financial
 intermediaries.                                                                          cooperatives. By end of projects
                                                                                          all operating financial
                                                                                          cooperatives have been licensed;
                                                                                          more than 300 have been removed
                                                                                          from the roster at the Ministry of
                                                                                          Agriculture .
 New institutions and                                                                     New banks have entered the
 instruments are                                                                          market: Citibank, UBC, Ecobank;
 developed.                                                                               a stock exchange have been
                                                                                          created (although not yet
                                                                                          operational). Launch of the
                                                                                          modernization process of the
                                                                                          payment system (real time
                                                                                          settlement for large transactions;
                                                                                          electronic clearing).
 OD 2: Boost public confidence in the financial system
 Institutions meet                                                                        With the exception of a small
 prudential                                                                               bank, all banks are considered in
 regulation.                                                                              good standing by the regional
                                                                                          banking commission. The postal
                                                                                          saving bank (Caisse d'Epargne
                                                                                          Postale) continues to encounter
                                                                                          financial difficulties.
 Improvement in the                                                                       Banks have modernized their
 quality of service.                                                                      outlets; reduction in bank margins.
 OD 3: Increase its capacity to finance productive activity
 Improved access to                                                                       With the cleaning up of the banks'
 credit.                                                                                  balance sheets, these institutions
                                                                                          have recovered their capacity to
                                                                                          provide financing to the economy.
                                                                                          The reduction in the non-
                                                                                          performing portfolio has resulted
                                                                                          in the reduction of bank margins.




                                                           - 33 -

III. Transport Sector
     Project
  Development            Outcome/Impact Indicator                       Baseline                       End of Project
    Objective                                                        (August 1998)

OD 1: Lower transport costs, both internationally and domestically
                     Cost of container transport from         Dla/Yde FCFA                 Dla/Yde FCFA 80       Availability
                     Douala to Yaoundé and from Douala        Dla/BG FCFA                  /TKm                  of data not
Road                 to Bangui.                                                            Dla/BG FCFA           obvious at
                                                                                                                 all..
                     Cost of import container handling        FCFA 240.000.                FCFA 179.600           Cost have
                     (20').                                                                (since July 2004)     decreased by
                                                                                                                 27% after the
                                                                                                                 completion of
Port                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                 concessioning
                                                                                                                 of the Douala
                                                                                                                 Terminal a
                                                                                                                 Container.
                     Reduce burden on Public Finance of       Regifercam was de facto      Around $12 Million    Eliminate all
                     transport sector.                        exonerated of Fees and       are transferred by    transfers to
                                                              Taxes payment.               Camrail to            rail subsector
                                                                                           GOC/year              except for
                                                                                           (including Fees and   compensation
                                                                                           Taxes ).              for services
Railways                                                                                                         of a Non ­
                                                                                                                 Commercial
                                                                                                                 obligation
                                                                                                                 nature,
                                                                                                                 reverse trend
                                                                                                                 to set inflow.
OD 2: Increase the availability and quality of services, both internationally and domestically
                     Funds allocated and disbursed for        4 billion FCFA.              21 billion FCFA
                     road maintenance.                                                     (2001-2002)

Road                                                                                       13 billion for the
                                                                                           second half of 2002
                                                                                           and
                                                                                           26 billion in 2003.
                     Average stay in Quay per ship.           3.85 days.                   1.00 day (2003)       12 hours.
                     Availability of navigation aids to the   Less than 50% of equipment   100% in operations    Consistent
Port                 access channel.                          in operations.               in day time, more     with
                                                                                           than 80% at night.    international
                                                                                                                 standards.

                     Improve efficiency and sustainability    Freight traffic : 1.282.000  Increased freight in  Increase the
                     of railway through private sector.       tons.                        end June 2003:        rail freight
                                                                                           4.6%.                 traffic to
                                                                                                                 previous level
Railways                                                                                                         by 2001;
                                                                                                                 increasing
                                                                                                                 1.7% /year
                                                                                                                 thereafter.




                                                            - 34 -

IV. Privatization
      Project
   Development         Outcome/Impact Indicator                    Baseline           End of Project
     Objective                                                  (August 1998)

 OD 1: Increase the availability of telecommunications and the efficiency of service providers
                                                                                                                -
 Fix                Number of fixed line per 100                     0.65             0.84 (Sept 2003)  1.6 by end 2004
                    inhabitants.
 Mobile             Number of mobile line per 100                     0.1            5.13 (June 2003)    6 by end 2004
                    inhabitants.
 Internet Users     Number of fial-up Internet users                 2000                  10000         20000 by end 2004
 OD 2: Increase the availability of water and the efficiency of service providers
                    Availability Indicators
                    Number of service connections                   142 500                     189 000
                    Urban population served by                                                    37.9%

 SNEC               connections
                    Efficiency indicators                                                                       -
                    Number of clients per employee                    106                           110
                    Unaccounted-for water (%)                        46%
                    Water losses: m3 per day and per                  31
                    km of network
 OD 3: Increase the availability of electricity and the efficiency of service providers
                    Availability Indicators
                    Total unserved energy                   7.7 (in 1998)           213.7 (in 2003)
                    Number of consumer-days of
                    power outages
 AES SONEL          delay between time of request for
                    connections and actual connection                                                           -

                    Efficiency indicators
                    Number of clients per employee          116 (in 1998)           147 (in 2003)
                    Grams of fuel per kWh thermal           335 (in 2000)           284 in (2003)

 CDC                                                                                Only the tea crop           -
                                                                                    has been privatized
 SOCAPALM           Surface planted                         24000 ha (just before   27000 ha (2002)
                                                            privatization)          (+12.5%)
                                                                                    including 12000 ha
                                                                                    under contracts
                                                                                    with local                  -
                                                                                    producers
                    Employment                              3400 agents             5467 agents
                                                            (including 2300 part    (including 4000
                                                            time)                   part time)
 CAMSUCO            Production (tons)

                    · Total in Cameroon                     45000 Tons              130000 Tons

                    · CAMSUCO (site Nkoteng)                3000 Tons               36000 Tons (first           -
                                                                                    campaign after
                                                                                    privatization),
                                                                                    99119 Tons in
                                                                                    2002




                                                       - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                       US$ million  US$ million
First Fixed Tranche                                       50.00         50.00            100
Second Fixed Tranche                                      26.00         26.00            100
First Privatization Floating Tranche                      26.00         26.00            100
Forestry Floating Tranche                                 26.00         26.00            100
Second Privatization Floating Tranche                     26.00         26.00            100
Transport Floating Tranche                                26.00         26.00            100
First Supplemental                                                      13.40
Second Supplemental                                                     10.90
Third Supplemental                                                        8.20
Fourth Supplemental                                                       6.30
Fifth Supplemental                                                        3.70

Total Baseline Cost                                      180.00        222.50
                          Total Project Costs            180.00        222.50
                    Total Financing Required             180.00        222.50




                                                - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              April-May 1998            9    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                             FORESTRY (4), TRANSPORT
                                             (3), PRIVATIZATION (1)
                                             FINANCIAL (1) MACRO (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May 22-26, 1998           8    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                             FORESTRY (4),
                                             TRANSPORT (3),
                                             PRIVATIZATION (1)
                                             FINANCIAL (1) LEGAL(1)

 Supervision

              11/29/1998               10    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             ECONOMICS (1);
                                             PRIVATIZATION/FINANCE
                                             (1); PRIVATIZATION (1);
                                             TELECOM (2); TRANSPORT
                                             (1); PORT (1); ROADS (1);
                                             FOREST (1)
              02/19/1999               10    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             PRIVATIZATION/FINANCE
                                             (1); POVERTY (1);
                                             PRIVATISATION (1);
                                             ECONOMICS (1); DEBT &
                                             FINANCES (1); FORESTRY
                                             (1); ROADS & PORT (1);
                                             ROADS (1); PUBLIC
                                             EXPENDITURES (1)
              05/18/1999                5    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             ECONOMICS (1); FINANCE
                                             (1); TRANSPORT (1);
                                             FORESTRY (1)
              11/21/1999               10    ECONOMIST (2); FINANCE &         S               S
                                             PRIVATIZATIO (1);
                                             FORESTRY (1); EDUCATION
                                             (1); PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR (1);
                                             TELECOMMUNICATION, Y2K
                                             (1); PORT SECTOR (1); ROAD
                                             MAINTENANCE (1)
              05/24/2000                7    OVERALL LEADERSHIP (1);          S               S
                                             PRIVATIZATION AND PORT
                                             (1); PORT (2); FORESTRY (1);
                                             HEALTH (1); SOCIAL




                                              - 38 -

                 SECTORS (1)
12/13/2000    10 TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                 TRANSPORT (1); FORESTRY
                 (2); PRIVATIZATION/PORT
                 (1); PRIVAT. AND FINANCE
                 (1); MACRO/POVERTY (1);
                 PORT (3)
06/18/2001    10 LEAD ECONOMIST (1);         S    S
                 MACROECONOMIST (1);
                 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (2);
                 TRANPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 FORESTRY SPECIALIST (2);
                 PRIVATIZATION (2);
                 LAYWER (1)
06/18/2001    9  MISSION LEADER (1);         U    U
                 MACRO AND POVERTY (1);
                 GOVERNANCE (1);
                 FORESTRY (2);
                 TRANSPORT/PORT (1); PORT
                 (1); PRIVATIZATION (1);
                 PORT/PUBLIC FINANCE (1)
11/16/2002    4  MISSION LEADER (1);         S    S
                 FORESTRY (1);
                 PORT (1);
                 PRIVATIZATION (1).
04/10/2003    11 MISSION LEADER (1);         S    S
                 MACRO ECONOMIST (1)
                 GOVERNANCE (1)
                 FORESTRY (3)
                 PORT (2)
                 PRIVATIZATION (1)
                 PORT/PUBLIC FINANCE (1)
                 TRANSPORT (1)
May 2003      2  WATER SPECIALIST (1)        S    S
                 RESIDENT ECONOMIST (1)
July 2003     11 SECTOR DIRECTOR (1);        S    S
                 COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1)
                 INFRASTRUCTURE ADVISOR
                 (1);
                 MINING MANAGER (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT SPE. (1);
                 ENERGY SPECIALIST (1);
                 INVESTMENT OFFICER (IMF)
                 (2);
                 TTL/CT ECONOMIST (1)
                 RESIDENT ECONOMIST (1)
                 RESIDENT
                 REPRESENTATIVE (1)

Sept. 2003    8  TTL (1)                     S    S
                 FINANCE (3)
                 FORESTRY (1)
                 WATER (1)



                 - 39 -

                                               PORT (1)
                                               PRIVATIZATION (1)
               Nov. 2003                   2   TTL (1);                           S    S
                                               PORT (1)
               Jan. 2004                   4   TTL (1);                           S    S
                                               PORT (1);
                                               FORESTRY (1);
                                               PRIVATIZATION (1)
                                                                                  S    S
               Also, refer to PSRs
               rel to PPPCRP for
               SPN of
               Privatization.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   --                            --
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        --                            --
  Supervision                            245.42                    1,099,478.38
  Total




                                                - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Report and Recommendation of the President for Cameroon for a Third Structural Adjustment Credit,
   dated June 3, 1998 (Report No. P-7244-CM).




                                               - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Cameroon: Structural Adjustment Credit III - Summary of
Conditionalities

    Table: Cameroon: Structural Adjustment Credit ­ Summary of Conditionalities


  SUMMARY OF CONDITIONALITIES                                                           Status of
                                                                                   Implementation
  I. CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION
  A. Transport
       · Port sector: Adoption of a port sector reform plan and detailed action  Completed.
         program aiming at improving the performance and competitiveness of
         Cameroonian ports, especially the Port of Douala;
       · Road maintenance: Presentation to the National Assembly of a draft      Completed
         Budget Law for 1998-99, acceptable to IDA as regards sources of and
         mechanisms for financing of the Road Fund (i.e., road user charges).
  B. Privatization
       · Publication of the tender document for the privatization of             Completed.
         SOCAPALM, CAMSUCO and SNEC: and
       · Invitation issued to designated strategic investor in the railway       Completed
         concession company to finalize the concession agreement.
  C. Forestry
       · Annulation of those provisional concessions adjudicated in
         October/November 1997, for which the winners have not signed a
         provisional agreement or paid financial guarantees/deposits in
         accordance with the Forestry Code and its implementing regulations.
       · Confirmation of Government's willingness to: (i) initiate, no later
         than end-June, a joint review with IDA of the 26 concessions whose
         adjudication was notified in late-1997; (ii) take corresponding
         corrective measures as necessary; and (iii) grant new concessions
         and/or annual harvesting permits (ventes de coupe) on the basis of the
         results and recommendations of the joint review.
  II. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
  A. Macroeconomic Framework
       · Consistency of the macroeconomic policy framework with the              Completed
         objectives of the program on the basis of indicators agreed with IDA
         (paragraph 20 of the Letter of Development Policy).
  B. Transport
       · Road maintenance: publication of a decree, acceptable in form and       Completed
         substance to IDA, defining the organization and function of the Road
         Fund.
  C. Financial Sector
       · Publication of a decree subjecting all financial and savings            Completed
         cooperatives to COBAC prudential rules and the establishment of new
         ones to an agreement issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance
         after approval (avis conforme) by COBAG.
  III. BEFORE RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE
  A. Transport
       · Promulgation of the required laws and their implementation decrees      Completed
         which have the effect of: (a) establishing a National Port Authority
         entrusted exclusively with security, police and environmental control
         and protection functions (fonctions régaliennes) and the management
         of public port assets; (b) permitting the autonomous management of
         each port, the transfer of industrial and commercial operations and
         superstructure maintenance to the private sector; and the
         establishment of Consultative Port Orientation Committees with a
         majority of port users; (c) making provision for adequate transitional
         arrangements with respect to the above.




                                                       - 44 -

B. Privatization
    · Adoption of a privatization strategy for electricity and                 Completed.
      telecommunications satisfactory to the Association and within said
      strategy, adoption and promulgation of required laws and
      implementation decrees in form and substance satisfactory to the
      Association; and
    · Completion of all necessary legal action to merge INTELCAM and           Completed.
      the commercial activities of the Department of Telecommunications
      within the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications into a
      telecommunications company established under the Cameroonian law
      (CAMTEL).
C. Forestry
    · Adoption of regulations (i) defining detailed revised selection criteria Completed.
      for the award of forestry concessions and annual harvesting permits
      (ventes de coupe) and (ii) providing for a clear validation mechanism
      of the adjudication process of the awards by an independent observer,
      selected in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
    · Definition of a strategy satisfactory to the Association, for the        Completed.
      apportionment of areas which may be awarded as concessions, taking
      into account requirements for sustainable forestry land-use
      management; and
    · Implementation of a forestry tax revenue-enhancement program, in         Completed
      form and substance satisfactory to the Association, aimed at
      improving the assessment and recovery of forestry tax (stumpage fee
      and forestry royalty).
IV. BEFORE RELEASE OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR FLOATING
TRANCHE
The Port Sector
    · Completion of institutional and regulatory reform measures related to    Completed.
      the port sector;
    · With respect to the port of Douala, completion of the transfer to the    Completed. The
      private sector of all commercial and industrial activities (warehousing, Government decided, after
      stevedoring, freight-forwarding, consignment) as well as the             consultations with IDA, to
      following port services (maintenance of access of superstructure,        let the PAD be responsible
      towing, piloting, berthing, ice manufacturing, maintenance of            for operating the piloting
      maritime navigational aids), on a competitive bidding basis, in          and navigation aids, given
      accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; and          their safety and security
                                                                               implications

    · Realization of progress satisfactory to the Association to achieve on    Completed. The clearance
      average, for a period of three consecutive months, the following         time for imports attributed
      performance indicators for port clearance of containerized               to the PAD and related
      merchandise in the port of Douala: seven working days for imports        administrative activities
      and two working days for exports.                                        has been under seven days
                                                                               for the last ten months.
                                                                               The average transit time
                                                                               inside the export process is
                                                                               around three days but less
                                                                               than two days for all
                                                                               perishable goods and
                                                                               urgent deliveries.




                                                    - 45 -

V. BEFORE RELEASE OF THE FIRST PRIVATIZATION FLOATING
TRANCHE
    · Issuance of the invitation to the successful bidders for the tenders for Completed.
      the privatization of BICEC, CAMSUCO, the second mobile telephone
      license operator, SNEC, SOCAPALM and SOCAR, respectively to
      enter into negotiations.
VI. BEFORE RELEASE OF THE SECOND PRIVATIZATION
FLOATING TRANCHE
    · Issuance of the invitation to the most successful bidders for the        Partially completed.
      tenders for the privatization of CAMTEL, CDC, CNR and SONEL,             CDC : the privatization of
      respectively to enter into negotiations.                                 all CDC activities could
                                                                               not be completed as no
                                                                               bidders made offers for
                                                                               three of the four crops. The
                                                                               government is relaunching
                                                                               a new bidding process.
                                                                               CNR: The change to
                                                                               liquidation, from the
                                                                               originally envisioned
                                                                               strategy of privatization,
                                                                               the basis of the formulation
                                                                               of the conditionality, has
                                                                               nevertheless fulfilled the
                                                                               intent of the required
                                                                               action.
VII. BEFORE RELEASE OF HE FORESTRY SECTOR FLOATING
TRANCHE
    · Publication in the Official Gazette (Journal Officiel) of a regulatory   Completed.
      text, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, governing
      the procedures for the approval and monitoring of land-use
      management plans.
    · Establishment of a guarantee system to ensure compliance with land-      Completed.
      use management plans, satisfactory to the Association;
    · Award, on the basis of international competitive bidding, of contracts   Completed.
      to one or more private sector operators for the supervision of the
      implementation of land-use management plans and for the
      reinforcement of MINEF's capacity in this area;
    · Completion of a technical independent audit of the forestry sector to
      assess its economic and tax potential;                                   Completed.
    · Submission to the National Assembly of reforms, satisfactory to the
      Association, concerning industrialization and forestry taxation on the   Completed.
      basis of the results and recommendations of the above mentioned
      audit;
    · Selection of areas to be reserved as community forests, in form and      Completed.
      substance satisfactory to the Association; and
    · Revision of ONADEF's statutes, in order to clarify its mandate and       Completed.

      sources of financing, in form and substance satisfactory to the
      Association.




                                                    - 46 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution



Letter transmitted to GOC on November 26, 2003 and November 24, 2004 requesting their input to the
ICR. No response to-date.




                                               - 47 -

- 48 -

