Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3102-2 CM (Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3102-2 CM (Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement, dated  June 28, 2000 between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) dated August 3, 1998 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the structural adjustment program as described in Recital (A) of the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into the Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement dated January 25, 1999, whereby additional assistance 
was made available to the Borrower for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Program during its execution by increasing the amount 
made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 8,400,000);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: 
(a)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (z) by a semicolon and adding 
the word "and" after such semicolon ; and
(b)
adding the following paragraph (aa) reading:
"(aa)  ‘Second Amending Agreement’ means the Second Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated August 3, 1998."
Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to 
read:
"Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty-one 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 151,800,000) (the 
Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred thirty-three million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 133,500,000) (the Initial Financing); (b) an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,900,000) (the First Additional Financing); and 
(c) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,400,000) (the Second 
Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03.  Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "cancelled" the following proviso 
reading:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (A) the First 
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement; and (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from 
a date 
sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04.  The following paragraph (e) is added at the end of Section 2.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"(e)
After a date twelve months (or such later date as the Association 
shall establish and promptly notify to the Borrower) from the date of the 
Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account 
in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second 
Additional Financing.  At any time after such date, the Association may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional 
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
Section 1.05.  In Category (3), First Privatization Support Floating Tranche, 
set forth in paragraph 1 of the table 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the figure of  "19,280,000" is amended to read: "27,680,000".
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01.  This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower that this Second Amending Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03.  This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect 
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.04.  If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section.  If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Crecy Tawah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
