Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3102-1 CM (Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 25, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3102-1 CM (Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement, dated January 25, 1999 between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) dated August 3, 1998 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the structural adjustment program as described in Recital (A) of the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Program during its execution by increasing the amount 
made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to nine million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 9,900,000);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(a)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (y) by a semicolon and 
adding the word "and" after such semicolon ; and
(b)
adding the following paragraph (z) reading:
Page  2
"(z)
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and 
the 
Association, dated August 3, 1998."
Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to 
read:
"Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
forty-three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
143,400,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty-three million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 133,500,000) (the Initial Financing); and 
(b) an 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million nine 
hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,900,000) (the Additional 
Financing)."
Section 1.03.  Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "cancelled" the following proviso:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.04.  The following paragraph (d) is added at the end of Section 2.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"(d)
After a date twelve months (or such later date as the Association 
shall establish and promptly notify to the Borrower) from the date of the 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional 
Financing.  At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the 
Credit Account or any part thereof."
Section 1.05.  In Category (1), First Tranche, set forth in paragraph 1 of the 
table 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the figure of " 37,100,000" 
is amended to read: "47,000,000".
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01.  This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
Page  3
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jerome Mendouga
Authorized Representative
  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
