                                  Republic of Cameroon
               Third Structural   Adjustment  Credit (Credit No. 3102~CM)
                Release of the Second Privatization  Support Floating Tranche -
                                 Waiver of Two Conditions
                                            and
                   Release of the Transport Support Floating Tranche -
                             Partial Waiver of One Condition

                                Tranche Release Document



I. BACKGROUND

1. In June 1998, IDA approved the Third Structural          Adjustment   Credit (SAC III).
Its primary objectives were to help improve Cameroon's competitiveness through support
for:   (a) completing the privatization program, especially with regard to public utilities,
agricultural parastatals, and the financial   sector; (b) improving    management in the
forestry sector, with a view to enhancing the sustainable development of this important
resource; and (c) improving the efficiency of transportation services by reforming the
transport sector.

2        SAC III is a broad-ranging adjustment operation, supporting significant reforms
in the forestry sector, the transport sector, as well as a major privatization program of
state-owned enterprises and services provided by state agencies in many sectors--
transport, communications, electricity, water and financial services. Of the six tranches
of SAC III, two are "fixed" and four "floating".   The first of the two cross-sectoral fixed
tranches was released in September 1998 and the second in June 1999.              The first
privatization support floating tranche was released in June 2000. Further tranche releases
were delayed as program implementation slowed from July 2001 to June 2002 because
some of the proposed sectoral reforms turned out to be more complicated than expected.
Furthermore, investor interest in some state enterprises to be privatized (fixed telephone,
primary commodity producers) waned due to global developments such as the rise of the
mobile telecommunications and the decline in primary commodity prices. Governance
problems prevailing in Cameroon, which the adjustment program has helped to address,
also contributed to slowing the reform process.         However, performance has been
improving    since June 2002, leading notably to the release of the forestry tranche in
November 2002.

II. RECENT      POLITICAL      AND ECONOMIC        DEVELOPMENTS          AND PROSPECTS

Political and Economic Developments

3.       The political situation remains stable.  The legislative elections in June 2003
strengthened the control of the country by President Biya's Party, RDPC (R~ssembZeme~t
Dkmocratique du People Camerounais). Presidential elections are expected in October
2004.

                                            -2-


4       Macroeconomic performance has been satisfactory, although the fiscal situation
needs careful management as oil revenues are declining.      Real GDP growth in 2003 is
estimated at 4.2 percent, slightly lower than projected, mainly due to the adverse impact
of the recurrent electricity shortage. The 12-month average inflation rate declined to 2.8
percent at end-December 2002 (from 4.5 percent at end-June 2002), reflecting improved
food supplies. This trend continued during the first semester of 2003 and the inflation
rate is estimated at 1.2 percent for 2003. In 2002, the primary and overall fiscal surpluses
were 5.0 percent and 1.3 percent of GDP        respectively, exceeding their targets. This
outcome was the result of higher-than-projected oil revenue due to higher world oil
prices, and to lower public spending on investment. In 2003, the Government targets for
primary and overall fiscal surpluses were 5.7 percent and 1.7 percent of GDP respectively
and an external current account deficit of 3.1 percent of GDP.

5       The second PRGF program has been on track since the country reached the
decision point in October 2000. The timetable for the fourth review slipped somewhat
relative to initial  expectations.   The reasons were largely technical, linked to the
implementation of the integrated financial management system and the transition towards
the new fiscal year that matches the calendar year as of January 2003. As a result, the
Government requested that the period of the PRGF arrangement be extended through
December 20, 2004. The IMF Board concluded the fourth PRGF review on December
17, 2003.

6       The Boards of the INIF and the Bank discussed the full PRSP on July 28 and
July 31, 2003 respectively.    The PRSP, the product of a broad-based consultative and
participatory process, was based on a detailed poverty profile, the integration of sectoral
strategies within a coherent, long-term vision to diversify the economy and to reduce
poverty, and a credible macroeconomic framework.        It provides an ambitious medium-
term strategy for diversifying the economy and accelerating growth in order to reduce
poverty.    Agriculture  will continue to drive the economy and support broader rural
development. The diversification will be towards a more dynamic industrial sector and
high--value service activities. The central scenario projects steadily rising GDP growth,
reaching 6 percent in 2007. Stronger non-oil export performance is expected to improve
the external current account. With increases in public sector capital spending on priority
sectors, overall investment is projected to reach 19.7 percent of GDP by 2007 from 17.1
in 2000. The PRSP recognizes that sustained growth performance will require inter ah
the acceleration of the implementation      of structural reforms, the intensification   of
investment in human resources and physical infrastructure, and significant improvements
in governance.

III. PROGRESSUNDER THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM

7.      SAC III is a broad-based and complex adjustment operation, supporting reforms
in the forestry sector, the transport sector, and a major privatization program.        The
conclusion of SAC III and satisfactory implementation of the reforms it supports is a
trigger for attaining the HIPC completion point.     As described above, the Government
has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework conducive to growth and poverty
reduction and consistent with the objectives of the Program. This section discusses the

                                               -3-


progress in implementing the reforms supported by SAC III in privatization as well as in
the transport, forestry and finanGia1sectors.

                                   PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM

8        The main development objectives of the privatization             program, the initial
implementation of which was supported under SAC II (Credit No. 2813-CM), are: (a) to
improve the availability and quality of infrastructure services through the privatization of
the major public utilities (water, electricity and telecommunications) and thus mitigate
the constraints that have hampered growth and poverty reduction; (b) to unleash the large
growth potential      in the agro-industries by attracting capable investors with            the
knowledge, access to world markets, and financing required to expand the operations of
some of the largest companies of the country; and (c) to improve the availability and
quality of financial services. Two floating tranches of SAC III have focused on the
privatization program.

9        The First Privatization     Support  Floating Tranche was released in June 2000
following the fulfillment     of the conditions on privatization transactions involving BICEC
(a bank), CAMSUCO         (a sugar company), SNEC (the water company), SOCAPALM             (oil-
palm), SOCAR (an insurance company) and the award of the second mobile telephone
license.   However, the award of a concession for SNEC could not be completed
according to the original plan. After a successful bidding process and agreement between
the Government and the successful bidder on a framework for the concession, the bidder
notified the Government on July 4, 2003, that it was no longer willing to proceed within
the agreed framework.           The Government therefore declared the bidding           process
unsuccessful on September 12, 2003. Since then, the Government, in consultation with
IDA, has prepared an action plan to re-launch the bidding process and has just published.
The request for expressions of interest for consultant services to work on proposals for
the establishment of a public-private partnership in the urban water supply sector in
Cameroon.      The Government is also preparing the terms of reference for the audit of
SNEC accounts for the past four fiscal years.

10       The    Second Privatization      Support   Floating   Tranche    contains   conditions'
regarding CAMTEL          (telecommunications), CDC (agro-industrial conglomerate), CNR
(reinsurance company) and SONEL (electricity company).

11      CAMTEL. There have been difficulties in the privatization of CAMTEL,             which
operates the fixed telephone network.         The first round of bidding (pre-qualification),
launched in July 1999, was disappointing as none of the prospective investors met the
required criteria. The bidding was re-launched in December 1999 and the technical and
financial analysis of the bids led to the selection of a successful bidder in December
2000. However, negotiations could not be successfully concluded and the Government
entered into negotiations with the second ranked bidder but this also fell through.
Consequently, in April 2002, the Interministerial Committee for Privatization declared
the bidding process for CAMTEL              unsuccessful.    The Government has remained

1    Cf. Section IV - Paragraph 31.

                                             -4-


committed    to the privatization   of CAMTEL      and, with the assistance of IDA,       has
reviewed its strategy for improving the quality of fixed telecommunications services and
the approach to privatization.    The management of CAMTEL          was brought actively into
the exercise and the Government adopted a new action plan to improve the quality of
fixed telecommunications services.

12.     The new strategy and approach envisages:         (a) the active involvement of the
management of CAMTEL          in the new process; (b) the issuance of an interim cahier des
charges (interim    license) to CAMTEL        until  its privatization, to allow   for some
investment to stop its decline in the telecom market; (c) the strengthening of the telecom
regulatory agency (ART) to monitor CAMTEL's            obligations and performance; (d) the
revision of the tariffs; (e) the preparation of new business plan for CAMTEL;       and (f) a
new call for bids would be issued after six months of business plan implementation under
the cahier des charges. This new approach will have the flexibility     to use various forms
of public-private partnership in the privatization process. The cahier des charges was
signed on November        14, 2003, and a minimum          investment plan is now being
implemented.    Tariffs were revised in November 2003. The terms of reference for the
preparation of the business plan have been finalized and the consultant has started work
in January 2004 in order to pave the way for the privatization          of the State-owned
telecommunications incumbent operator (CAMTEL).          The Government has published the
request for expression of interest for the recruitment of the investment Bank to assist in
the sale of CAMTEL.

13      Mobile   Phone.    Two privately-owned mobile phone companies are now fully
operational. One was spun off from CAMTEL          and the other started operating following
the award of the second cellular license. The number of chips sold (prepaid cards and
subscriptions) now exceeds 700,000 compared to less than 3,500 before the privatization
process began in 1997.        The presence of these two private cellular companies has
improved services and lowered costs (particularly on international calls).      The telecom
regulatory agency (ART) is already being called upon to arbitrate between the operators
and is being supported by technical assistancefrom IDA.

14      SONEL.     The privatization transaction for the electricity company SONEL was
completed in July 2001. Only one investor presented a bid on November 30, 2000, and
was designated as successful bidder in February 2001.            However, post-privatization
performance has been disappointing.       The privatized electricity company has not been
able to deliver services in the hoped-for combination of quantity and quality owing to
several factors, including a severe drought during 2001 and 2002. The significant load-
shedding that occurred has caused economic disruption and public outrage. Efforts are
now underway by the Government and the new company, with assistance from IDA and
IFC, to increase generation capacity over time.

15      Cameroon      Development     Corporation    (CDC)     is the major agro-industrial
complex in Cameroon with four crops (palm oil, rubber, bananas and tea).                 The
Government decided to put each crop up for sale separately, without excluding the
possibility of an investor bidding for more than one crop. One bid was received for the
tea crop on June 29, 2001 and, following           negotiations, the final transaction was

                                                    -5-


concluded in October 2002. No bids were received for the other crops. The lack of bids
for the remaining crops can be attributed to the poor performance of the privatization
advisor and the concerns over the disposition of the long-term contracts between CDC
and the company currently operating the banana plantations. Furthermore, the political
sensitivity of this divestiture in the region of the country where the plantations are located
may have adversely affected investor interest

 16       The Government has decided to recruit new, reputable advisors to: (i) assessthe
financial value of the banana plantations; (ii) advise on the overall strategy for privatizing
the three remaining          crops; and (iii)       examine the full     implications      of the legal
arrangements between the Government and the company operating the banana plantations
and propose a satisfactory resolution.              A first draft of the report on the financial
evaluation of the banana plantations was completed in December 2003 and the
consultants for the two other studies are expected to start work by the end of February
2004.     In parallel, the Government is about to start the recruitment process of the
investment banker that would advise on the new round of privatization.                 According to the
agreed timetable, the bidding documents will be prepared in the second quarter of 2004
and the bidding process launched in July 2004.

17        CNR.     Despite intense marketing efforts2, the two attempts at privatizing the
National Reinsurance Company (CNR) proved unsuccessful. Therefore, the decision was
taken at the end of May 1999 to liquidate the enterprise. The CNR is no longer operating
and a clause abolishing the legal cession (whereby all insurance companies operating in
Cameroon were required to reinsure with CNR 10 percent of the value of policies issued)
was included and adopted in the 2001 budgetary law. While the CNR has defacto been
liquidated for some time, a few steps remain to be taken to complete the formal process.
CNR had little       economic justification         and had imposed a high cost on insurance
companies. Its liquidation has had a positive impact on the insurance industry.

                              TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM

18       The overall objective of the transport sector reform program is to ensure that the
sector contributes to growth and poverty reduction through lower transport costs and
higher quality of services. The adjustment program underlying SAC III encompasses
institutional,   regulatory and management reforms in the port sector and maritime
transport as well as in road maintenance, and rail transport.                The conditions for the
release of the first and second fixed cross-sectoral tranches included the adoption of
several transport-related measures: (i) the creation of a Road Fund and the establishment
of its financing mechanism; (ii) the implementation of the Road Fund and its funding
mechanism; and (iii) the adoption and implementation of a port sector reform plan to
improve the performance and competitiveness of Cameroonian ports, especially the Port
of Douala. In this context, the Government has established a National Port Authority,
four autonomous ports, and consultative committees for each port. The rehabilitation of


2   The latter include several publications in the ~~~~~c~~ZTimes, W~ZZStreet Jo~nal       and Le Monde,
    letters sent to several international reinsurance companies and the participation, in July 1998, in an
    international meeting in Monte Carlo between insurance and reinsurance companies.

                                            -6-


the Port of Douala, including the dredging of the port, is underway and has advanced
considerably. The conditions for the release of the transport sector support floating
tranche focus on the institutional and regulatory reforms in the port sector, the transfer of
industrial and commercial activities in the Port of Douala to the private sector, and the
reduction of port clearance times.

Roads

19      The operations of the Road Fund, established to secure adequate funding and
timely disbursement for road maintenance activities by the private sector, have proved
broadly satisfactory. Funds have been available on a regular basis, and the amount and
quality of road maintenance financed by the Fund have steadily increased over the last
three years of its operations.    Based on results achieved by the Road Fund, current
discussions are focused on the desirability of expanding Road Fund responsibilities to the
financing of road rehabilitation, and on finding an alternative financing mechanisms
(notably for HIPC resources) for the roads sector. In addition, implementation of a new
rural road maintenance strategy has begun.       It includes a training program for rural
populations and the designation of rural roads that would receive priority in maintenance
services.    Long-term effectiveness and sustainability of the strategy would require
progress on this decentralization process. Beyond this, challenges for the road sector
include finalizing   the roads administration reform, as well as increasing funding for
maintenance. The level of funding for maintenance, though several times higher than
before the reform, needs to be raised again to meet the current needs of the network. The
Government and the donor community are continuing a dialogue on these issues, texts
have been drafted and the Bank is considering mobilizing additional financing to support
further progress on these issues.

Ports

20.     Institutional  Reforms.   The port sector law was voted by the November 1998
session of the National Assembly and promulgated by the President of the Republic on
December 24, 1998.        The Law (No. 98/021 dated December 24, 1998) and the
implementation decree (No. 99/127 dated June 15, 1999) provide for the creation of a
National Port Authority (Autorite' Portuaire Nationale - APN), with responsibility for
overall management and oversight of the sector, but no operational responsibilities.
Meanwhile, port operations are placed under the management of Autonomous Port
Entities (Organismes Portuaires Autonomes - OPAs), with private operators performing
all commercial and industrial activities. Lastly, the Law and the implementation decree
(No. 99/129, dated June 15, 1999) provide for the creation of a consultative committee
within each port. Since the promulgation of the Law and its implementation decrees,the
APN has been set up and has operated since 2000 in a way consistent with its mandate. It
has been associated with most of the strategic decisions in the port sector since then, and
has produced       some   sector analysis   for  the  Government.      Nevertheless,     the
implementation    of the reform, except for the establishment of the Port A~to~ome de
Douala (PAD), slowed down between 2000 and 2002. The decrees No. 99/130,131, 132
and 133 dated June 15, 1999 creating the Ports of Douala, Garoua, Kribi, and Limbe
were revised in 2002 to reflect the provisions of the OHADA             Uniform     Act on

Companies. The Government decided by end 2003 to transfer the Port of Garoua to the
City of Garoua. This development is deemed satisfactory as it confirms that each Port is
operated separately. The structures in charge of liquidating the former G++ce N~~io~~Z
des Ports du Cameroun (ONPC) were effectively put in place only in early 2003, and the
members of the board of directors and the general assembly of the Ports of ICribi and
Limb6 were appointed by presidential decrees in November and December 2003. The
Government has yet to fulfill its obligations related to its contribution to the capital of the
Port of Douala and to its financing of dredging activities. These will be dealt with under
the framework of the overall public finance dialogue with the Government.

21       The Transfer of the Industrial    and Commercial      Activities and Port Services
in ;he Port of Douala (PAD) to the Private Sector. Progress has been made in several
areas, including the maintenance of the access channel, as well as of piers and basins,
which has consistently been performed satisfactorily through contracts awarded under
competitive bidding processes. The PAD has retained responsibility for the maintenance
of the land infrastructure and two bilateral donors (France and Germany) made loans to
the PAD late in 2002 for the rehabilitation of most of the berths, partly in recognition of
the institutional reforms undertaken. In early December 2003, the PAD finalized the
transfer to the private sector of towing and berthing as well as of ice manufacturing. IDA
staff and the Government have agreed that activities relating to the maintenance of
navigational aids and piloting should remain under the direct responsibility of the PAD,
as both have safety implications and are not usually outsourced except if the Authority
fails to deliver proper service (which was the case at the beginning of SAC III).         The
PAD has since set up specific accounting of these activities and shown a sustained
capacity to maintain an adequatelevel of safety in the channel. Since mid-2001, the state
of operational navigational aids has remained constantly satisfactory, compared to 1999,
when half of the equipment was out of order.

22       Regarding stevedoring activities, when SAC III was approved in 1998, the
container terminal did not operate as a separate facility.        Private operators, without
restriction at entry, were carrying out container operations without gantry cranes. Prior to
1998, the Government had obtained a credit from Japan to acquire gantry cranes.
However, there was a disagreement between the donor community              and the PAD on
whether this was the best option for container operations. When the Government finally
acquired the cranes in 2001, the issue of the management of the container terminal as a
distinct facility came to the fore, with the need concretely arising of finding an operator
for the cranes. The PAD worked out a transitional arrangement whereby it contracted
several (private sector) stevedoresto operate the cranes. Nevertheless, it was agreedwith
the Cameroonian Authorities that owing to the significance of the container terminal
operations, their transfer to the private sector should be carried out on a competitive
bidding basis, in a manner satisfactory to IDA.        The concessioning process for the
container terminal was launched in March 2003.           Out of the two bids received, a
successful bidder was selected. The conduct of the concession process has been judged
satisfactory to-date by IDA staff. The understanding between the Government and the
Bank on this issue has constantly been that the completion of this process was not a
condition of tranche release, but that the process would be monitored as part of the SAC
III program oversight.      Negotiations with the winning bidder have started and the

                                            -8-


outcome of these negotiations will have a substantial impact on the broader outcome of
the port reform program on the economy's competitiveness. Due account will be taken
of this in assessingprogress towards the HIPC completion Point triggers.

23.     Port Costs and Clearance Time.         Since the year 2000, the cost of moving a
container in Douala has decreased by around 17 percent for a 20-foot container. The
concessioning of the container terminal that is currently under way should help to sustain
this downward trend. To speed up transit time and improve transparency in the clearance
process, the Government set up the Guichet Unique du Commerce Exte'rieur (GUCE),
which provides a single window to importers and exporters by consolidating all of the
various services involved     in the import/export    of goods.     A dynamic facilitation
committee chaired by the private sector was also put in place and now closely monitors
the efficiency of the port and the clearance operations. One unexpected finding as a
result of the activities of the GUCE is that clearance time by shippers and their agents
account for more than half of the average clearance time at the port. Delays in clearance
time often reflect the time necessary to gather the sums needed to pay customs duties
and/or the use of the port as a storage area. An action plan has been designed and its
implementation    has already begun, to sensitize shippers and agents on the actions to
further reduce delays in clearance activities. The first actions, targeted to large shippers,
seem to have proven successful, with a reduction of total time by more than two days on
average in 2003 compared to the other shippers, while their performance was equivalent
in previous years.

24      As far as the administration and related services (such as shipment inspection
company, SGS) are concerned, the following trends are observed:

        *   On imports, the average clearance time inside the GUCE has been under
            seven days over the last ten months and around five days over the last three
            months. This shows that the clearance time that can reasonably be ascribed to
            the administration is less than seven days for imports.    It is also noteworthy
            that the delay associated with the availability of the shipment manifest (which
            shippers and agentsneed to fill in the clearance form) has been reduced to one
            day on average.

        *   On exports, the average clearance time through the GUCE is more difficult to
            capture than for the imports, which has been the main focus of the GUCE
            work as it gathered most of the complaint of shippers. A survey made by the
            GUCE in September 2003 shows an average transit time of more than two
            days for the administrative process (3.38 days exactly based on a sample of
            more than 1000 shipments), but less than two days for urgent deliveries or
            perishable goods.    No complaints from shippers indicate that ships were
            missed because of delayed procedures, which explains the lower attention to
            exports by the Cameroonian authorities.

25.     The next steps include the computerization of the GUCE and the interconnection
of all administration services. Work has started by end November 2003 as the contract
under Al3    (Agence Frcqaise    de De'veloppement) financing was signed in November

                                               -9-


2003. The upgrade of the Customs system has also started and should bring the entire
Port clearance system into a modem configuration by the end of 2004, with expectations
for further cuts in clearance time.

Railways

26       The concession of REGIFERCAM           (the public company) to CAmAIL     (a new
private company) was concluded in 1999 in the context of the preparation of the Railway
Concession Project (Credit No. 3695CM).            The Investment Program of CAMRAIL
includes: (a) the rehabilitation and modernization of rail infrastructure, hydraulic sites,
sleepers, acquisition of telecommunications materials; (b) the rehabilitation of rolling
stock and track and the acquisition of maintenance equipment; and (c) the environmental
and social improvement activities.     It is financed by the French Development Agency's
private   sector arm    (PROPARCO),        the European Investment     Bank  (EIB),   local
commercial    banks and IDA.        The project financed by IDA      became effective on
January 23, 2003. Operational and financial performance is satisfactory. The railways
are now net contributors to the Government budget through taxes paid, while they were
subsidized before the concession came in force.

Air Transport

27       With the completion of the legal framework in 1999, Cameroon now has a
modem Civil Aviation code as well as an autonomous Civil Aviation Authority.           The
financial  condition of the civil    aviation and airports sector is still fragile, and is
complicated    by the client-supplier     relationships between the airport management
company (ADC, de facto controlled by the Government) and state-owned Cameroon
Airlines  (CAMAIR).      Although a new management was put in place in CAMAIR            in
2000, the Government has not been successful in restructuring and privatizing the airline
and it continues to face serious operational and financial challenges, which results in a
significant drain on the government budget. Air transport costs remain below operating
costs for domestic flights, and are artificially     high on the sub regional network as
CAMAIR      is basically in a position of an unregulated monopoly.    The Government has
appointed a new team in the second semester of 2003 that has prepared, by the end of
December, an action plan on financial issues.

                                          FORESTRY

28       For the forestry sector, the reforms supported by SAC III have created a policy
and regulatory environment and an incentive framework conducive to environmentally
sustainable development for the sector. The reforms and the process leading to these
reforms continue to have a positive impact on other key areas of the Government
development agenda: environment, governance, economic management, and poverty
alleviation.   The SAC III      forestry package included the following    reforms: (i) a
competitive award of concessions with participation of an independent observer; (ii) a
national strategy for the allocation of logging rights; (iii) the adoption by the National
Assembly of major forest sector tax reforms; (iv) the implementation of a forestry tax
revenue enhancement program that has resulted in increased revenues from the forestry

                                            - IO-


sector; (v) the changes in the distribution of the forest rent to include local populations;
(vi) the publication    of regulations governing forest management plans; (vii)            the
establishment of a guarantee system to ensure compliance with management plans; (viii)
the awarding of contracts for the supervision of forest management and reinforcement of
the Ministry's   capacity in this area; (ix) the selection of areas to be reserved for
community forests; and (x) the revision of the statutes of ONADEF (ofice       Natio~aZ des
For&s)    and its   transformation    into  ANAFOR      (Agence Nationale       d'App~i    au
De'veloppement Forestier), with a clear mandate and financing mechanisms. Since the
release of the forestry tranche, IDA has continued to monitor the implementation of
reforms in this area as part of the monitoring        of the progress towards the HIPC
completion point triggers. With a more comprehensive body of policies and regulations
to oversee, and with      more demands from private and public          clients from     local
communities    and development partners, the Ministry       of Environment     and Forestry
(MINEF) has recently set up a new team in order to better respond to the challenge of an
expanded and qualitatively      more demanding workload.           Significant  institutional
strengthening and ministerial coordination are needed to secure the full and continued
implementation of the forestry sector reform agenda.

                                    FINANCIAL   SECTOR

29       Under SAC II and SAC III, the banking         and insurance sectors have been
restructured, with restructuring initiated under SAC II and completed under SAC III.
Today, all large banks are liquid, solvent and profitable.    Under the first privatization
support floating tranche of SAC III, BICEC (Banque Zntemationale pour ZeCommerce et
Z'Epargne au Cameroun), the outcome of a successful split of BICIC                  (Banque
Intemationale pour le Commerce et 1`Industrie au Cameroun) into a "good" bank and a
liquidation structure, was privatized.   SOCAR, a state-owned insurance company was
also restructured in the same way and privatized, while CNR, a state-owned reinsurance
company, was closed down for lack of business and relevance. The focus of the reform
effort has now shifted to other financial institutions.    Regional regulations of micro-
finance establishments     have been developed through an appropriate regional legal
instrument that was adopted in early 2002. The process of issuing licenses to micro-
finance establishments has been completed. In this context, over 300 establishments have
been eliminated from the registry of the Ministry of Agriculture, because they have not
submitted a request for a license.        The Douala     Stock Exchange       was officially
inaugurated in April   2003, but transactions have not fully      started yet.  The Social
Security reform is moving forward, albeit at a slow pace.

IV. PROGRESS AGAINST           THE RELEASE       OF THE REIMMNING           TRANCHES


30      The   Development     Credit    Agreement    requires    the   maintenance     of   a
macroeconomic policy framework for growth and poverty reduction consistent with the
objectives of the Program, satisfactory progress in the implementation of the reform
program and the fulfillment of specific actions as conditions for the release of the various
tranches. Bank staff are satisfied that the macroeconomic framework is satisfactory. The

                                           - ll-


fourth review under the Three-Year A~angement under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) was concluded by the IMF Board on December 17, 2003.

              THE SECOND PRIVATIZATION        SUPPORT FLOATING     TRANCHE

31      The four specific actions for the release of the Second Privatization Support
Floating Tranche of SAC III are listed in Part D of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement. These conditions are as follows:

      In accordance with paragraphs 33, 36, 38, 43, and 86 of the Letter of
      Development Policy (LDP), all bids received for CARTEL,        CDC, CNR and
      SONEL respectively have been analyzed, and the successful bidders have
      been selected and invited to enter into negotiations.

The following     paragraphs review    progress on fulfillment    of these specific
conditions.

32      CAMTEL      (Cameroon Telecommunications).      The condition has been met. The
bidding process for the sale of CAMTEL       was launched on December 30, 1999. Three
bids were received, one of which did not meet the bidding criteria.    After evaluation of
the bids and approval by the Interministerial Committee for privatization, the invitation to
negotiate was sent to the successful bidder in December 2000.

33.     CDC (Cameroon Development Corporation). The condition has been partially
met, although the Government took the expected actions toward its fulfillment.          The
Government has committed       to launching a new bidding process. In view of these, a
waiver is requested.    After the bidding process was launched, and despite significant
marketing efforts, only one bid was received for the tea crop unit on June 29, 2001. No
bids were received for the three remaining crop units, palm oil, rubber and bananas. The
bid for the tea unit was independently evaluated and then was assessed by the
Interministerial Committee for privatization.     The successful bidder was invited to
negotiate in May 2002 and the presidential decree awarding the license to exploit the tea
crop was signed in October 2002. In summary, the privatization of all CDC activities
could not be completed as no bidders made offers for three of the four crops.           The
Government has decided to re-launch the process and with the assistance of IDA, has
formulated and is implementing a new action plan for the privatization of the remaining
three units of CDC.

34      CNR (Caisse Nationale de R&assurance). The condition has not been met even
though the Government        took the expected actions toward       its ful~llment.     The
change to liquidation,   from the originally    envisioned strategy of privatization,    the
basis of the formulation   of the conditionality, has nevertheless fulfilled  the intent of
the required    action.  In view of this, a waiver is requested.       Despite significant
marketing efforts and two rounds of call for bids in 1998, no bids were received. In the
circumstances, the Government took the decision to liquidate CNR in January 1999. The
liquidation of this company, which was imposing a high cost on insurance companies,
has had a positive impact on the insurance sector.

                                          - 12-


35      SONEL (Societe Nationale d'Electricite).    The condition    has been met.    One
investor presented a bid in November 2000. The technical offer received was judged
satisfactory and the financial offer was considered a good start for negotiations.    The
investor was selected as successful bidder and the invitation to negotiate was sent on
February 21, 2001.     Subsequently, agreement was reached with the signature of the
protocol of sale in July 2001.

                     THETRANSPORTSIJPPORTFLOATINGTRANCHE

36      The three specific conditions for the release of the Transport Support Floating
Tranche of SAC III are listed in Part E of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement. These conditions are as follows:

        With respect to the port sector, in accordance with paragraphs 65 to 72 of the
        Letter of Development Policy (LDP), the Borrower has:

        (a)   completed the institutional and regulatory reform measures specified in
             Part B. 2 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Schedule (i.e., Schedule 2 to the
             Development Credit Agreement);

        (b)  with respect to the port of Douala, completed the transfer lo the private
             sector of all commercial and industrial activities (warehousing, stevedoring,
             freight forwarding,  consignment) as well as port services (maintenance of
             access and superstructure, towing, piloting,    berthing, ice manufacturing,
             maintenance of maritime navigational aids,) on a competitive bidding basis,
              in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; and

        (c) made progress satisfactory to the Association to achieve on average, for    a
           period of three consecutive months, thefollowing performance indicators for
           port clearance of containerized merchandise in the port of Douala: 7 working
            daysfor imports and 2 working daysfor exports.

The following paragraphsreview progress on these specific conditions.

37      Condition   (a) has been met.     The National Port Authority,     APN (Autorite
Portuaire   Nationale)  is operating in conformity   with its mandate, though greater
efficiency could be obtained. The organic texts of the Autonomous Port Agencies of
Douala, Limbe     and Kribi   have been respectively modified      by Decrees 2002063,
2002064 and 2002/165 dated June 24, 2002. Authority over the Port of Garoua was
transferred to the City of Garoua by decree 20031335 dated December 9, 2003. The
Ministry of Transport's Decisions Nos. 01106 and 01107 dated December 4, 2003 have
respectively determined the geographic circonscription      of the Autonomous Ports of
Limbe and Kribi.   The members of the board of directors of the Ports of Limbe and Kribi
were appointed respectively under decrees 2003/3 17 and 2003/320 dated November 14
and 17, 2003. The members of the college that constitutes the general assembly of the
Ports of Limbe and Kribi     were appointed respectively under decrees 2003/333 and
2003/334 dated December 9, 2003. The consultative committees of the four autonomous
ports have been established under Ministry of Transport Decisions.     The liquidation of

                                            - 13 -


the former ONPC (Office Notional des Ports du Cameroon) is now being carried out
under the Minister of Finance's Decision No. 239 dated June 17, 2002.

38       Condition   (b) has been partially    met.  A waiver is proposed in view of a
departure from the originally    envisioned strategy for piloting and the maintenance of
navigational aids.

39      All commercial and industrial activities are in the hands of the private sector.
Warehousing, stevedoring, freight forwarding have always been private and open to any
company     provided    that  administrative   requirements    are complied    with   under
Cameroonian legislation.

40      Operations in the Douala Port Container Terrninal (DCT) are currently carried out
by'private stevedoring companies. These arrangements will be replaced by a concession
arrangement to be awarded under an ongoing competitive bidding process in order to
rationalize DCT operations. The completion of the concessioning process is not required
by specific condition (b) for the release of the Transport Floating Tranche. As mentioned
above, when Credit No. 3102-CM was approved in 1998, container operations were
carried out without any gantry cranes.        The operations were carried out by private
stevedores registered with the Port Authority without restrictions to entry. Therefore the
transfer of the operations to the private sector was not an issue. When the PAD acquired
gantry cranes in 2001, the Government and IDA agreed that becauseof the importance of
container activities in the overall port reform program, container handling operations
operations should be transferred to an experienced private sector operator through a
competitive concession process. IDA has monitored the process closely and is satisfied
with the bidding process and the conclusions of the technical evaluation report.        The
contract is expected to be signed in March 2004.

41      Among the port services, maintenance of access and superstructure is done
through contracts awarded regularly on a competitive basis (the next dredging contract
for the channel is to be awarded by mid-2004).         The maintenance of the container
terminal equipment is currently done by private stevedoring companies, and will be
included in the above-mentioned concession of the terminal.      Towing and berthing have
been awarded under a concession contract and the ice manufacturing unit has been
transferred to a private company, both on December 3,2003.

42      The Government decided, after consultations with IDA, to have the PAD continue
to be responsible for the piloting and maintenance of navigational aids, given their safety
and security implications.   The rationale for seeking divestiture from these two activities
in 1998 was that, at that time, the port of Douala was extremely inefficient and could not
be relied on to manage these activities.     Thus, contrary to common practices in other
ports, it was decided to privatize these two activities.     Over the last five years, the
management of the now-autonomous PAD has greatly improved, with the assistance of
IDA and other donors. In that context, the Government decided, and IDA staff agreed,
that these two activities would remain under PAD management, given their safety and
security implications.  Based on the steady progress in management by the PAD between
1999 and 2001, and its maintenance of satisfactory performance with respect to piloting

                                              - 114-


activities and maintenance of navigational aids since 2001, the proposed waiver for these
two activities is justified.

43       Condition     (c) has been met.   The clearance time for imports attributable to the
PAD and related administrative activities has been under seven days for the last ten
months. Export clearance time cannot be measured on a thorough basis, but the average
transit time inside the export process is around three days but less than two days for all
perishable goods and urgent deliveries.       The shippers' community has not claimed any
loss of shipment attributable to delayed processing of export shipments by the
administration.

VI.  CONCLUSION

44       Overall execution of the Program is satisfactory. The macroeconomic framework
is consistent with the objectives of the Program and execution is satisfactory:

         (i) Two out of four conditions for the release of the Second Privatization Support
              Floating Tranche of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit have been fully
              fulfilled to the satisfaction of IDA. One condition requires a partial waiver
              and the other condition requires a waiver in view of a departure from the
              originally envisioned strategy.

         (ii) Two out of three conditions for the release of the Transport Support Floating
              Tranche of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit have been met to the
              satisfaction of IDA.    One condition requires a partial waiver in view of a
              departure from the originally envisioned strategy.

