Report No. PIC867
Project Name                   Mongolia-Poverty Alleviation for...
Vulnerable Groups Project
Region                         East Asia Pacific Region
Sector                         Human Resources
Project ID                     MNPA36417
Borrower                       Mongolia
Date PID Prepared              June 1995
Implementing Agency            Poverty Alleviation Management Unit
Sambuugiin Street 38
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
Tel: 976-1-326630
Fax: 976-1-326630
Projected Appraisal Date       April 1995
Projected Board Date           July 1995
Background:
1.   Mongolia, with a per capita income of $320, is a vast country with
a small population (2.26 million), of whom percent are nomadic herders.
Despite the dispersed population and limited communication and transport
networks, exacerbated by Mongolia's harsh and erratic semiarid
continental climate, until 1990 the population had enjoyed universal
coverage of primary education, primary health services, access to safe
drinking water, and state guaranteed employment and social assistance.
2.   In 1990, living standards and social indicators began to
deteriorate when the country's 70-year-old socialist system collapsed,
accompanied by the termination of assistance of the former Soviet Union
and a substantial decrease in demand from its traditional trading
partners, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance. At the same time,
Mongolia launched an austerity program and structural reforms to move
towards a market economy and sustainable development. Between 1990 and
1993 Mongolia's GDP declined for four years in a row as the country
underwent a rapid transition to a market economy. The cumulative loss
in national income amounted to 20 percent, real consumption per capita
declined by a third, and real investment by two-thirds. Inflation
accelerated to 331 percent in 1993, and exports and imports fell by more
than half between 1990 and 1993. The combined effect of these events
has resulted in an 8.5 percent registered unemployment rate, 30 percent
of school age children not attending schools, a doubling of maternal
mortality from 0.12 percent in 1990 to 0.24 percent in 1993, the number
of female headed households rapidly rising, and the real value of
pensions and other social benefits declining.
3.   The economy now appears to be responding to the wide-ranging reform
program carried out by the Government. GDP contracted by only 1.3
percent in 1993 and is estimated to have grown by 2.5 percent in 1994.
Inflation slowed significantly in 1994 to less than 70 percent.
External, fiscal, and structural targets set for end-1993 and end-1994,



and agreed with the International Monetary Fund, were met. Government
savings, which were negative earlier, turned positive.
4.   To complement the economic stabilization and reform measures, the
Government has launched a comprehensive National Poverty Alleviation
Program (PAP) aimed at reducing the proportion of the population living
below the poverty line from 26 percent in 1994, including 6 percent
classified as absolute poor, to 10 percent by the year 2000. While the
adopted poverty reduction strategy is appropriate, achieving the target
by the year 2000 appears ambitious.
5.   To facilitate financing of the PAP, the Government established a
Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF) with four accounts for employment
promotion, local development, women, and social assistance. Each is
seen as a vehicle for resource mobilization (domestic and external)
aimed at specific objectives of the program. These four operational
accounts will be complemented by special "project" allocations from aid
agencies to finance parts of the PAP. The National Poverty Alleviation
Committee (NPAC), an interministerial and nongovernmental organization
committee, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, would oversee
implementation of the PAP to ensure that ministries and local
governments adhere to agreed policy guidelines. The Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) has been drafted, which provides the
complete menu of eligible subprojects for the overall PAP program,
mechanism for allocating resources based on the proportion of poor in
each province, detailed guidelines for subproject preparation, and
selection criteria, financing mechanisms and repayment terms.
6.   The proposed project supports the most urgent aspects of the PAP
aimed at poverty alleviation among groups particularly vulnerable to the
social cost of adjustment. The vulnerable groups are considered to be:
(a) children without one or both parents; (b) disabled persons; (c) the
elderly without care; (d) the unemployed; (e) low-income households with
many children; (f) female-headed households; and (g) herders with few
animals. To target basic services to the poor and improve monitoring of
poverty trends, the Government will complete a Living Standards
Measurement Survey by July 1995.
7.   The proposed project was prepared entirely by the Government, with
financial assistance provided by the Japanese Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund. Preparation began in June 1994 and, to gain lessons
for project design, included implementation of a series of pilot schemes
in income generation, education, health, and social assistance. A
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared by the Government was
discussed with IDA in Washington in January 1995.
Project Objectives:
8.   The overall development objective of the project is to mitigate the
adverse effects of Mongolia's economic transition on the poor segments
of the vulnerable groups. The proposed project would contribute to the
development of the institutional framework for implementing and
coordinating the PAP and facilitate community participation. As the
first donor-assisted project to be processed through the PAP framework,
the proposed project would demonstrate the implementation process of the
-2 -



PAP, while focusing on short-term, quick impacts with a view to: (a)
create gainful employment and income for the poor and absolute poor in
particular; (b) raise enrolent in basic education; (c) reduce maternal
and other mortality and morbidity; and (d) provide assistance to
handicapped and mentally retarded children and disabled persons.
Project Description:
9.   The proposed project is an integral part of the Government's PAP
and comprises institution capacity building and subprojects under four
sectoral components. The institutional support component would provide
short and long term international and local consultants to develop the
implementing agencies' institutional, management and operating
procedures, supervision, monitoring and evaluation methods and a
management information system. Project technical assistance would be
carried out under an umbrella program administered by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). This assistance would not only aide
project implementation, but also develop a network of organizations able
to manage the PAP. Local and overseas training of implementing
agencies' staff, office equipment and vehicles would also be provided.
The implementing agencies' operating costs would be initially (for six
months) financed under the UNDP program, but thereafter the Government
would take over the expenditures using its project counterpart
contribution.
10. To meet their varying needs, communities will be able to select
appropriate sector investments from menus of eligible activities defined
in the PIM. About 300 subprojects under the various menus have been
identified. The income generating component of the project would create
employment opportunities through community-based programs of public
works, including infrastructure maintenance and environmental protection
works, and productive activities. The basic education component is
aimed at reducing the dropout and non-enrolent rates through a menu of
options, including the installation and repair of heating systems, the
renovation of schools and the provision of teaching materials. The
rural health component would provide critical inputs needed to maintain
and restore the ability of rural health services to reduce maternal
mortality and morbidity through options, including the provision of
transport services, the installation of heating systems, the supply of
medical equipment and the training of health staff. The support for the
disabled component would finance the special equipment needs of (i)
mentally retarded and physically handicapped children, and (ii) the
institutes/factories that train or employ disabled adults. The
allocation of resources at the province level for the sectoral
components will be based on the distribution of the absolute poor,
school nonenrolent and material mortality rates. Targeting of the poor
would be achieved through community participation in subproject
identification and the sue of self-targeting in the income generation
component by fixing wages slightly below the market rate.
Project Financing:
11.   The total project cost is estimated at $10.53 million.    Since the
specific subprojects are yet be identified by the communities, physical
and price contingencies are not included. Similarly, the foreign
- 3-



exchange component, estimated to account for 9 percent of the total
project cost, is indicative. The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million
equivalent would finance 95 percent of the total project cost (100
percent of foreign and 94 percent of local costs) and the Government
would contribute the balance. To allow start-up of the project before
the onset of the harsh winter season that would prohibit work on many
subprojects, retroactive financing is recommended of up to $0.15 million
of eligible expenditures approved after June 1, 1995 in accordance with
the PIM.
Project Implementation:
12. The project would be implemented in accordance with procedures and
provisions for the overall PAP, including use of the PAF and the PIM
(para. 5). The NPAC would carry overall responsibility for project
implementation, while the Poverty Alleviation Program Management Unit
(PAPMU) would act as secretariat and would be responsible for day-to-day
project management. As the Government's focal point for poverty
alleviation, PAPMU's mandate includes: (a) monitoring implementation of
policy decisions; (b) monitoring implementing agencies' adherence to the
criteria established in the PIM for approving locally initiated
subprojects; (c) ensuring that the PAF is adequately funded and remains
liquid; (d) ensuring projects are properly monitored and an appropriate
data bank is established for timely evaluation; (e) organizing training
for the implementing agencies; (g) publicizing the financed activities;
(f) ensuring that public policy and expenditures have a poverty focus;
and (h) issuing progress reports to the NPAC and the donor community.
PAPMU's counterparts at the province level would review and approve
subprojects submitted by the district level, monitor the implementation
of subprojects, document lessons learned, and maintain proper project
accounts. The district level implementing agencies, with beneficiaries,
would be responsible for identifying priority community-based income
generation, education and health subprojects.
Project Sustainability:
13. The long-run sustainability of poverty alleviation would only be
assured when the growth of the economy recovers, allowing employment
opportunities to emerge, and public expenditures on basic education,
health and other social services are provided adequate funding. It is
also recognized that during the transition, the limited domestic
resources would have to be augmented substantially to support the PAP.
In the interim period, sustainability of the specific programs financed
under the project would be assured by adhering strictly to the
subproject selection criteria requiring the formation of group
organizations and the identification of community-based subprojects for
which recurrent budget allocation would be assured. To link the short-
term measures which are being supported under the proposed operation
with the long-term measures, by end- 1995 the Government would review
its planned expenditures for the delivery of priority basic education,
health, and other services and develop a draft strategy for providing
social services on a sustainable basis over the next five years. IDA
would be closely associated with the study with a view assist the
Government to identify a follow-up operation in the human resources
sector planned for 1998.
-4-



Lessons for Project Design:
14. Since the proposed project would be the first IDA-assisted
poverty/human resources sector operation in Mongolia, lessons are not
available from previous operations. However, lessons from the pilot
schemes and the Bank Group's experience in supporting poverty
alleviation projects and Social Investment Funds (SIFs) in other
countries have been considered in designing the proposed project. Most
SIFs in Latin America were created to alleviate the impact of adjustment
programs on the poor. The key lessons incorporated in the design of
this project are that: (a) the poverty alleviation program is integrated
into the economic transition program to support the sustainability of
the economic reform and the structural adjustment; (b) political
commitment at the highest level is demonstrated in the preparation,
review and approval of the PIP and the establishment of an independent
implementing agency, PAPMU; (c) a PIM describing the operating
procedures including menus of subprojects eligible for funding under the
PAF would be adopted; (d) to avert approval of subprojects which are not
eligible, the Government would publicize its transparent funding
mechanism and procedure to the public, and release of funds to the
province level implementing agencies would be contingent upon
satisfactory compliance with agreed procedures and full accounting of
actual expenditures; and (e) targeting of the poor would be achieved by
allowing community participation in subproject identification and the
use of self targeting by fixing wages slightly below the market rate.
Program Objective Categories:
15. The target beneficiaries of the project are the absolute poor among
the vulnerable groups who are currently unable to meet their basic needs
together with those who may fall into these groups. Program components
will build on or operate through, to the extent possible, existing
central and local structures rather than aim at the establishment of
separate services/facilities for the poor. As female-headed households
constitute the largest group of poor, a particular focus of the project
will be addressing the gender-related causes of poverty. Mongolian
society as a whole would benefit from the project through increased
financial resources diverted away from subsidies to priority community
identified activities; through better use of underemployed resources;
and greater socio-economic stability as a result of increased equity,
opportunity, and human development.
Environmental Aspects:
16. The project would have no environmental impact.
Participatory Approach:
17. Mongolia's small population lends itself to a manageable targeting
of public programs to the absolute poor. District administrations
maintain detailed information on household incomes and classification of
residents by income groups. Effective participation of the vulnerable
groups in identifying community-wide needs is a key to successful
implementation and sustainability of the program. To facilitate
meaningful participation, the district level implementing agencies
- 5 -



assisted by NGOs (where present) would involve the communities,
including the vulnerable groups, prior to undertaking any community-wide
programs.
Project Benefits:
18. The project could contribute to the attainment of the goals set in
the PAP by mitigating the social costs of adjustment which, if not
addressed, will undermine the Government's economic reform program.
Public works and other vulnerable group activities will generate 0.7
million person-months of temporary employment for all the absolute poor
of working age. Moreover, the long-neglected public infrastructure
would be rehabilitated, improving opportunities for local area
development. The project would contribute to raising the school enrolent
rate from 70 to 85 percent. In addressing the gender-related effects of
poverty, reduction of maternal mortality is the focus of the rural
health services component which is aimed at achieving the pre-transition
level of 12 per 10,000 births. The services and capacity of four
institutions serving the disabled would be enhanced through this
project, providing direct assistance to about 600 physically disabled
and mentally retarded children and adults. Through the development and
capacity building of the PAP institutional mechanism, the project would
provide for the longer-term sustainability of PAP with a mechanism for
channeling other donor support. Creating an enabling environment for
the community in general and the poor in particular to participate in
identifying community needs in infrastructure, education and health
would form the basis for a sustainable development approach.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



