Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22232-MN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27600; TF-25283)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.5 MILLION (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS PROJECT
June 22, 2001
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2001)
Currency Unit = "Mongolian Togrogs
1,000 Mongolian "Togrog" = US$ 0.92
US$ 1 = 1,080 Mongolian Togrogs (MNT)
FISCAL YEAR
Government January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AIDS          Acquired Auto-immune Disease Syndrome
Aimag         Province
APAC         Aimag Poverty Alleviation Council
BA            Beneficiary Assessment
Bag           the smallest unit of Mongolian public administration (rural sub-district)
CAS          (World Bank) Country Assistance Strategy
CLT          Core Learning Team
COMECON    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DPAC         Duureg Poverty Alleviation Council
Duureg        Urban district (in Ulaanbaatar)
Dzud         the generic Mongolian term for a range of late autumn, winter, and early spring weather
conditions that prevent livestock from obtaining sufficient feed from open grazing due to
deep snow or ice covering pastures = "winter emergency"
est.          estimated
FAO/CP        UN Food & Agriculture Organization/Cooperating Program (with World Bank)
FER           Final Evaluation Report (PAPO, December 2000)
Ger          Felt tent (traditional dwelling)
GoM           Govemment of Mongolia
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IGF           Income Generation Fund (VGO modification from late-1998)
ILI          Intensive Learning ICR
IMR          Infant Mortality Rate
IPRSP         Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
Khoroo        Ulaanbaatar sub-district
KPAC         Khoroo Poverty Alleviation Council
LDF          Local Development Fund (of NPAP)
LG            Local Government
LSMS          Living Standards Measurement Survey
m.            million
M&E           Monitoring and evaluation
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:   Ian C. Porter
Sector Director:    Mark D. Wilson
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Robin Meams



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MIS           Management Information System
MMR           Maternal Mortality Rate
MNT           Mongolian Togrog
MoECS         Ministry of Education, Culture and Science
MoFE          Ministry of Finance and Economy
MoH-          Ministry of Health
MoPPL         Ministry of Population Policy and Labor (now MoSWL)
MoSWL         Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NPAC          National Poverty Alleviation Committee
NPAP          National Poverty Alleviation Programme
NSO           National Statistical Office
O&M           Operation and maintenance
PA            Poverty Assessment
PAC           Poverty Alleviation Council
PAPMU         (former) Poverty Alleviation Programme Management Unit (under MoPPL)
PAPO          Poverty Alleviation Programme Office (PMU for PAVGP and the broader NPAP)
PAVGP         Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PLSA          Participatory Living Standards Assessment
PMU           Project/Programrnme Management Unit
PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
PW            Public Works
QAE           Quality at Entry
QAG           Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
RLF           Revolving Loan Fund (from credit reflows)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SIDA          Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SL            Sustainable Livelihoods
SPAC          Sum Poverty Alleviation Council
STDs          Sexually transmitted diseases
Sum           Rural district
SWOT          Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats
TBC           Tuberculosis
TTL           Task Team Leader (formnerly referred to as Task Manager)
UB            Ulaanbaatar
UNDP          United Nations Development Programnrne
UNV           United Nations Volunteer
VGO           Vulnerable Group Organization
WB            World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






MONGOLIA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    17
9. Partner Comments                                                                   19
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                28
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  29
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  29
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 37
Annex 10. Process Documentation: PAVGP Intensive Learning ICR Process Flow Chart     48
Annex 11. Borrower records of project achievements by component, from MIS             57
Annex 12. Selected Social Indicators for Mongolia                                    72
Map: IBRD 31531






Project ID. P036417                                       Project Name: POVERTY ALLEVIATION FOR
VULNERABLE GROUPS
Team Leader: Robin Meams                                  TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: June 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: POVERTY ALLEVIATION FOR VULNERABLE   L/C/TF Number: IDA-27600; TF-25283
GROUPS
CountryIDepartment: MONGOLIA                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AL - Livestock; BD - Decentralization; EP - Primary
Education; HB - Basic Health; SA - Social
Assistance
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/19/1994                               Effective: 01/11/1996         01/11/1996
Appraisal:  03/17/1995                                MTR. 09/20/1997             09/20/1997
Approval:  07/06/1995                              Closing: 06/30/1999           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOM/PAPO
Other Partners: UNDP, Local NGOs
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                              Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                             Vinay K. Bhargava
Team Leader at ICR:   Robin Mearns                              Petros Akliku
ICR Primary Author:   Alice Carloni (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The objectives and design of the Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project (PAVGP)
need to be assessed in the context of (a) the exceptional economic, political and institutional conditions
prevailing in Mongolia and (b) the process of programme development of which PAVGP formed part.
When Govemment initiated its National Poverty Alleviation Programme (NPAP) in 1994, the economy was
in deep crisis. Following the break-up of the Soviet Union and the collapse of COMECON, the loss of
subsidies from the Soviet Union equivalent to one third of GDP was a profound shock to the whole
economy, resulting in rapid plant closures and major job losses in urban state sector employment, 300%
inflation and massive population shift from cities back to the country's traditional livestock sector in spite
of the concomitant collapse of rural co-operatives and public services. The main economic outcome of
transition was therefore a rapid rise in urban and rural unemployment and poverty. The maternal mortality
rate (MMR) doubled between 1991 and 1993 from 13 to 26 per 10,000 births (see Annex 12). School
enrolment declined and dropouts increased, in large part due to increased demand for family labour,
particularly boys, in herding. In a country where poverty had been rare until 1990, the first Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) in 1995 found that 36.3% of the population fell below the poverty
line. In response to the crisis situation, PAVGP was processed quickly, with pilot activities largely
substituting for traditional project preparation and appraisal.
Pilot Phase (Oct 1994-Dec. 1995): 65 pilot schemes were implemented under a $330,000 Japanese PHRD
grant, as a basis for the design of an IDA project. The pilot phase was implemented, with Bank
supervision, by a project management unit (PAPMU) under what was then the Ministry of Population
Policy and Labour (MoPPL).
NPAP Phase I (Jan 1996-June 1999): In response to deteriorating social and economic conditions, in 1994,
with support from UNDP, GoM approved a "National Poverty Alleviation Programme" (NPAP), with the
ambitious objective of reducing poverty from 26.5% in 1994 to 10% by 2000. The NPAP Programme
Document identified a broad menu of 22 poverty alleviation actions, ranging from emergency public works
and small-scale enterprise development to health, education and social welfare. The umbrella programme
attracted US$15.7 million in finance from 15 donors including IDA, UNDP, ADB, The Netherlands,
Japan, SIDA and UK. UNDP provided over USS 1.4 million mainly for institutional capacity building. The
1994 NPAP Programme Document stated that the PMU for the programme would be "...based at the
Ministry of Population Policy and Labour... " (MoPPL, now MoSWL).
PA VGP (March 1996-Dec. 2000): although the IDA project was implemented as an integral part of NPAP,
its objective (below) was more modest than that of NPAP and in the SAR, the PMU was described as.
an autonomous entity under the supervision ofNPAC, reporting directly to the Minister of MoPPL in his
capacity as Deputy Chairman ofNPA C. "
The original objective of PAVGP, as stated in the SAR, was to mitigate the adverse effects of Mongolia's
economic transition on vulnerable groups, particularly those falling below the poverty line. Specifically, the
project aimed to: (i) create gainful employment and income for poor people in urban and rural
communities; (ii) raise enrolment in basic education; (iii) reduce maternal and infant mortality; and (iv)
promote income-generating opportunities for the handicapped. PAVGP was implemented by the Poverty
Alleviation Programme Office (PAPO) under the guidance of the National Poverty Alleviation Committee
(NPAC) as an integral part of Government' s National Poverty Alleviation Progranmme (NPAP), through
provincial (aimag) or urban district (duureg) level poverty alleviation councils (APACs/DPACs) and rural
district (sum) or urban sub-district (khoroo) poverty alleviation councils (SPACs/KPACs).
-2 -



Project objectives reflected essential priorities of poverty reduction strategies in Mongolia at the time, as
expressed in the Government's NPAP and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The SAR
remarked that "..while the [Government's] adopted strategy is appropriate, reducing poverty to 10% by
the year 2000 appears ambitious" and identified the risk that "achievement of GoM objective of reduction
of poverty incidence from 26% in 1994 to 10% in 2000 rests on assumption of GDP growth rate of 5%
per year. " In this context, PAVGP's modest objective was to ensure that poverty did not remain
unchecked, school dropouts and non-enrolment did not increase, maternal mortality did not continue to rise
and that those unable to participate in the labour market would be provided their basic needs. This low-key
and pragmatic approach to poverty reduction was realistic under the circumstances.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No formal revision of objectives was required during project implementation because the original objectives
were stated in quite general terms. Nevertheless, some shift in emphasis was apparent in the implementation
of the public works sub-component - from employment generation to sustainable rural infrastructure - and
in the productive activities credit sub-component, from maximisation of poverty outreach to creation of
self-sustaining enterprises.
3.3 Original Components:
(a) Income generation (US$6 million = 60%; IDA credit 5.6 million):
* public works - employment generation for the unemployed poor through rehabilitation of district
level infrastructure such as roads, schools, hospitals and water supply;
* credit for productive activities - loans to Vulnerable Group Organizations (VGOs) for income
generating activities.
(b) Basic education (US$2 million = 20%)
(c) Rural health (US$2 million = 20%)
(d) Support for the Disabled (US$0.2 million = 2%)
(e) Institutional Support (US$0.1 million = 1%)
3.4 Revised Components:
Although there was no major revision, components were regrouped in 1998 when an Income Generation
Fund (IGF) was established as distinct from the Local Development Fund (LDF). At this time, public
works (US$2.28m), basic education (US$1.56m), rural health (US$1.92M) and support for the disabled
(US$0.18m) were grouped under LDF, whereas credit was placed under IGF (VGO scheme: US$0.79m;
IGF: US$0.69m). In 1999, the Credit Agreement was amended to enable the rural health component to
procure ambulances for 212 remote rural sums, and in 2000, in response to high levels of livestock deaths
during the 1999/2000 dzud the loan agreement was further amended to enable the project to devote the
remaining unspent US$1.3 million under IGF to restocking of poor herders.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although overall quality at entry was satisfactory', project design was uneven. The design of the
components dealing with education and health and support for the disabled was sound, and that of public
works was adequate, but the Vulnerable Group Organization credit scheme design was unsatisfactory.
However, since VGO credit absorbed only 9% of the project budget (17% with IGF), this weakness -
although serious - was not enough to warrant an unsatisfactory rating. The principal strengths of project
design were conformity with national policy and the World Bank Mongolia Country Assistance Strategy,
heavy country involvement in project preparation, use of pilot projects for design and correct identification
of several implementation risks. The principal weaknesses included a poorly designed credit scheme, thin
documentation (lack of sectoral working papers and detailed costing) and poor or inappropriate
- 3 -



specification of targets and impact indicators'.
The SAR did not disaggregate costs between public works and credit.
Dzud is the generic Mongolian term for a range of late autumn, winter, and early spring weather conditions that
prevent livestock from obtaining sufficient feed from open grazing. They include deep snow (tsagaan dzud) or
ice (tumur dzud) covering pastures, but also the absence of snow (khar dzud) where this would normally be the
primary source of water for animals on otherwise unusable winter pastures. Dzud conditions tend to be
exacerbated by drought during the preceding summer, which reduces the amount of green forage in summer,
and standing litter available for grazing during winter/spring. Extreme winter conditions occurred in both
1999/2000 and 2000/2001 (two successive l-in-50-year dzud events)
World Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) - during a rapid assessment of quality of project supervision in
FY99 - rated quality at entry as satisfactory.
No targets were specified for credit, health or education - neither regarding numbers of sub-projects to be
financed nor numbers of beneficiaries. The target for employment generation (700,000 person-months) was
excessively ambitious for an investment of US$6 million ($8 per p/m). Impact indicators for education and
health on the other hand (national primary school enrolment, maternal and infant mortality rates), are
influenced by many factors other than the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although the overall goal of NPAP was to reduce poverty from 26% in 1994 to 10% by 2000, overall
poverty at national level does not appear to have been reduced. In 1995, the LSMS undertaken by NSO
with Bank support found that 36% of the population fell below the poverty line. In 1998, a similar - but
not fully comparable - LSMS survey undertaken by NSO with UNDP support, found that 35% of the
population was below the poverty line and that the depth and severity of poverty had slightly worsened. The
findings of the Participatory Living Standards Assessment (PLSA) conducted by NSO in 2000 with World
Bank support are consistent with these trends and confirm that polarisation between rich and poor
intensified between 1995 and 2000. While a minority of households managed to lift themselves out of
poverty, many were left behind and those already below the poverty line experienced a worsening of living
conditions. However, PAVGP's objective of mitigating the adverse effects of Mongolia's economic
transition on vulnerable groups such as poor herders, female-headed households, children and disabled
people was largely achieved, albeit on a smaller scale than originally anticipated. In particular, the project
contributed to halting the deterioration of basic education and rural health facilities and community
infrastructure during a difficult period of the economic transition.
The project's success in achieving its objective of creating gainful employment and income for poor people
in urban and rural communities was mixed. The public works component was successful in creating
temporary employment and in halting the deterioration of economic and social infrastructure, and, although
the duration of employment was too short to have an impact on the livelihoods of the poor, the
infrastructure works themselves contributed to poverty reduction. While the public works component was
largely successful, the achievements of the productive activities sub-component were modest, due mainly
to flaws in the original VGO credit scheme design. The recently added restocking sub-component holds
promise for poverty reduction but it is too soon to assess its impact.
The project was well targeted, with the exception of the VGO credit scheme, which allowed non-poor group
leaders to borrow sums up to US$2,000 on behalf of their groups. The independently-conducted
- 4 -



Participatory Living Standards Assessment in mid-2000 reported perceptions that VGO loans tended to go
to people well-connected with the local administration. The impact of the VGO scheme on overall targeting
was minor because it absorbed only 9% of total project finance. The IGF credit scheme had fewer targeting
problems. The IGF credit scheme targeted the bankable poor whereas the public works employment
schemes targeted the extreme poor who did not benefit from credit due to fear that they might not be able to
repay.
Distribution of benefits by gender was satisfactory: 54% of credit beneficiaries and 28% of persons
employed as construction workers on public works schemes were female. Women were the main
beneficiaries of the rural health component, which focused on lowering matemal mortality rates, whereas
the main beneficiaries of the basic education component were boys, who are under high pressure to drop
out of school to assist families with herding. Rural/urban balance was appropriate: aimag and sum centres
benefited mainly from credit and public works schemes whereas the rural population also benefited from
basic education, rural health and restocking. Although urban areas were not eligible under the education
and health components, each of the 9 urban districts of Ulaanbaatar benefited from an average of 13-14
public works schemes.
Although the resources utilised by the Income Generation component were modest, an estimated 20% of
total poor households benefited from temporary employment in public works and 4.5% benefited from
income-generating credit under VGO and IGF schemes. In addition, 4% of total dzud-affected households
in 5 severely-affected aimags were restocked, amounting to around a third of all households meeting the
eligibility criteria (such as poverty status). Moreover, with a total of 1,821 health, education and public
works schemes implemented, each of the country's 342 sums benefited on average from 4-5 different
schemes. Hence coverage of the poor was satisfactory in spite of relatively low coverage of the
income-generating credit scheme.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Income Generation
Outputs:
Under the Income Generation component, through the Local Development Fund, some 634 public works
projects have been completed (total cost $2.28 million) and 781 group loans extended (total lent $0.79
million). Under IGF, a further 2,002 household loans were extended (totalling $0.686 million) plus 1,728
loans for restocking of herders who lost most of their animals in the dzud. In addition, credit reflows from
PAVGP were channelled into district level revolving loan funds (RLFs), managed by local government,
from which some 1,370 additional loans have been made to date. Onlending from RLFs is expected to
continue well beyond project closing.
Impact:
Under the income generation component, 39,100 individuals (28% women) benefited directly from
temporary employment (27,430 in labour intensive public works and the rest in rehabilitation of basic
education or rural health facilities) for an average of 1.5 months each, an estimated 8,690 households
benefited from micro-credit for income-generating activities (54% women) and 1,728 poor herder
households that lost most of their animals in the 1999/00 dzud benefited from restocking. The lack of
baseline data at time of appraisal, however, precludes an accurate quantitative assessment of the overall
impact on household incomes.
-5-



A.1 Public Works
Under the Public Works (PW) sub-component, the project spent US$2.3 million on 634 small-scale,
labour-intensive infrastructure schemes - road and bridge repair, drinking water supplies, public
bath-houses, building renovation - covering every sum and khoroo in the country, at an average cost per
scheme of US$3,600. A total of 27,430 unemployed people (28% female) received short-term work for an
average of 6-weeks per person, resulting in about 41,500 person-months of paid employment at an average
cost of about $55 per person-month of labour. Although employment creation was far less than anticipated
at appraisal (SAR target was 700,000 person-months of temporary employment), this is largely attributable
to unrealistic expectations on the part of project designers, as the target was inappropriate for the VGO
credit (see below) and unrealistic at 1995 US$8 per person/month.
Although the SAR specified that wages would be set "slightly below the market rate " (para.3.16e) to
promote self-targeting, wages were actually set at the minimum rate or paid on a piece-rate basis, which
resulted in payments substantially above market rates. Beneficiaries were selected either by bag/sum
officials or by the MoSWL labour office from the list of registered unemployed. Informants agree that
beneficiaries were poor or very-poor and typically received about twice the prevailing poverty-line income.
The payment of wages above the minimum reduced the number of persons able to benefit, but had positive
impacts in both increasing the total income to labourers from the short-term work opportunities created,
and giving them a sense ofjob-satisfaction.
The main benefits of public works as perceived by communities were the infrastructure works themselves,
rather than of the temporary jobs created. Interviewees recognised that palliative short-term job creation
offers no solution to underlying economic problems. The PW schemes implemented vary considerably from
those with near 100% labour content and little long-term impact (e.g. garbage collection) to ones with
significant sustainable benefits (e.g. irrigation schemes for vegetable farmers or insulation of heating pipes
or road/bridge rehabilitation). Although the overall quality of works was satisfactory, the beneficiary
survey noted that the quality of some of the works was questionable, and this was confirmed during ICR
field visits. In tenns of sustainability, many of the public baths and some of the water points created are
being run on a cost-recovery basis and some bridges have toll arrangements. The longer-term impact of
both the small economic infrastructure and the public health schemes is likely to be at least as beneficial as
the short-term income supplements through job creation.
The design of the Public Works sub-component was appropriate for providing short-term employment
opportunities, if less so for addressing underlying development challenges. The number of temporary jobs
created (est. 41,500 person-months) and the average unit cost (est. $55 per person-month) were reasonable
in view of the longer-term benefits of most schemes.
A.2 The VGO and IGF Credit Schemes
Context. The design of the Vulnerable Group Organisation (VGO) credit scheme outlined in the SAR
(Annex 4A) called for the formation of VGOs comprising 20 to 25 very poor people in every bag (target
1,700 VGOs), each of which was required to have a management committee (although the leader could be
from outside the group) and to be a registered co-operative with its own bank account, controlled by the
VGO leader and accountant. Interest-free and collateral-free loans of up to $2,000 repayable over four
years would be made to each group to enable them to undertake agricultural, natural resource, community
service, handicraft or food production activities. The VGOs were expected to pay salaries to all their
members, with the total wage bill capped at 50% of the "cost" of each VGO project. The VGO concept
was thus for the project to finance new businesses which were expected, from the outset, to earn sufficient
- 6 -



income to pay wages for up to 25 poor people, with wages linked, apparently, to capital rather than
earnings, whilst making provision for the project loan to be re-paid starting from the second year.
From the outset, PAPO staff were concerned about the high transaction costs of VGO legal registration
(often requiring trips to UB) and opening of group bank accounts (considering that most bank branches
outside the major cities closed in 1998-99). Large loans were being made to group leaders - commonly
influential local elites - with insufficient feedback on benefit-sharing between leaders and group members.
The inclusion of 'cost-per-job' ratios in the application process encouraged substantial over-reporting of
beneficiary numbers. In other cases, the VGO loan was simply sub-divided amongst group members,
making monitoring and enforcement of repayment problematic. In many such cases, the beneficiaries "ate"
their share of the money, leaving the group leader with a heavy burden of loan repayment.
In mid-1998, in response to the recommendations of a December 1996 Mid-Term Evaluation of NPAP
commissioned by UNDP, the LDF VGO credit scheme was replaced by the Income Generation Fund
(IGF). The main improvements introduced were: devolving loan approval to sumlkhoroo level; reducing the
minimum size of loan 'groups' to 3 people; dropping reference to "salaries" and "cost-per-job"; reducing
the maximum loan size to $100 per group member (US$ 1,000 per group) and the term to 1 year; making
the loan payable at term with a 1% per month interest rate; and liberalising the loan purpose. Although
these changes were in the right direction, they stopped short of creating the basis for an effective and
self-sustaining micro-credit scheme. Incentives for timely loan payment remain low in the absence of peer
pressure mechanisms and possibility of second loans and the 1% p.m. interest rate is too small for
operational sustainability, or even to allow incentive payments to the local government staff responsible for
loan management, and the PAPO MIS is unsuitable for effective credit monitoring. Moreover, IGF
continues to lend to "groups" (many of which are members of the same household), making interpretation
of the loan portfolio, beneficiary impact and repayment responsibility difficult.
Outputs
Under the LDF VGO loan scheme, 781 group loans were extended for a total of US$0.79 million and under
IGF, a further 2,002 household or small group loans were extended totalling US$0.686 million (total 2,783
loans for US$1.477 million). Although the PAPO MIS (Annex  1I Tables) reports 6,222 beneficiaries for
VGO loans and 6,298 for IGF loans, when double counting was eliminated, the following estimate of actual
numbers of beneficiary households was obtained and has been endorsed by PAPO.
VGO/IGF Credit: Estimated Number of Direct Beneficiary Households
Scheme       No. of      Total Loan   Avg. Loan   Estimated avg. no. of    Total Poor HHs
First-Round  Amount ($)  Size (US$)   Poor HHs Benefiting'   Benefiting (2 *
Loans                              ,oer Loan              5)
VGO             781       790,428      1,012     6                        4,700
IGF           2,002       686,312        343     2                        4,000
VGO + IGF    2,783       1,476,740         _                              8,700
Not including secondary beneficiaries such as workers employed by loan recipients
These totals were fully discussed and agreed between the mission and PAPO.
In addition, funds recovered from all first-round loans (including those financed by other donors such as
- 7 -



SIDA) are channelled into district-level Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) managed by the sum and khoroo
authorities. Apparently, at least 5,000 second-round loans have been made to date, about half of which
could be attributed to reflows from PAVGP. If these funds are well managed, the remaining capital could
benefit a large number of additional households in the years to come.
Loan repayment rates of 48% (VGO) and 44% (IGF) are unsatisfactory. They are much lower than those
achieved by private micro-finance organizations such as XAC-Microstart (99%), whose clients, however,
tend to be less poor than PAVGP's. In the crisis-ridden commercial banking sector, only an estimated
30-40% of loans are bad or late. Because there is no system for ageing overdues, it is impossible to assess
what proportion of the initial loan fund is likely to be irrecoverable. Considering local govermnents'
commendable efforts to recover overdues (even resorting to the courts), a plausible estimate is that 60% of
the initial capital may eventually be recovered. However, it is a matter of considerable concern that the
VGO/IGF design has left local government and many poor households facing acute difficulties in deciding
how to treat the large number of bad loans outstanding at project closing.
Recent modifications of the sum-level Revolving Loan Schemes in aimags such as Domogobi are an
improvement over existing income-generating credit schemes . Loan administration and recovery is handled
by full-time loan officers who are either paid by local government or receive a share of the interest on the
loans they recover. Interest rates have been raised to 3% per month, of which 1% is devolved to loan
officers as an incentive for loan recovery and 1% is paid into a risk fund to cover bad debts. Although
modifications of this type should be encouraged, even this falls short of micro-finance good practices. The
future options for revolving loan funds (RLFs) could include the integration of the RLFs into the current
financial system and/or granting them legal status.
Impact:
The beneficiary survey and ICR field visits confirm that most borrowers have made successful use of their
loans and that poor households succeeded in setting-up relatively successful vegetable production, boot and
firniture-making, catering and food-processing enterprises. On the estimate that 60% of project borrowers
succeed in establishing new enterprises, the number of sustainable new household businesses created from
the first-round loans is about 5,200 (8,700 * 60%). With the estimated total number of poor households in
Mongolia at 190,000 , the proportion of poor households "lifted out of poverty" by the VGO/IGF
sub-component is therefore about 2.7%. The ICR beneficiary assessment confirmed that training of
beneficiaries in simple business management skills could have increased the credit irnpact. The performance
of IGF beneficiaries who received such training through a parallel SIDA project was better than that of
IDA project beneficiaries who did not receive such training.
Conclusion:
The credit schemes under the 'productive activities' sub-component of Income Generation were the most
problematic and disappointing element of the project, due to poor design, compounded by the failure of
IDA and other NPAP donors to provide professional micro-finance advice to PAPO, despite the clearly
identified need for such support. Although beneficial modifications to the original VGO design were made
in mid-1998 with the creation of IGF, these changes came too late and were too minor to redress the
fundamental weaknesses of the original design or to increase benefits and impact significantly. The
outcome was that, by project closing, achievements in tenrs ofjob creation, business development, the
introduction of sound micro-credit principles, and poverty alleviation, were well below what they could and
should have been.
-8 -



A.3 Restocking
Outputs:
Under the Restocking sub-component, over 95,000 animals were delivered to 1,728 poor herder
households severely affected by the 1999/2000 dzud in 5 aimags. Livestock were mostly sheep and goats,
because: (a) small ruminants are cheaper to buy, thereby enabling more herders to be assisted; (b) they
require relatively less feed and upkeep compared to caffle; and (c) owing to faster reproduction, they are
quicker to generate a cashflow. The average beneficiary received 40 sheep and 15 goats (99% smallstock)
at an average cost of US$390 per household. Field visits confirmed Bank supervision assessments that the
selection process through an open bag (or sub-district) assembly meeting was highly transparent and fair,
targeting was satisfactory and that the animals procured were of good quality. Beneficiaries were pleased
that the project had insured their animals and that veterinary services were being provided. In contrast to
the highly problematic flow of funds through Agriculture Bank over 1998-99, owing to its insolvency and
the wider crisis in the banking sector, the transfer of funds to sums through the Postbank was rapid and
efficient. The main complaint came from officials who reported that the prices demanded by local livestock
sellers were unnecessarily high' because payment was not in cash on the spot, but deferred until the animals
had been inspected and accepted by the beneficiaries. In spite of the notable achievements, only 20-40% of
total applicants meeting some or all project selection criteria could be covered (or 4% of total dzud-affected
households in the 5 severely-affected aimags).
Impact:
Although it is too soon to assess impact (loan repayments only start in 2003), local governments are
concerned that the 2001 dzud could have a negative impact on loan recovery. This is only a limited problem
in Ovorkhangai, where, as of 10 April 2001, only 3% of animals given for restocking under PAVGP were
reported lost. Although comparable figures are not yet available for losses among restocking beneficiaries
the other aimags, much higher rates of animal losses have been recorded this year in project sums in
Zavkhan (12.5%) and Uvs (4.2%). The implication is that that pastoral risk needs to be addressed to
improve sustainability of restocking efforts.
B. Basic Education
Outputs:
A total of 453 sub-projects have been financed in Basic Education (total cost $1.56 million) and each of
the country's rural districts has benefited at least once.
Impact:
The Basic Education component aimed to increase school enrolment from 70 to 85% nation-wide, by
reducing the non-enrolment and dropout rate, especially among children of poor herders in remote rural
areas. During the course of the project, the enrolment rate increased from 77.5% in 1995 to 93.8% in 1999
(see Annex 12) and there is broad consensus that PAVGP's contribution was substantial. The return of
school enrolment to pre-transition levels was largely due to improvement brought about by basic education
schemes in the quality, comfort and safety of school buildings and dormitories, which persuaded many
herders to keep their children in school. The mission's field visits confirned that works were generally of
-9-



good quality, facilities are greatly appreciated by teachers, parents and students, and that dormitory
capacity provided by the project is fully utilised. An added bonus of heating system renovation has been a
30-35% reduction in heating costs.
C. Rural Health
Outputs:
Under the Rural Health component, 522 sub-projects were financed for rehabilitation of services (total
cost $0.895 million) and 212 ambulances distributed to remote rural sums (total cost $1.02 million). Apart
from ambulances, which absorbed over half of total funds, the bulk of IDA support was allocated to
hospital building and heating system renovation and rehabilitation of matemal rest homes, with each of the
country's rural distncts benefiting from an average of 2-3 sub-projects.
Impact:
The Rural Health component aimed to reduce matemal and infant mortality rates (MMR/IMR) to
pre-transition levels. These activities were appropriate for achieving the project objective but the choice of
impact indicator was less appropriate because it is influenced by factors beyond project control. Between
1994 and 2000, IMR decreased from 46.8 to 31.2 per 1,000 but MMR only decreased from 21.2 deaths
per 10,000 live births in 1994 to 17.5 in 1999 . Although the appraisal target for MMR (12/10,000) was
only partially achieved, there is broad consensus that the project made a major contribution, especially in
rural areas
D. Support for the Disabled
Outputs
The project provided $180,000 to procure training, exercise and audio-visual equipment and stocks of
vitamins for 19 Centres for the Disabled serving a total of about 3,800 people. This far exceeded the SAR
target of assisting 600 people in 4 institutions.
Impact:
As a result of project-financed training equipment, an estimated I ,300 disabled adults acquired
professional skills and around 290 to date have found employment. Most of the remaining beneficiaries
were disabled children. As a result of project-financed hearing aids, wheelchairs and artificial limbs, many
of these children are now attending public schools.
E. Institutional Support
Outputs:
To build PAPO's and APACs' management, implementation and monitoring capacities, UNDP and GoM,
using the proceeds from the IDA credit, provided funding for TA coordinated by UJNDP. Under the IDA
credit, intemational consultancies for design of the MIS and financial accounting systems were undertaken.
However, capacity constraints were only partly addressed (professional advice on micro-finance was
requested but not provided). According to PAPO, some of the IDA-fimded consultant advice was too
- 10 -



sophisticated for local conditions.
Impact:
Although the IDA credit only covered a fraction of NPAP's total capacity-building and operating costs, the
objective of developing umbrella organisations capable of managing local and external assistance for the
NPAP was successfully achieved, especially at national and at aimag/duureg level. Capacity building at
district level was incomplete, because the responsibility for identifying, contracting and monitoring
sub-projects and managing RLFs originally rested with aimags and its decentralisation to sum and khoroo
level was not foreseen at design. Capacity building at sum, khoroo and beneficiary level therefore needs
further attention.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As sub-projects to be financed could not be identified in advance and most of the project costs were
incurred for public works, rural health, basic education and support for disabled people, the SAR stated
that cost/benefit analysis was not applicable. Accordingly, no attempt was made to calculate ERR/NPV at
ICR either. In terms of the cost effectiveness of project interventions, the procedures for the public works
under the project were the same as for other comparable public works, and unit costs were within the cost
range for comparable projects implemented by the government or other agencies. On the other hand, under
the "productive activities" sub-component, credit repayment rates were unsatisfactory (4448%). The
interest rates paid by borrowers were negative (interest-free loans) until the scheme was redesigned in
mid-1998. Currently, the IGF and RLF interest rates (12%-36% per annum) are positive in real terms
compared with an (official) inflation rate of 10% per annum. Given the quality and gaps in available data,
it was not possible to assess portfolio quality, efficiency and profitability of the credit fund.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
See above
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although the project did not have explicit policy or institutional development objectives, it succeeded in
putting poverty reduction on the national agenda and in building a strong institutional network in support of
project implementation, articulated on three levels - national, aimag/duureg and sumlkhoroo. In addition, it
enhanced the capacity of local government staff to identify, prioritise, implement and monitor small
projects and to handle contracting and procurement. The project's bottom-up approach to sub-project
identification and prioritisation is reported to have influenced normal government practice. It has also
created a favourable environment for growth of small-scale, local-level private contractors and for
consulting frms specialised in poverty-related monitoring and survey work. In spite of initial weaknesses in
the VGO credit scheme, capacity of APACs and SPACs to manage micro-credit and revolving loan funds
has gradually been built up.
The fact that the IGF scheme repayment rate is even lower than that of the VGO scheme may be due to the fact
that the IGF portfolio was only 50% due at December 2000, and a larger share of IGF non-repayment, compared
to VGO loans which are 77% due, is therefore likely to be late rather than bad.
For the sum/khoroo "Revolving Loan Funds" the reported repayment rate (20%) refers the proportion of
recoveries against disbursements, not against dues, and is therefore effectively meaningless.
7.
LSMS 1998 (NSO 1999)
- 11 -



Especially in Dundgobi and Ovorkhangai aimags.
Source: Aimag fact sheets downloaded from UN website on the 1999/2000 dzud disaster.
,0
Source: FAO Emergency Assessment Mission and State Emergency Commission, 26 March 2001.
Source: Ministry of Health (note: IMR for 2000 had been announced at time of ICR preparation but not yet
MMR).
MMR is currently higher in Ulaanbaatar and urban centres not covered by the project than it is in most rural
areas.
A survey covering 10 institutes for the disabled reported that an average of 70 adults per institute completed
vocational training, 15 of whom found employment.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Continuing Economic Crisis. Much of the current political debate on poverty in Mongolia concerns the
perceived failure of NPAP to reduce poverty (as measured by LSMS surveys). PAPO, on the other hand,
argues that NPAP has not failed but that its multiplier effect is greatly reduced in the absence of
broad-based, inclusive and labour-intensive economic growth. Achievement of NPAP's ambitious goal of
reducing the poverty headcount ratio to 10% by 2000 was based on the assumption that after the transition
GDP growth would quickly resume. Although GDP growth has partially resumed, economic recovery was
slower and less broad-based than anticipated. Insofar as gains in social sectors may be offset by growing
unemployment and economic deterioration in other sectors, the impact of PAVGP on poverty is difficult to
quantify. Crisis in the financial sector more broadly throughout the period of project implementation
severely impeded sound financial management in ways that lay beyond the capacity of the implementing
agencies to control.
Natural Calamities. Two severe dzuds in 1999/00 and 2000/01 increased poverty among rural herders
throughout large areas of the country.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Rigidity of the VGO Credit Scheme. At GoM's insistence, Schedule 4 of the IDA Development Credit
Agreement specified that sub-projects for productive activities would have "a repayment period not
exceeding 4 years, a grace period of 1 year and no interest " and that any change in the sub-project types,
eligibility or appraisal criteria, lending terms, allocation of credit funds between aimags and sums and
procurement or disbursement would be subject to prior approval by GoM and IDA. This contributed to an
18-month delay in revising the VGO credit scheme.
Counterpart Funds. Shortages of counterpart finance caused serious disbursement delays until 1999 and
led Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) to engage in unauthorised "borrowing" from the project
special account on two occasions to pay public sector salaries. Shortage of local government finance for
O&M of public works continues to be a problem. Since the project did not foresee the need to cover
incremental operating costs at aimag and sum level, access of APAC secretaries to transport is highly
variable, depending on personal relations with the Governor and the level of importance given to the project
by local authorities.
Institutional Conflicts. The statement in the SAR that the PMU would be ".... an autonomous entity under
the supervision of NPAC, reporting directly to the Minister of MoPPL in his capacity as Deputy
Chairman ofNPAC' was interpreted differently by different stakeholders. MoPPL considered PAPO to be
under its own authority, whereas the donors considered PAPO to be an autonomous entity under NPAC,
reporting directly to the Prime Minister as NPAC's Chairman. MoPPL/MoSWL's repeated efforts to block
- 12-



decisions taken by PAPO through NPAC were disruptive to implementation. In an effort to resolve the
issue, in early 1996, under pressure from the WB, UNDP, ADB and the PMU staff, GoM issued a
statement that PAPO would thereafter report directly to the Prime Minister, in his capacity as Chairman of
NPAC, thus making PAPO operationally independent of the MoSWL.
Staff Turnover. Mongolia's tradition of changing government staff after every election posed a challenge
for project continuity. Although nearly all members of NPAC changed after last year's election, it is to
PAPO's credit that the new government agreed - in the interest of continuity - not to change the APAC
secretaries. However, high turnover and low incentive of PAC members continues to be a problem at sum
and khoroo level.
Auditing. No provision was made in the Credit Agreement to finance audits from the proceeds of the
credit. Until 1999, audits were conducted by the State Audit Board, which the Bank by 1999 judged not to
be qualified to conduct audits to the required standard. Following a 1999 Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR) meeting, this issue began to be addressed at country level with separate IDA financing.
Project audits were adversely affected by these circumstances. While all audits were ultimately found to be
acceptable, they were delivered late in 1998 and 1999. The highly decentralized nature of PAVGP required
a higher capacity in auditing than was available in Mongolia during the life of the project, and errors on the
part of auditors - later corrected - suggested a lower standard of project financial management than was in
fact the case.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementing Agency Culture. PAPO staffs strong commitment and dedication to poverty alleviation
and their initiative, determination and extremely hard work, as well as their flexibility and ability to learn
from experience, were critical for steering the project through external shocks and crises.
Information Management. Deficiencies in infornation management make it difficult for PAPO to
demonstrate the project's impact on poverty. The existing MIS is unsuitable for monitoring a credit
programme. Considerable resources were spent on developing a system of participatory M&E, which
generates useful impact information - for instance, on numbers of households lifted out of poverty.
However, due to the absence of linkage between participatory M&E and the MIS, this important
information is not used to inform management decisions.
Financial Management. In light of the prevailing economic crisis in Mongolia and its adverse impact on
the banking sector, the unauthorized 'borrowing' from the special account by MOFE, and weaknesses in
country auditing capacity, project-level financial management was reasonably sound.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Costs. Project costs at appraisal did not correspond to pre-identified investments, but rather to programmes
that could be expanded or contracted according to demand and implementation capacity. Actual total costs
of the project are very close to those estimated at appraisal. The IDA credit fund agreement in terms of
disbursement accounts and categories was amended several times in the course of project implementation to
respond to the emergent need of restocking in the aftermath of 1999/2000 dzud and other developments.
Disbursement was slow in the first three years of project implementation due to frequent changes of
govermnent, controversy over the PAPO's status, and the cycle-based sub-project implementation and
special account replenishment arrangement. Although the project was intended to be quick disbursing, the
requirement of complete expenditure documentation from all aimags as a condition for release of each new
tranche of funds forced it to move at the speed of the slowest-reporting aimag. As a result of slow
- 13 -



disbursement, the project was extended twice to the current closing date of Dec. 31, 2000.
Funding. Due to changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and the US dollar, IDA Credit funds
available to the project amounted to US$8.85 million, or 88% of the appraisal estimate. At appraisal, the
total project cost was estimated at US$10.53 million without physical and price contingencies (as specific
sub-projects could not be identified a priori). IDA credit amounted to US$ 8.85 million, which is - after
adjusting for US dollar/SDR exchange rate - very close to SDR 6.5 million (US$ 10 million equivalent) as
estimated at appraisal.
6. Sustainability
61 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall, sustainability is judged to be likely. The staffing and resourcing of clinics, schools and other
services renovated by the project is currently good, and is likely to be maintained. Sustainability of health,
education and public works sub-projects was to be ensured by involving local stakeholders in their
identification, selection and construction and by requiring that local government ensure sufficient recurrent
budget allocation for operation and maintenance of proposed works as a condition for their approval by
SPACs and APACs. Although this principle is sound and has largely been adhered to, local governments
continue to experience shortages of funds for recurrent costs.
The sustainability of the VGO enterprises established under the original credit scheme is doubtful. Most
VGOs were formned to satisfy the requirements of the poorly designed group credit scheme and
subsequently fell apart because of unequal capacities and divergent interests of group members, lack of
transparency and domination by group leaders. The enterprises established through household loans under
the Income Generating Fund (IGF) are more solid and roughly two-thirds are estimated to be sufficiently
profitable to make them sustainable. In spite of strong local government commitment to ensuring the
sustainability of the Revolving Loan Funds established at sum level from micro-credit repayments, in most
cases, the capital is gradually eroding due to incomplete loan recovery. It is too soon to assess the financial
viability and sustainability of herder restocking because loan repayment will only begin in 2003.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project has laid a solid foundation for a follow-up programme that can build on the successes and
improve on the weak areas of the first. As a follow-on to PAVGP, a second phase is planned, with a new
title - Sustainable Livelihoods - to enhance emphasis on local initiative and self-reliant development at
community and district levels.' The proposed project - which incorporates lessons from PAVGP's
experience - would have three main components in addition to institutional support: (a) pastoral risk
management; (b) community investment fund (CIF); and (c) nural micro-finance. For the management of
the CIF, the SL project would build upon the implementation capacity created within PAPO and within
local PACs, whereas micro-finance would be the responsibility of appropriate specialised financial
institutions and pastoral risk would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MoFA).
Sustainability of the project investments might be enhanced by: (a) reviewing local government methods for
planning, budgeting and financing building and equipment maintenance and other non-staff recurrent cost
items; (b) fielding a micro-finance specialist to review the current status and operation of the 342 local
government Revolving Loan Funds and to advise on simple systems, procedures and formats to extend their
expected life and impact; and (c) by reducing pastoral risk.
- 14 -



14
It was felt that the approach reflected by the old project title - Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups -
tends to perpetuate vulnerability and encourage dependency on Government to solve problems.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank support for project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory, even though the VGO credit scheme
design was unsatisfactory. Although the origin of the faulty credit design is unclear", in hindsight, a
number of aspects of the design were contrary to Bank policy and established good practice at the time
(interest-free loans, credit administration by a PMU). The use of pilot projects as a basis for design was
commendable.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated quality of supervision for FY1999 as marginally
satisfactory in spite of high turnover among task managers . However, had the QAG/Rapid Supervision
Assessment been done during the previous two years, it might have been judged unsatisfactory, since there
was only one site visit between late 1996 and spring 1998, in spite of serious problems with disbursement,
unsatisfactory ratings on implementation progress for income generation and support for the disabled,
shortage of local counterpart funds, unauthorised "borrowing" of project funds by MoFE and escalation of
conflict with MoSWL over PAPO's autonomy. Satisfactory supervision resumed in mid-1999 with the
appointment of a full-time task manager. The Borrower rates Bank supervision as satisfactory and cites the
action plan drawn up in July 1998 as particularly helpful. Hence the overall rating on Bank supervision is
satisfactory in spite of weakness in 1997-1998.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance of the Bank in project lending and supervision was satisfactory, in spite of the
unsatisfactory design of the credit scheme and failure to provide micro-finance expertise to the
implementing agency.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in drafting the PIP and PIMs was satisfactory, in spite of the weakness of the credit
scheme design.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall Government implementation performance was satisfactory. However, had GoM been more
proactive and vigorous in defending PAPO's autonomy as a multi-sectoral institution serving as a
Secretariat to NPAC and reporting directly to the Prime Minister, disruption to project implementation
would have been greatly reduced.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Considering the poor initial design and lack of professional micro-finance advice, PAPO and local
government implementers did a satisfactory job of adapting and implementing the scheme. The
- 15 -



implementing agencies' commitment to poverty reduction and their ability to learn from experience has
been highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory. Although central-level commitment to the project was
undermined at times by institutional rivalries, this was offset by the highly satisfactory performance of the
implementing agencies.
'5
No credit scheme was foreseen at Identification or Preparation. It was added at appraisal, as a consequence of
April 1994 negotiations between GoM and the Bank on the draft PIP. Apparently GoM made project approval
conditional on the introduction of a productive component. The detailed design of the VGO credit scheme was
agreed at these negotiations. It is not clear whether the design came from GoM or the Bank.
6PAVGP was supervised by three different task managers in calendar year 1999.
- 16 -



8. Lessons Learned
The Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project was a timely and rapid response to the economic
and social problems of the vulnerable poor during Mongolia's transition to a market economy. Its success
under difficult conditions during a period of economic transition can be attributed to:
a highly committed and dedicated implementing agency at national level;
*    PAPO's and local government's capacity to learn from experience;
*    the use of an existing network of local government institutions at aimag and sum level as a
delivery mechanism - which allowed the project to work efficiently in spite of severe constraints
such as low population density, scattered settlement, seasonal population movements, harsh
winter conditions and poorly-developed transportation and communication networks;
*    the introduction of a bottom-up approach to project identification and implementation
(previously unknown in the former command economy);
*    the trust placed in local government's capacity to identify, contract, supervise and report on
public works schemes and basic education and rural health projects;
*   the cross-sectoral approach that allowed districts a choice between health, education, public
works and income generating credit; and
-   the emphasis on making certain that funding was in place for O&M of whatever structures and
services were rehabilitated by the project.
In the context of the project's achievements, the shortcomings identified in this report are relatively
minor and are attributable more to weaknesses in project design than to deficiencies in local
implementation. Some important lessons from implementation experience are listed below.
Successful implementation of a bottom-up, demand-driven approach is facilitated by open public
meetings at grassroots level. The restocking component achieved broad-based and inclusive community
participation in beneficiary selection because it worked through the lowest unit of local government - the
bag assembly. Decision making for other components was less broad-based, since project selection was
heavily influenced by Government department heads and NGOs in their capacity as SPAC members.
- 17 -



The establishment of a cross-sectoral implementing agency (such as PAPO) facilitates poverty project
implementation but creates conflicts and uncertainty.
*   Lack of clarity about PAPO's autonomy from MoPPL/MoSWL was a source of continual
organisational conflict throughout the life of the project. PAPO was certainly an effective
implementation unit as an autonomous entity under the Prime Minister's office. Whether project
performance would have been better or worse if PAPO had remained a PMU within a line
ministry is unknown. The lesson is that donors need to be exceptionally careful before requiring
governments to adopt specially-created institutional arrangements for project implementation.
*   Decentralisation of project management responsibility can be an effective way of overcoming
institutional blockages at national level. Although controversy over PAPO's autonomy hindered
implementation at central level, it was not a serious problem at aimag level and below.
*   Although PAPO's autonomy may have reduced its leverage over line ministry policy and
expenditure allocation at central level, because of its bottom-up approach, the project's influence
over Government procedures and expenditure allocation at local level was greater than it might
have been if project funding had been channelled through the line ministries.
*   Since poverty reduction is an issue that transcends sectoral boundaries, the proper location for a
poverty programme PMU is either under the Prime Minister or in a cross-sectoral ministry such
as Finance, Planning or Local Government. A social sector ministry was a poor initial choice. If
a sectoral ministry is given responsibility for a pilot programme, it is likely to resist efforts to
shift the programme elsewhere for the investment phase.
The creation or rehabilitation of local infrastructure can have a quick and direct impact on income
earning opportunities and standards of living. However, the temporary employment created by
public works programmes is too short to have significant impact on livelihoods of the poor.
Nonetheless, labour intensive public works can be an effective way of reaching the extreme poor who are
unable to benefit from income-generating credit.
Sustainable access to credit for the poor requires the creation of a rural finance system. Local
government bodies can help channel funds to the target group but constitute an inappropriate
institutional base for micro-banking.
*   Credit and micro-finance interventions require professional design. When an operational bank
with a branch structure, or a specialist micro-finance company, is not available (as in Mongolia
in 1995), and another institution has to be developed to implement credit (such as local
government in the case of PAVGP), specialist design assistance is even more essential.
Although sums and khoroos have shown a keen interest in management of the revolving funds
created from credit reflows, there is no prospect of these arrangements making more than a
temporary and minor contribution to the overall demand from the poor for credit. There are no
known international examples of sustainable credit activities implemented through local
government.
A diversified menu of activities is needed for reaching different socio-economic categories among the
poor: micro-credit is appropriate for the bankable poor in the urban slums and peri-urban centres,
restocking for bankable herder households, labour-intensive public works for the able-bodied unemployed
poor, rehabilitation and vocational training for the disabled, and targeted social assistance for the aged and
mentally unfirm.
- 18-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Prior to the mission's arrival, the implementing agency completed its own ICR (see supporting list of
documentation), which was an extremely valuable input to the mission's work. There is substantial
consensus between the present ICR report and the PAPO ICR. All data presented in the ICR have been
thoroughly discussed and agreed with PAPO. The team's conclusions were presented and lessons learnt
discussed at three interlocking national stakeholder workshops, one with Core Learning Team members,
another with key informants that played important roles in NPAP implementation, and finally at an NPAC
meeting chaired by the Prime Minister (see Annex 9). The draft ICR was sent to the borrower for comment
on 8 May and the comments received on 11 May are fully reflected in the present text.
(X) Cofinanciers:
In the absence of cofinanciers, UNDP's opinion was sought because of its lead role in NPAP formulation
and because it provided parallel financing for capacity building in support of PAVGP.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGOs were consulted on all levels through interlocking stakeholder workshops at sum/khoroo,
aimag/duureg and national level. The private sector was represented at the national stakeholder workshops.
10. Additional Information
Tables summarizing project achievements from the PAPO MIS database are attached - see Annex 11.
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lndicatorNMatx           P| Pected In last PR                            Acu/a     Estmae
Income per job; matemal mortality, and  Output indicators were broadly defined but
school enrolment.                     not quantified
- Income Generation
- Income per job                     Not quantified                        10,000-15,000 Tg/person/month
Job created                         0.7 million person-months             15,000 long-term jobs and 39,000 short-term
jobs
- Basic Education
- School Enrolment                 From 70% to 85%                       Increased to 93.8% from 77..5%
Rural Health
- Maternal Mortality Rate            Reduce MMR from 24 to 12 per 1000 births  MMR reduced to 15.7 per 1000 births
Support for the Disabled
- No. of disabled trained             600 directly benefited                698 persons received vocational training, 758
benefited from physical rehabilitation.
Income of disabled trained            Not qualified                         N.A.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   PrJectd irn ast PSR                   Ae Etate
Income Generation
Public works
Road repairs                                                               91
Bridge repairs                                                             61
Construcion renovation/dam cleaning                                        46
Renovation of buildings                                                    92
Drinking water system                                                      85
Public heating system repairs                                              25
Public shower and bath                                                     62
Environmental sanitation and forestry                                      52
Fuel collection                                                            25
Garbage collection                                                         59
Ground preparation                                                         20
Exploration natural resources                                              3
Others                                                                    13
Micro-credit                                                                2783
No. of loans                         Not quantified
Job created                          Not quantified                        15,000 long-term jobs and 39,000 short-term
jobs
No. of VGOs established              Not quantified
Basic Education
Heating system/renovation                                                  257
Strengthening sum school subsidiaries                                      13
Open Bag school                                                            5
Sum school/dorm. Electricity supply                                        17
Dormitory renovation/heating                                               120
Rural Health
Hospital transport (No. of ambulances)                                     219
No. of Feldshers                                                           43
Heating system/renovation                                                  183
Matemity Homes                                                             187
Support for the Disables
Training equipment                   4 institutions to benefit             19 institutions received special training
equipment
Training                                                                   698 persons received vocational training.
758 benefited from physical rehabilitabon.
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    U$$ million
Income Generation                                    5.94           5.22            88
Education                                            2.00           1.56            78
Health                                               2.00           1.92            96
Support for Disabled                                 0.20           0.18            90
Insitutional Support                                 0.39           0.44            113
Total Baseline Cost                                 10.53           9.32
Total Project Costs            10.53            9.32
Total Financing Required             10.53           9.32
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB        Procurement Method           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          9.34         0.00         9.34
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00          0.80         0.00         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.10         0.00         0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Operating Costs           0.00         0.00          0.29         0.00         0.29
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         10.53         0.00        10.53
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
l                                ~~~~~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICa            NC8          othol2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           8.18           0.00          8.18
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.70           0.00          0.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.10           0.00          0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Operating Costs               0.00           0.00           0.34           0.00          0.34
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00
Total                         0.00           0.00           9.32           0.00           9.32
_______________________ =(0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national and international shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Co mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Component       _      Appraisd fornate              Actual/Ltest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal
Bank      Govt       CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Income Generation         5.70      0.24                 5.09       0.13               89.3   54.2
Education                 2.00                           1.56                          78.0
Health                    2.00                           1.92                          96.0
Support for Disabled      0.20                           0.18                          90.0
Institutional Support     0.10      0.29                 0.10       0.34              100.0  117.2
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage ofProect Cycle                   N o.of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
; 7- ;  R:0-   y ;:;;;.  f,     fi ti 9(e.g. 2 sEconomists 1 EMPS, tetc.)0 :   I:Implementation   Development
MonthYear   Count             Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
5/94                        4   E, Ed, B, M
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/94                       1   Ed
11/94                       6   B, C, E, 21, M
Supervision
5/96                         3   2E, K                               S               S
12/96                       1   E                                    U               S
09/97                        2   A, E                                S               S
03/98                        1   E                                   S               S
6/98                         2   E, D                                S               S
1/99                        3   E, G, N                              S               S
9/99                         3   H, N/F, E                           S               S
12/99                       2   E, N/F                               S               S
4/00                         4   H, 1, K, N/F                        S               S
8/00                        2   G, N/F                               S               S
ICR
3/01                        4    A, 2E, N/F                          S               S
A      - Anthropologist
B      - Operations Analyst
C      - Engineer
D      - MIS Specialist
E      - Economist
Ed     - Education Specialist
F      - Social Scientist
G      - Livestock Specialist
H      - Rural Poverty Specialist
I      - Financial Management Specialist
K      - Project Management Specialist
L      - Lawyer
M      - Health Specialist
N      - Natural Resource Management Specialist
- 24 -



(b) Staff.
I     Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 124                           212
Appraisal/Negotiation                       56                            85
Supervision                                139                           330
ICR                                         19                            81
Total                                      338                           708
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
0 Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
E Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  C NA
I Institutional Development               C H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
E0 Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
L Gender                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0I Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
LI Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
LI Supervision                                       O HS * S   OU   OHU
O Overall                                            OHS IDS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS * S  O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U   O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Borrower Implementation Completion Report - Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project - IDA
Credit No. 2760-MOG. 13 April 2001.
Independent Evaluation of NPAP and Options Post-2000. UNDP/World Bank, Oct. 1999.
National Poverty Alleviation Programme - Evaluation Mission Team Report. UNDP/OPS, December
1996.
Survey on the Vulnerable Groups Income Generation Project, by Women's Information and Research
Centre, 1998.
Report on the Survey and Evaluation of Newly Created Jobs within NPAP Income Generating Projects, by
Centre for Social Development Consulting Unit, by Institute of Philosophy, Sociology and Rights of
Mongolia, 1998.
Primary Education in Rural Areas (Research Report), by the Institute of Philosophy, Sociology and Rights
of Mongolia, 1998.
Assessment Research on Activities under PAP for Improving Rural Health Services in Mongolia, by
National University of Mongolia, Population Teaching and Research Centre, 1999.
National Poverty Alleviation Programme - Mid-term Report: Oct 1997-June 1998, NPAP/PAPO.
National Poverty Alleviation Programme - Annual report 1998, NPAP/PAPO (Dec. 1998).
National Poverty Alleviation Programme - Annual report 1999, NPAP/PAPO (Dec. 1999).
NSO (1999). National Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) 1998.
NSO/World Bank, Participatory Living Standards Assessment - [Draft] Sept. 2000.
Hunt, Simon - Mongolia: Participatory Living Standards Assessment - Complementary Analysis of the
Living Standards Measurement Surveys, March 2000.
World Bank, Mongolia - Sustainable Livelihoods Project, PID, No. PID9725, 11/28/00
World Bank, Mongolia - Sustainable Livelihoods Project, PCD.
World Bank, Mongolia - Mongolia: Country Assistance Evaluation - Infornal Discussion Draft, OED,
March 5th, 2001.
World Bank (1996). Poverty Assessment in a Transition Economy. June 1996.
World Bank, Mongolia - Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project - FY99 Rapid Supervision
Assessment. World Bank Quality Assurance Group, July 8, 1999.
- 28 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
1.    In preparation for the original project closing date in mid-1999, four beneficiary surveys (on
income generating credit, job creation, basic education and rural health were undertaken by local institutes
under contract from PAPO with funding from other NPAP donors, as an input for the Independent
Evaluation of the NPAP umbrella programme'. Given that four beneficiary surveys had already been done
on the main project components, the FAO/CP ILI team leader decided not to commission yet another
questionnaire survey, but, in lieu of a survey, to organise a participatory evaluation of PAVGP through a
stakeholder workshop-based approach (see Annex 10 for methodology and process).
2.    In preparation for the ICR mission, a comprehensive series of stakeholder workshops,
commissioned by FAO/CP through PAPO, were carried out by local PACs in 17 provinces (aimags), 9
urban districts (duuregs), 51 rural districts (sums) and 20 urban sub-districts (khoroos) with a total of
2,340 participants. The workshops used participatory techniques to assess the perceived impact of PAVGP
on the livelihoods of beneficiaries and to identify strengths and weaknesses of each project component.
3.     The stakeholder workshops were preceded by training of APAC secretaries in participatory
evaluation methods. The training was organised and carried out by B. Enkhbat, Director, Consulting Unit,
and R. Gantumur, Director, Centre for Social Development and took place in Ulaanbaatar. Most APAC
secretaries had already been trained in PRA and participatory M&E, but their initial levels of competence
varied. At the end of the training, the APAC secretaries returned to the aimags, where they trained the
SPAC secretaries to carry out PRAs and participatory evaluation.
4.     Each stakeholder workshop lasted for one full day. The participants in the sum-level stakeholder
workshops included representatives of direct beneficiaries (>50%), SPAC members and local authorities
representing a wide range of rural bags. Half of workshop participants were women. Women beneficiaries,
men beneficiaries and officials worked in separate groups and their replies were disaggregated throughout
the exercise.
5.     The key questions addressed at sum-level stakeholder workshops are listed below. SWOT analysis
was done separately for each component, culminating in a sum-level synthesis across components (for
details see Annex 10).
*     Positive impacts on beneficiaries (household level, local government level);
*     Negative impacts (household or community level, local government level);
*     Unexpected impacts (if any - environmental, social, economic, institutional);
*      Strengths (of PAVGP);
*     Weaknesses (of PAVGP);
*      Opportunities (for future poverty alleviation efforts);
*     Threats (which could undermine impact or sustainability of benefits);
*     Lessons leamt.
6.     The sum-level stakeholder workshops fed into aimag-level stakeholder workshops, attended by
representatives of direct beneficiaries, sum officials, aimag-level officials, the aimag-level PAPO officer,
the national UNV and any participating NGOs. The questions discussed were the same as for the sum but
with a strong emphasis on building consensus among different sums in order to have a cornmon point of
view for the aimag as a whole.
- 29 -



7.     Findings from the 17 aimags and 9 urban districts were analysed jointly by PAPO staff,
Consulting Unit and Centre for Social Development in a two-day participatory analysis session, with
participation of the ICR mission. The section on "findings" below and the SWOT analysis table below
draws on a synthesis of key findings - in English - prepared by B. Enkhbat, Consulting Unit and R.
Gantumur, Centre for Social Development.
Findings
Positive impacts of PAVGP
Local government level (as reported by officials):
*     Improvement of districts
*     Impact on holding unemployment
*     Officials learnt to make priority setting in terms of projects selection and implementation
*     Improvement of infrastructure and water supply
     Decreased matemal and infant mortality, decrease in school drop out
Community level (as reported by beneficiaries):
*     borrowers learned basic business skills
*     skills on project design and implementation
*     new sources of income developed
-     working capital
-     some households got indebted and cannot repay
Negative impacts of PAVGP
Local government level:
-     low loan repayment due to poor design of the VGO scheme
e     some got indebted
Unexpected outcomes
-     cost escalation eroded the size of sub-projects more than local government expected
-     natural disasters ( dzud) have been a setback (not only did herders lose most of their
animals but the overall decrease in purchasing power of the poor is affecting the viability of
many small non-farm enterprises)
*     the dzud accelerated migration from the countryside to urban outskirts, leading to increased
poverty in slums
Perceived Impact at Beneficiary Level
8.    Impact on Income. According to beneficiaries, income increased between the without and with
project situation, and a significant part of the increase was attributable to income-generating activities
launched by PAVGP. Women beneficiaries reported that they learned to adjust to the market economy; the
project increased financial resources at their disposal and that they got valuable training in micro-credit and
basic business management skills. The latter was financed by other donors (SIDA, UNDP) but was
perceived as being connected with PAVGP. Male beneficiaries reported that provision of small credits
increased income. Officials reported that the project contributed to poverty reduction.
9.    Income Stability. Income stability also increased as a result of the project. Women beneficiaries
- 30 -



report that their income is more stable than before, because they learned how to earn an income of their
own, and they learned how to budget their expenditure and to live within their economic means. According
to male beneficiaries, the project contributed to income stability by helping dzud-affected herders to restock
and by providing credit that allowed them to widen the range of economic activities and income sources.
They also learned, partly through the project, to mobilise their own resources. The officials noted that
PAVGP helped to increase trading, which can provide a regular income.
10.    Household Food Security. According to male beneficiaries, PAVGP contributed to household
food security by increasing small-scale vegetable production and food processing activities, whereas women
beneficiaries reported that food security increased because women had more money to buy food. Officials
said that the project contributed to increased food production through the MoFA-sponsored "green" and"
white" revolution (home gardening, irrigation); it contributed to better diet through social development
training (financed by other donors); and it contributed indirectly to food security by increasing the
purchasing power of the poor.
11.    Ownership of Assets. Although much of the IGF lending has been for working capital, there is
consensus that the project's credit schemes significantly contributed to increased ownership of assets such
as bakery, carpentry, boot making, sewing and beverage bottling equipment among the poor. Men
emphasised that careful use of credit had increased ownership of productive assets, whereas women
emphasised how increased incomes had enabled them to purchase important consumer assets. Officials
noted that PAVGP had an even greater impact on community-owned social and economic assets such as
schools, hospitals, ambulances and roads.
12.    Livestock Ownership. Everywhere, livestock ownership was reported to have increased as a result
of higher income. Men reported that earnings from small enterprises were invested in animals. Restocking
after the dzud made a major contribution to livestock ownership of poor households. Officials stated that
livestock numbers increased both as a source of income and as a means of accumulating wealth.
13.    School Enrolment. Girls' school enrolment is increasing steadily and PAVGP contributed directly
by rehabilitating schools, refurbishing and heating school dormitories, by increasing poor parents' ability to
pay for their children's schooling (including school supplies, clothing and board for herder children staying
at the dornitories). The overall trend of boys' school enrolment, on the other hand, was declining in the
absence of the project, especially in remote areas because parents need their sons' labour for herding. It was
acknowledged that school and dormitory renovation and heating under PAVGP did a lot to arrest the decline
in boys' school enrolment. There was much more interest from rural areas in improved boarding facilities
for herder children at sum schools having grades 1-8 than in ger schools offering only grades 1-3.
14.    Health. PAVGP is acknowledged to have increased access of poor households in remote areas to
health care, especially by repairing hospitals and providing ambulances and re-equipping and re-opening the
rest homes for mothers about to give birth. Men emphasised improved health facilities and services as well
as maternal rest homes. Women greatly appreciated the supply of ambulances. Officials felt that PAVGP's
training of (volunteer) community health workers was especially beneficial to health.
15.    Problem-solving Ability. There was consensus that the capacity of the poor to solve their own
problems has increased and that PAVGP contributed. Men feel better able to solve problems because they
now have more money, whereas women feel better-able to solve their problems because of newly acquired
livelihood skills, increased access to information and access to micro-credit. Officials felt that
project-related training increased their ability to solve problems of their constituencies.
- 31 -



Without and With Project Wealth Ranking
16.    This exercise built on wealth-ranking skills acquired by Mongolians during the fieldwork for the
Bank-supported Participatory Living Standards Assessment (PLSA).
Wealth   Without   With                Reason for changes as perceived by          Did PAVGP
category  project  Project      Officials      Male beneficiaries  Female beneficiaries   cause the
change?
Very     17%       20%     Feed me mentality    Learning life                          Yes
poor                       Credit available    skills                              (according to
Increased jobs      Accumulation                        officials and
Restocking          Equipment                            men but not
Working capital                                           women)
Poor     20%       18%     Projects implemented   New income    Learning livelihood    yes
sources         skills
HHs with  53%     44%                                                                   no
means
Wealthy   10%      18%    Increased living      Unfair          Wealth gets more        no
standards           privatisation    wealth
Got wealth
17.    Very poor. Consensus from the 117 stakeholder workshops was that the proportion of very poor
in the total population has increased due to factors unrelated to the project (such as loss of employment,
loss of livestock in the dzud, poor money management, absence of self-employment skills, and a sense of
helplessness and passivity). The perception of some officials is that that this category - the poorest - have
not been able to benefit much from PAVGP. Others say that although some very poor households did
benefit from restocking, employment and credit, PAVGP coverage was not wide enough to reverse the
increase in numbers of very poor. Initially, under the VGO-credit scheme, some very poor households were
given credit but most of them spent the money on family consumption and now are unable to repay. Since
then, the poorest households have mainly benefited from temporary employment in public works. The
perception of male beneficiaries, on the other hand, is that some very poor households did benefit from
loans for equipment and livelihood skills, and that numbers of very poor would have been greater without
the project. Women agree that the share of very poor has increased but do not attribute it to the project.
18.    Poor. Findings from the 117 stakeholder workshops suggest that the share of the poor is perceived
to have slightly reduced and that PAVGP contributed to the reduction. This was the category of poor most
able to make wise use of income-generating credit. Officials attributed the reduction in share of poor to
successful projects implemented, male beneficiaries to new income sources such as trading and women
beneficiaries to learning new livelihood skills.
19.    Households with Means. The comparison of before/after wealth rankings suggest that the share of
households with means has declined as many of them joined the ranks of the wealthy. This happened as a
result of their own efforts and asset accumulation, independently of PAVGP. The overall perception is that
PAVGP was well-targeted in that it benefited the poor - not those with means. However, some households
with means were impoverished (for instance as a result of the dzud) and went to join the ranks of the poor
and very poor. A substantial number of poor households that lifted themselves out of poverty joined the
ranks of the households with means.
- 32 -



20.    Wealthy. The perception of beneficiaries and officials is that there was a substantial increase in
the proportion of wealthy households between 1994 and 2000, due to factors unrelated to the project. The
perception of officials was that these households were better-able than others to take advantage of economic
growth, whereas the perception of women is that people who are already wealthy find it easier to
accumulate additional wealth. Male beneficiaries identify today's wealthy as those people who - through
unfair use of their wealth or influence - were able to gain control of important income-earning assets when
collective goods were privatised.
SWOT Analysis by Project Component
21.    A summary of findings from SWOT analysis of project components is given below. The most
interesting information regards perceived weaknesses and threats. The term "opportunities" seems to have
been misunderstood (most points listed are "outcomes" - not future opportunities).
22.    Income-generating Credit. The main strengths of the component as identified by beneficiaries
were: higher income, expansion of productive activities and development of new enterprises; obtained some
assets in the form of equipment and working capital; favourable lending terms (low interest rate, no
collateral requirement; and acceptable repayment terms. NPAP (under the SIDA component) also helped
borrowers to learn new business skills. From officials' point of view, the main strength was the creation of
a rural credit structure. The main weaknesses according to beneficiaries were: small size of loan, low
coverage (not all households who wanted credit could get access); late fund transfer and that restocking was
not eligible for credit under VGO and IGF. According to officials, eligibility criteria were inadequate; lack
of collateral negatively affected repayment, lending to very poor households created a high risk for
repayment; and poor economic conditions affected loan repayment. They also complained about lack of
provision for loan administration costs and lack of a full-time loan officer. The main 'opportunities" were
seen to be: permanent self employment; working capital accumulation; understanding of market principles;
and possibility to work hard. Threats included: low profitability due to cost escalation (imported raw
materials) and high transportation costs (especially trips to urban areas for purchase of raw materials and
marketing of products), weak financial skills and legal knowledge of borrowers; and slow turnover of goods
and cash, due to low purchasing power of the poor and acute cash shortage due to barter trading in rural
markets (services are usually paid in kind, not cash).
23.    Public Works. The main strengths identified by beneficiaries are: improved local infrastructure;
temporary jobs created for ultra poor and poor; increased public services like water supply; garbage
collection increased land available for housing; many people covered; some permanent jobs created to
collect user fees. The main weaknesses identified by beneficiaries were "very low" wages and too short
term of employment (not permanent jobs). For local officials, the main weaknesses were lack of
professional involvement in scheme design and construction; low budget and low quality works; lack of
budget for maintenance; lack of attention to labour safety and social insurance. Positive outcomes listed
were: cleaner environment; reduced flood damage; increased drinking water supply and people motivated.
Threats identified by local officials included erosion of funds due to price escalation and lack of cost
contingency planning; weak control over implementation; poor working conditions for employees on public
works; late fund transfer; and insufficient funds to finish the entire scheme.
24.    Basic Education. The main strengths of the PAVGP basic education component were that it
concentrated benefits on remote sums; renovation of remote schools and dormitories was good for herders'
children; it reduced school drop-outs and increased the community interest to send their children to school.
- 33 -



It also created temporary jobs for poor people and improved the work environment for teachers. It also
relieved local budgets to an extent, because renovation and insulation of school heating systems cut running
costs for heating by about one third. Weaknesses cited by officials included poor quality of renovation
works because very poor were engaged as construction workers; weak control during implementation;
insufficient budget to complete entire job; and shortage of materials (which had to be bought in
Ulaanbaatar). Positive outcomes included: reduction of school dropouts; increased enrolment; increase
number of students boarding at dormitories and improvement of local education infrastructure. Threats
included prices and cost escalation; limited budget; lack of professional body to advise on standards; and
equipment purchased was low quality (due to limited budget).
25.    Rural Health. The main strengths of the component were: health care facilities improved,
ambulances supplied, decrease in maternal and infant mortality and increased ability of the bag doctors to
visit patients in remote areas. Weaknesses identified include: lack of "incentives" for project-trained
community health volunteers; failure to consider contingency costs in design and some quality issues for
renovation projects. Positive outcomes include increased access to services; better emergency services;
trained community health volunteers; renovated maternal houses used by women about to give birth;
officials and community leaders acquired new skills for project planning, implementation and monitoring.
Threats included: poor quality of works due to lack of professional advice and skilled labour for repair
jobs; price escalation for construction materials; impossibility to cover some remote areas that should have
been covered and shortage of budget for recurrent costs.
26.    Restocking. The main strengths were that the component is one of the few activities that
increased living standards of herders by assisting poor herders - especially younger ones - to overcome the
negative impact of dzud. It also contributes to employment generation. According to beneficiaries, lending
conditions were favourable because the loan repayment term is long with staggered repayment; restocked
animals are insured; quality animals were delivered. Weaknesses identified by beneficiaries were that not
all sums affected by dzud could be covered and eligibility criteria were [too] strict. According to some local
leaders, by targeting poor households who lost their animals, the component encouraged dependency on
government ("feed me" mentality) rather than discouraging it. Other weaknesses mentioned by officials
included insufficient budget for administrative costs; shortage of veterinary services and that prices paid by
the project for procured animals were higher than necessary because sellers were not paid in cash on point
of sale (payments to sellers were deferred to permit the recipients to verify the condition of the procured
animals).
(a) Survey on the Vulnerable Groups Income Generation Project, by Women's Information and Research Centre,
1998; (b) Report on the Survey and Evaluation of Newly Created Jobs within NPAP Income Generating Projects,
by Centre for Social Development Consulting Unit, 1999; (c) Primary Education in Rural Areas (Research
Report), by the Institute of Philosophy, Sociology and Rights of Mongolia, 1998; (d) Assessment Research on
Activities under PAP for Improving Rural Health Services in Mongolia, by National University of Mongolia,
Population Teaching and Research Centre, 1999.
Three of the country's 21 rural provinces had to be omitted from the survey due to the foot and mouth disease
epidemic. In each aimag, stakeholder workshops were carried out in the aimag center sum plus two rural sums;
in each UB district, stakeholder workshops were held in 30% of khoroos.
Sample size is comparable with that of the World Bank-supported Participatory Living Standards Assessment
(PLSA) and of the two LSMS surveys.
- 34 -



SWOT Analysis - Summary Table
(Synthesis of 117 Stakeholder Workshops)
Prepared by B. Enkhbat, Director - Consulting Unit, and R. Gantumur, Director - Centre for Social Development
Credit for Income Generation
Strengths:                                      Weaknesses:
*  Increased income of borrowers                *  small amount of loan
*  Productive activities expand                 *  low coverage
*  Obtained some assets in the form of equipment  *  fund transfer is late
and working capital                         *  restocking is not eligible for credit
*  Low interest rate                            *  no collateral affected repayment
*  No collateral is good for poor               *  very poor created risk for repayment
*  Repayment terms are acceptable               *  no provision for loan administration costs
*  Learned business skills                      *  no loan officer
*  Creation of rural credit structure           *  economic conditions affected loans
*  criteria were inadequate
"Opportunities"/outcomesi:                      Threats:
*  Permanent self-employment                    *  Transportation costs high
*  Working capital accumulation                 *  Costs increased
*  Understanding of market principles           *  Lack of financial skills
X  Possibility to work hard                     *  Barter trading (services paid in kind, not cash)
*  Low purchasing power at local market
*  Lack of legal knowledge
* Slow turnover of goods and cash
Public Work Component
Strengths:                                      Weaknesses:
*  Improved local infrastructure                *  Need for professionals [design, construction}
*  Temporary jobs created for ultra poor and poor   *  No labour safety or social insurance
*  Increased public services like water supply,  *  Very low wage
increased land available for housing         *  Term of employment is short
*  Many people covered                          *  Not permanent jobs
*  Some permanent jobs created on fee charges   *  Low budget leads to low quality works
*  Lack of budget for maintenance
"Opportunities"/outputs/outcomes:               Threats:
*  Clean environment                            *  Price increase
*  Flood prevention                             *  No cost contingency planning
*  Increased water supply                       *  Weak control over implementation
*  People motivated                             *  Labour conditions bad
*  Fund transfer is always late
*  Insufficient funds to finish work
Rural HIealth Component
Strengths:                                     Weaknesses:
*  Health care facilities improved              *  Community health volunteers have no incentives
*  Ambulances supplied                          *  Contingency costs were not considered in design
*  Decrease in maternal and infant mortality    *  Some quality issues for renovation projects
* Transportation for bag doctor
Opportunities (outputs/outcomes):               Threats:
*  Increased access to services                 *  Lack of professional advice & skilled labour for
*  Trained community health volunteers             repair jobs
*  Matemal houses                               *  Price increase
The term "opportunity" appears to have been misunderstood in the Mongolian translation: Responses
refer to perceived project "outcomes" as opposed to future opportunities.
- 35 -



SWOT Analysis (continued) - Synthesis of 117 Stakeholder Workshops
Basic Educaton component
Strengths:                                     Weaknesses:
*  Good for herders' children                  *  Quality of renovation was low because very
*  Temporary jobs for poor people                  poor were engaged as construction workers
*  Improved work environment for teachers      *  Weak control during implementation
*  Reduced drop-outs                           *  Insufficient budget to complete entire job
*  Budget relief                               *  Shortage of materials (bought in UB)
* Increased interest of community to send their
children to school
*  Remote sums were mostly benefited
"Opportunities" (impact):                      Threats:
*  Drop out stopped                            *  Prices and costs increased
*  Increased of students' number in dormitories  *  Limited budget
*  Tendency in increase of enrolment           *  No professional body
*  Improvement of local infrastructure         *  Equipment purchased was low quality (due to
I    limited budget)
Restocking component
Strengths:                                     Weaknesses:
*  good financial source                       *  Not all sums affected by dzud covered
*  helps overcome negative impact of dzud      *  encourages "feed me" mentality
*  loan repayment term is long                 *  criteria are [too] strict
*  staggered repayment schedule is good        *  insufficient budget for administration costs
*  good for young herders                      *  shortage of veterinary services
*  restocked animals insured                   *  no spot prices for animals were used
* quality animals delivered
* employment generation
* increased living standards of herders
- 36 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
1.    Due to unusually high turnover of project stakeholders at national level, three national stakeholder
workshops were held: (a) the first with members of an 18 person Core Learning Team comprising mission
members and representatives of the Borrower (MoFE), implementing agencies (PAPO, Consulting Unit and
relevant sectoral ministries); (b) the second with key informants who played important roles in NPAP
design and implementation between 1995 and 2000 (most of whom left their former government positions
after last year's elections); and (c) a third with members of the National Poverty Alleviation Committee
(most of whom were newly-appointed after the elections and have only limited familiarity with PAVGP).
National Stakeholder Workshop #1 - Core Learning Team
2.     The first national stakeholder workshop was an all-day (1 0-hour) brainstorming session upon the
return of the Core Learning Team from field visits in 3 aimags. Its purpose was to analyse findings from
the 3 aimags and to build consensus on ICR conclusions and lessons learnt. It was attended by 25 people
including ICR mission members, Bank staff (TTL and a team member), PAPO staff, Consulting Unit
facilitators and senior staff of the Ministry of Finance and Economy; Ministry of Social Welfare and
Labour, Ministry of Health; Ministry of Education, Culture and Science; Ministry of Food and
Agriculture; and the Ministry of Infrastructure (see attached participant list).
3.     Background. Before going to the field, Core Learning Team members agreed on a set of key issues
to clarify. These were entered into a checklist (reproduced in Annex 10: Process Documentation - Questions
by Component). Then three multi-sectoral sub-teams were formed (5-7 members each) - each of which
visited and reported on a different aimag. Issues were clarified through PAC meetings, site visits, key
informant interviews and focus group meetings with beneficiaries plus some individual interviews with poor
households unable to benefit.
4.     Workshop Procedure. Team presentations were organised by component First Orkhon would
present its findings (10 minutes - entered on a flip chart); then Domogobi; then Ovorkhangai. Then the
group would try to reach consensus on the main findings and lessons learnt. After completing all the
components, the debate centred on the project's institutional development impact and on overall lessons
learnt.
Basic Education
5.     After comparing findings from the three aimags, the component was judged to be satisfactory.
Sustainability is likely because running costs of schools and dormitories are covered by local government.
The positive impact of the project on primary school enrolment is confinned, dropout rates have been
reduced and school dormitory utilisation has greatly increased. Renovation and insulation of school and
dormitory heating systems has reduced fuel costs. There is evidence that herding families prefer to send
their children to boarding school in the sum centre rather than setting up mobile ger schools.
Rural Health
6.     The component was unanimously judged as satisfactory. Works are of good quality and very much
appreciated by the local population; ambulances are well maintained and are used for health-related
purposes. Sustainability is likely as local government is covering operation and maintenance costs.
Matemal deaths have decreased. The decrease is attributed to reduction in % of home births and to use of
- 37 -



maternal rest homes for two weeks prior to childbirth. Infant mortality has decreased except in Orkhon and
the decrease is attributed to the project. Although provision of horses for bag doctors helped them to
provide primary medical care to herders in remote areas, sustainability is doubtful, since in Ovorkhangai -
where this year's dzud was not severe - half of the bag doctors' horses still died in the dzud.
Public Works
7.     The implementation of this sub-component was rated satisfactory although there is room for
improvement. Sustainability is an issue because local govermment can only afford to pay for routine
operation and maintenance - not substantial repairs. Although in Ovorkhangai local communities
demonstrated their willingness to provide unpaid self-help labour for road repairs, reports from Orkhon are
less encouraging. Targeting was done administratively - from lists of registered unemployed people - but
on the whole was satisfactory. None of the wages were paid at below the market wage - as specified in the
SAR - so an opportunity was missed to experiment with self-targeting. Remuneration of workers was
usually based on piece rates and was well above the market wage. The benefit to the community from the
infrastructure rehabilitated was greater than the benefit from temporary employment. Procedures under
PAVGP were rated as "better" than normal government procedures because: (a) project selection was more
bottom-up; (b) availability of funds for O&M was a prerequisite and (c) works were cheaper than
comparable government schemes. But the selection of works needs improvement and the quality of works
tends to be less good than those of Government schemes due to heavy reliance on unskilled labour; high
labour content/insufficient provision for use of machinery; and insufficient use of professionals for design
and supervision.
Income-generating Credit
8.     This sub-component was rated unsatisfactory in spite of improvements. The VGO loan scheme
was (almost) unanimously recognised to be flawed and it has saddled local government with a burden of
bad loans. Although the IGF credit scheme is an improvement, repayment rates are still quite low, although
highly variable between Domogobi (the best), Ovorkhangai (among the top 5 aimags) and Orkhon (not the
worst - but about average for the programme as a whole). Whereas interest for VGO and IGF credit waned
at project closing, local governments showed a keen interest in managing the RLFs created from credit
reflows. There was unanimous recognition that credit should be handled by a full-time loan officer, suitably
trained, and that interest rates should be raised to allow for incentive payments to reward loan officers for
good loan recovery. Targeting was adequate. Emphasis rightly shifted from lending to the poorest to lending
to persons perceived as bankable poor. However, it is reported that some LGs show a preference for lending
RLF funds to the bankable non-poor.
Restocking
9.     This sub-component could only be assessed in Ovorkhangai (not imnplemented in Orkhon or
Domogobi). Its implementation has been satisfactory but as loan repayments only start in 2003, it is still
too soon to assess repayment rates, imnpact and sustainability. Beneficiary selection was assessed to have
been fair; animals of good quality; veterinary follow-up has improved and this year's dzud has underlined
the importance of insuring the animals. Animals losses to date in Ovorkhangai have been modest (3%) but
are reported to be much higher in Zavkhan aimag.
Environmental Impact
10.    School and clinic heating renovation and insulation has reduced fuel requirements, thereby
- 38 -



indirectly reducing tree cutting and environmental pollution. Public works such as garbage collection and
tree planting have been positive (although tree survival was low). Restocking seems to have been neutral
because the dzud-related animal deaths greatly reduced grazing pressure and the relatively small proportion
of households that could be restocked acquired animals that were locally procured, thereby redistributing
animals amoung households rather that adding to total numbers.
Institutional Development Impact
11.      There was unanimous agreement that institutional development within PAPO, APACs and SPACs
was satisfactory, although SPACs require further strengthening. There was also broad consensus that the
project had a positive impact on regular government planning, implementation and monitoring procedures,
especially at aimag level, and especially in Ovorkhangai and Domogobi. Aimag officials reported that the
project's bottom-up and demand-driven approach has influenced the local government planning process.
They recognise the importance of involving the sums and bags in project identification and implementation.
They learned from the project to make support for infrastructure conditional on availability of funds to
ensure proper operation and maintenance. In Ovorkhangai, in particular, community ownership of
sub-projects and willingness to contribute to their maintenance has been built. Institutional development in
the private sector was modest (although local government gained experience with using private contractors
for sub-project implementation). Although NGOs are involved in the APACs and SPACs, other civil society
institutional development has been limited. In the future, grassroots institutional development - among
restocked herders, school PTAs, water source users and credit borrowers - should receive more attention.
Core Learning Team - Cross-cutting Analysis of Findings from 3 Aimags
Component/issue                   Orkhor              Dornogobi            Ovorkhan  ai         Grou  Consensus
Basic Education                          Good                   Good                   Good                Good impact
Running cost                            LG pays                LG pays               LG pays               sustainable
Primary school enrolment                Increased        3% enrolment increase   enrolment increased    Enrolment increased due
.___________________   decreased 3-2 shifts    from 71% to 86.2%          to project
Primary school dropouts                Decreased                 -17%            dropouts decreased    Dropouts decreased due
________ _______ ___  ____ _______ _______ from     135  to  4  to  project
School dormitory                     190% increase in                            increased from 18    Large increase - benefits
boarders                                 kids to 172 kids         poor herders
Ger (mobile) schools                 Urban: no need           Not needed            Not needed          Not a high priority
Rural Health                             Good                   Good                  Good                    Good
Maternal mortality                 Decreased: 2 to I/yr     Decr. 3-2 deaths     Decr. 7 to 4 deaths    Decreased due to project
Infant mortality                    No change: 5 1/yr.    Decreased from 54 to    Decreased from 43 to   Decreased due to project
30 due to PAVGP       28.6 due to proj.       (except Orkhon)
Ambulance - non-emergency use?       No, but used for    Used for vaccination in    Used for preventive  Only for health uses
Non-health use?                    vaccination campaign      remote areas          medical advice
Ambulance condition                       Good                  Good                   Good                   Good
% of births in hospital                 Increased                                Incr. 95% to 98%           Increased
Bagfeldsher transport (horses)                                                    50% offeldsher       Horses vulnerable to
horses died in dzud          dzud
Sustainability                        Heating cost =                            LG pays running cost       Sustainable
68% decrease
Public Works                           Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Maintenance                         An issue due to LG      OK but 1 case of    Good: roads by LG +    Sustainability = likely
budget sbudget shudget shortage              self-help labour   O&M budget needs attn.
Impact on unemployment?                Temporary              Temporary             Temporary             Palliative only
Targeting                              Satisfactory           Satisfactory      Poor but not poorest       Satisfactory
Wage                             Piece rate: above market    Above market          Above market       No self-targeting wage
wage
Benefits                          The works themselves;    IncTeased workers'   Better infrastructure    Main benefits are
incr, land for housing     self-esteem                             infrastructure, not jobs
Procedures                         Unprofessional design   Better than Govt's    More participatory   Room for improvement
- 39 -



Income Generating Credit              Unsatisfactory        The best aimag       Still unsatisfactory    Improved but still
unsatisfactory
Repayment rate LDF acc. to APAC           22%                    95%                   71%              PAPO MIS = errors
Repayment rate IGF (APAC)                 25%                   95.6%                 64.7%
Repayment rate RLF (APAC)          "'7% "(understated)           94%                   70%            PAPO MIS = big errors
Futsre plans for RLF                 Keep revolving         Keep revolving         Keep revolving       Capital is shrinking
Preferred credit scheme           Sum level RLF schemes   HH loans from RLF @       RLF scheme        LGs prefers HH loans @
30/a/mo interest                           1-3%//month interest
Support for Disabled                   Satisfactory         No component           No component         Satisfactory overall
Coverage of total disabled         11% of disabled pop.
Beneficiary selection process     Fair - doctors selected                                               Good way to select
Reason fbr complaints              Not all disabled were
able to benefit
Restocking                           None in Orkhon        None in Dornogobi           Good              Good impression
Was beneficiary selection fair?                                                 Yes: fair, transparent      Yes, fair
Veterinary follow-up                                                              Big improvement     Project improved access
Next year's insurance of animals                                                 Ready to pay for it     Monitor closely
Impact of 2001 dzud                                                              3% of animals died      Monitor closely
Environmental impact
School & clinic heating             Fuel use decreased     Fuel use decreased    Fuel use decreased       Positive impact
Garbage collection, tree planting  Healthy environment    Healthy environment     Low tree survival       Positive impact
Roads and bridges                                                                No adverse impact        Neutral impact
Restocking (overgrazing)                                                         No adverse impact   Oniy 4%/. of dead animals
_________________________________                                           _________________  __     _   replaced
Institutional development
Implementing agencies                  Satisfactory        Highly satisfactory   Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory or better
Private sector                      Restricted impact         Contractors       Modest: Contractors    Needs more attention
Civil society                       Negligible irmpact          Modest            Modest: NGOs         Needs more attention
Government - national level       Limited impact outside   Poverty heads new      Project supported          Positive
PAPO            government's agenda      decentralisation
Government - aimag level           Major individual skill   Changed Govt's      Bottom-up planning,      Strongly positive
development         method of planning    O&M, monitoring
Government - sum leve              No hard evidence of     Had useful impacts    Major: Bottom-up            Positive
__ t__ -__sum___level ____      impact                                  planning, self-help
-40 -



List of Participants - National Stakeholder Workshop #1 (Core Learning Team)
6 April, 2001 - Ministry of Social Welfare and Labour meeting room
Name of Participant                                   Title
1. D. Tsedenbal                                Director, MoFE
2. D. Munkhor                                  Senior Officer, MoECS
3. Ts. Chinbat                                 Officer, MoSWL
4. D. Otgonbaatar                              Officer, MoH
5. B. Manduul                                  Officer, Mol
6. Enghtsogt                                   Officer, MoECS
7. Suvd                                        Officer, MOFA
8. B. Dodi                                     Senior Officer, Mol
9. Unenbat                                     Officer, MoFA
10. Batbileg                                   Officer, MoSWL
11. B. Enkhbat                                 Executive Director, Consulting Unit
12. R. Gantumur                                Director, Centre for Social Development
13. S. Onon                                    Director, PAPO
14. G.Pagma                                    Senior Officer, PAPO
15. P. Byambadorj                              Officer, PAPO
16. D. Gobisairkhan                            Finance Officer, PAPO
17. O. Ariuntyia                               Officer, PAPO
18. Ganbold                                    Restocking Officer, PAPO
19. A. Carloni                                 Sr. Rural Sociologist, Team Leader, FAO/CP
20. X. Liu                                     Economist, FAO/CP
21. A. Batkin                                  Financial services specialist, FAO/CP consultant
22. R. Mearns                                  Task Team Leader, World Bank
23. M. N. Benali                               World Bank, Lead Agriculturist
National Stakeholder Workshop #2 - Key Informants
12.    The purpose of the second workshop was to discuss project achievements and to solicit the reaction
of participants to ICR mission findings and to refine conclusions prior to final debriefing with the National
Poverty Alleviation Committee. The workshop was attended by persons selected because of their important
role in project implementation. They included former ministers (now retired), Members of Parliament from
both sides (ruling party and opposition); representatives of NGOs and civil society organizations; private
sector and journalists. The workshop was held at the Ulaanbaatar Hotel and lasted 1/2 day (4 hours). For
the list of participants see below.
Workshop Agenda
9:00-9:10      Opening remarks
9:10-9:25      Briefing on PAVGP                               Ms. S. Onon, PAPO Director
9:25-9:45      Evaluation team introduction                    Ms. A. Carloni, FAO/CP
9:45-10:45     Discussion session                              Participants
*  Achievement of project development objectives
*  Role of WB and borrower in project design and
implementation
*  Institutional development impact of PAVGP
10:45:11:00    Break
11:00-12:45    Discussion of lessons learnt                    Participants
12:45-13:00    Closing remarks
- 41 -



Stakeholder assessment of overall project performance and impact on poverty
1. Although Government's target of reducing poverty to 10% by 2000 does not appear to have been
achieved, there was consensus between all participants (ruling party and opposition) that PAVGP's
performance was satisfactory and its contribution to poverty reduction has been significant.
2. The project reached all of Government's officially-designated vulnerable groups and was useful to
those who benefited.
3. The project's most important accomplishment is that it changed people's mentality and behaviour.
People no longer have a "feed me" mentality or sit and wait for Government handouts. They accept
that they need to work and to take initiative. This was unanimously seen as a positive change.
4. The second most important achievement was the introduction of a bottom-up, decentralised
participatory project identification, implementation and monitoring process.
5. One of the key factors in success was the capacity and willingness of local government and PAPO to
learn from ex?rience and to solve problems together. The project was an important learning
experience for all participants.
6. There was unanimous agreement that NPAP cannot solve the entire problem of poverty.
- Poverty reduction is not just PAPO's work. If poverty reduction projects are to be successful, they
need to be supported by an enabling policy environment.
-  The 4.5% coverage of micro-credit implies that credit alone cannot get rid of poverty. However,
the project helped to ensure that household living standards did not deteriorate.
-  In assessing coverage and impact one should bear in mind that the PAVGP was small in
comparison with total Government resources for social assistance. Government spends US$10
million per year in social assistance.
7. More attention should be given to documenting and disseminating information about project
achievements. Few of the current MPs have been exposed to NPAP.
Lessons learnt - Institutional and management issues
1. When NPAP was designed, poverty reduction was new to Mongolia, hence the creation of a specific
organizational structure to deal with poverty was justified. Institutional capacity was built within
PAPO and at local PACs. However, the structure of PACs is still fragile and it is critical to ensure
that this experience and knowledge is not lost.
2. The independent structure of NPAP (PAPO/PACs) helped to maintain continuity. PAC secretaries
should not be changed every time there is an election.
3. UJNDP' s own analysis of world-wide experience with poverty alleviation programmes is that because
poverty is a cross-sectoral issue, poverty reduction should not be the responsibility of a single
ministry.
4.  Future poverty reduction programmes should be even more decentralised with fewer layers of decision
making.
5. Decentralisation of implementation calls for parallel efforts to strengthen audit and financial
monitoring at local government level. Misuse of funds must be controlled. PAPO needs to have its own
capacity to review the audits it receives. There is also a need to strengthen monitoring and audit
capacity at aimag and sum level.
6. The previous project did not consider joint matching-grant funds (with contribution of project, central
government and local government) but the possibility exists to create such a fund.
7. M&E systems need to be designed as a tool for management decision-making. The current PAPO MIS
is ill-suited for monitoring credit disbursement and recovery.
8. Now that implementation capacity has been created it is important to retain and build on that capacity.
PAPO staff need financial incentives to prevent a brain drain. PAC secretaries need incentives for loan
recovery and a transport budget.
- 42 -



9. NPAP was implemented in close collaboration with NGOs. Initially, the focus was mainly on
income-generating credit through large-scale national NGOs, many of which later withdrew because
they found it too difficult to work with the poor. Experience with local NGOs has been more positive.
Lessons learnt - Employment generation through public works
1.  Public works provided only temporary employment and cannot solve long-term employment problems.
2.  According to MoSWL, the supply of registered unemployed people far exceeds the number of jobs;
80% of the registered unemployed are unskilled whereas the job market demands skilled workers.
Hence, the principal need in the future is vocational training for youths.
3. Future programmes need to involve private sector stakeholders. According to the National Employers'
Association, employers might be willing to set up a joint fund with donors to finance vocational
training.
Lessons learnt - Income-generating credit
1. Proper selection of beneficiaries is important - Government learned that the important thing is not to
maximise the absolute number of people covered by the project but to maximise the number of people
able to use the assistance effectively. The important thing is to recover the money so that it can
continue to revolve in the sum-level revolving loan funds.
2.  The VGO credit scheme was poorly designed: interest free loans were too soft; 4 years to pay was too
long; household loans are preferable to group loans.
3 . Avoid specifjing the details of the PIM manual in the legal credit agreement because it takes too long
to change them.
4.  The target group wants to acquire market economy skills - this underlines the importance of business
training. Training of beneficiaries in business management and financial record keeping skills is
important as a complement to the credit (this was financed by SIDA but not IDA).
5.  Repayment is unacceptably low - incentives are needed for loan recovery and full time loan officers
are required.
6.  Lack of mobility of PAC secretaries was an obstacle to performance: the new programme must
provide a budget to ensure their mobility.
7.  Because of low population density and limited markets, there is a serious risk of market saturation in
some localities: when too many loan beneficiaries go into the same line of business, profits are low and
repayments are poor. The project should pay more attention to the issue of market saturation.
8.  Systematic information campaigns are needed at sum/khoroo level to improve transparency and to
ensure that all eligible poor know how to apply for project assistance. This would help to guard
against the tendency for local leaders to hold back information from the general public in favour of
their friends and relatives.
Lessons Learnt - Restocking
1. Procedures under PAVGP differed from those developed by other donors with the assistance of NGOs
(such as Save the Children/UK) since they incorporated lessons from experience; however, this was
perceived to have created unnecessary confusion for the implementing agencies.
2.  Restocking should not be done in isolation from efforts to reduce pastoral risk.
-43 -



Lessons Learnt - Health
I.  The project was very useful. The most tangible benefits were: the ambulances; the renovation of
heating systems in the sum hospitals; and renovation of the maternal rest homes.
2.  The project's contribution to health infrastructure was good but health insurance for the very poor was
overlooked.
Lessons Learnt - Education
1 . NPAP had a significant impact on children's school attendance but there is still more to be done. There
are still children who cannot attend school because they have no clothing.
2. Future poverty programmes should integrate protection of children's rights and set out to reduce the
number of street children.
Lessons Learnt - Implications for design of future programmes
I . In the future, GoM would continue to have an important role in poverty reduction but project efforts
should be integrated with the long-term economic and fiscal policy to make the results more
sustainable.
2.  Future efforts should emphasise reduction of livelihood risks and pro-poor social and economic
policies.
3. Because the mention of "vulnerable groups" in the project's title encouraged the non-poor to pose as
vulnerable to get handouts from the State, future projects should emphasise household livelihood
capacity building. A focus on household livelihoods would encourage self-reliance rather than
dependency on the Government.
4.  There is a need to enlarge the target group by paying more attention to the people close to the poverty
line who are vulnerable to impoverishment.
5.  Given the cross-sectoral nature of poverty, PAPO should continue to be an autonomous entity under
NPAC reporting directly to the Prime Minister. The autonomous structure of NPAP is important as a
means of influencing government structures from outside; if NPAP were to lose its autonomy [by
being absorbed into a line ministry], efficiency would diminish.
6.  It is important to maintain continuity within NPAC to ensure consistency in policy.
7.  Social services have improved owing to the project's contribution. Now Government must pay more
attention to productive activities, credit and financial intermediaries.
- 44 -



List of Participants - National Stakeholder Workshop #2 (Key Informants)
11 April, 2001 - Ulaan Baatar Hotel
I . Ms. T. Gandi                  Member of Parliament- Chairwoman of the Parliamentary Standing
Committee on Social Policy
2. Ms. S. Oyun                    Member of Parliament
3. Ms. N. Gerelsuren              Member of Parliament
4. Mr. R. Amarsaikhan             Member of Parliament
5. Mr. P. Byambatseren            Member of Parliament
6. Ms. Ch. Davaasuren             Deputy Chairman, Secretariat of Ikh Khural (National Assembly)
7. Mr. P. Ganbaatar               Chairman, People's Khural, Songinokhairkhan district
8. Ms. Ts. Bumkhorol              Adviser to Minister of Finance and Economy
9. Mr. D. Tsedenbal               Senior Officer, MoFE
10. Mr. B. Zorigt                 Officer, MoSWL
11. Mr. L. Lodoi                  Officer, MoH
12. Mr. S. Lambaa                 Secretary, Mongolian Democratic Party
13. Mr. Oyunchimeg                Officer, Mongolian Employers' Association
14. Ms. D. Batjinnyam             Coordinator, National Network of Women's NGOs
15. Ms. Ch. Tedenbazar            President, Erdmiin Undraa NGO
16. Mr. Ch. Ganbold               Team Leader, Development Debate, World Bank
17. Ms. B. Ariunaa                Governor, 3rd Khoroo, Bayanzurkh district, Chairwoman, PAC
18. Ms. M. Santuya                Programme Associate, UNDP
19. Ms.Uranbileg                  National Children's Committee
20. Ms. R. Oyunbileg              Programme Coordinator, SCF(UK)
21. R, Gantumur                   Director, Centre for Social Development
22. Mr. B. Enkhbat                Director, Consulting Unit
23. Ms. S. Onon                   Director, PAPO
24. Ms. G. Pagma                  Senior Officer, PAPO
25. Mr. A. Menamkat               Programme Management Advisor, PAPO
26. Mr. S. Chimid-Oidov           Local Advisor, PAPO
27. Mr. Sh. Enkhur                Head, Operations Division, PAPO
28. Mr. D. Gobisaikhan            Finance Officer, Operations Division, PAPO
29. Ms. A. Carloni                Sr. Rural Sociologist, Team Leader, FAO/CP
30. Mr. A. Batkin                 Financial Services Specialist, FAO/CP (consultant)
31. Mr. X. Liu                    Economist, FAO/CP
Stakeholder Workshop #3 - National Poverty Alleviation Council meeting
13.        The final stakeholder meeting was held on 12 April in Governnent House. It was chaired by
the Prime Minister, and was attended by high ranking officials of the Ministries of Finance and Economy;
Foreign Affairs; Justice and Internal Affairs; Infrastructure; Social Welfare and Labour; Health; Education,
Culture and Science; Food and Agriculture; Nature and Environment; National Statistical Office and NGOs
such as the Mongolian Women's Federation and the Mongolian Trade Union Confederation (see list). The
session began with a rapid summary in Mongolian of PAVGP's achievements and the mission's main
conclusions. After a lively debate, the following consensus emerged.
Achievement of the project development objective
I. The new Government challenged the old Government because it failed to produce any quantitative
evidence that it had reduced poverty as promised by NPAP. The issue raised from the floor was "How
can achievement of objectives be satisfactory when poverty (as measured by LSMSs) has not reduced?
How was achievement of objectives measured?"
- 45 -



2.  NSO clarified that estimates of poverty incidence in the early 1990s (26% of the population below the
poverty line) were based on a different method (based on income rather than consumption) are not
comparable with estimates of 36-35% poor by the LSMS. Because the second LSMS survey
introduced some slight but significant modifications from the first, it is not legitimate to attempt to
extrapolate poverty trends from comparison of the results.
3.  The mission clarified that PAVGP did not set itself a quantifiable numerical objective for reduction of
poverty by a certain date. It was the Govemment's NPAP's objective to reduce the incidence of
poverty to 10% by 2000.
4.  The final consensus, as expressed by the Prime Minister in closing the workshop was that "Overall,
the project was a good investrnent. It created capacity which helped to slow down the adverse impact
of the economic transition on vulnerable groups."
Institutional support
1.    Capacity building at the next stage should focus on sum/khoroo level.
Income generating credit
1.  There was consensus that repayment rates are unacceptably low.
2.  GoM recognises the need to strengthen the legal and institutional framework for micro-credit.
3.  In the past, GoM sought to minimise Bank support for capacity building under NPAP on the
assumption that this was better handled through grant assistance from donors such as UNDP and
bilaterals. GoM now recognises that if IDA assistance in the rmicro-finance sector is to be effective, it
should no longer limit the Bank contribution to "hardware" (the loan funds) but also consider
borrowing for "software" (such as improvement of the micro-finance policy and regulatory framework
or capacity building and business skills training for beneficiaries).
4.  It was agreed by MoFE and the Prime Minister that in the future programme, income generating credit
should be handled by specialised financial institutions', whereas training of credit beneficiaries can be
provided by NGOs. The Independent Evaluation found the record of Ulaanbaatar-based NGOs in
credit delivery to be no better (and often poorer) than that of local government.
Restocking
1.    Risk reduction and insurance for restocked animals is critical for success.
Health
1.  The project assisted in improving rural health but it did not cover UB slums or aimag centres. Since
IMR and MMR indicators are currently worse in urban slums than rural areas, the new project should
cover both.
2.  The next project should focus on STDs, AIDS and TBC.
3.  The previous health component targeted women; there is also a need to target males because
alcoholism among unemployed men is a major cause of social and behavioural problems.
Education
1. NPAP renovated over 200 schools and 100 dormitories and the main beneficiaries were poor people in
remote areas. However additional finance is needed for firther dormitories, informal vocational
training, distance education and greater attention to local government capacity to cover O&M costs.
Conclusions and implications
1. Future projects should focus on risk reduction through preventive actions - not just the existing poor
but also the future poor who are near the poverty line and vulnerable to impoverishment.
- 46 -



2. In the future, micro-credit should be handled by professional banking institutions.
3. Institutional capacity created in PAPO and local PACs should continue to be hamessed in support of
decentralised conmmunity-level initiatives.
List of Participants - Stakeholder Workshop #3 - National Poverty Alleviation Committee
12 April 2001 - 13:30 - Cabinet room - Parliament building
Name of Participant                                     Title
1. Mr. N.Enkhbayar                  Prime-Minister, NPAC Chairman
2. Mr. P.Nyamdavaa                   Minister of Health
3. Mr. A. Tsanjid                    Minister of Education, Culture and Science
4. Mr. S. Chinzorig                  Deputy Minister of Social Welfare and Labour
5. Mr. N.Tumendemberel               State Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economy
6. Mr.Ganbold                        State Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
7. Mr.G.Bayasgalan                   State Secretary, Ministry of Justice & Internal Affairs
8. Mr.S.Banzragch                    State Secretary, Ministry of Nature &Environment
9. Mr.Ts.Tsengel                     State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure
10. Mr.P.Damdindorj                 State Secretary, Ministry of Food and Agriculture
11. Mr.Ch.Davaasuren                Chairperson, NSO
12. Ms N. Ayush                     Head of Department, Ministry of Social Welfare and Labour
13. Ms.J.Erdenchimeg                President, Mongolian Women's Federation
14. Mr. G.Adiya                     President, Mongolian Trade Unions Confederation
15. Mr.N.Chuluunbat                 Vice President, Mongolian Veterans Union
16. R, Gantumur                     Director, Centre for Social Development
17. Mr. B. Enkhbat                  Director, Consulting Unit
18. Ms. S. Onon                     Director, PAPO
19. Ms. G. Pagma                     Senior Officer, PAPO
20. Mr. A. Menamnkat                 Programme Management Advisor, PAPO
21. Mr. D. Gobisaikhan               Finance Officer, Operations Division, PAPO
22. Ms. A. Carloni                   Sr. Rural Sociologist, Team Leader, FAO/CP
23. Mr. A. Batkin                    Financial Services Specialist, FAO/CP (consultant)
24. Mr. X. Liu                       Economist, FAO/CP
- 47 -



Additional Annex 10. Process Documentation: PAVGP Intensive Learning ICR Process -
Flow Chart
BENEFICIAR Y SUR VEY (117 workshops, 2,340 participants)
Trainine of APAC/DPAC secretaries in participatorv evaluation methods (UB)
r------------------- ---------------------   r-------------------- --------------------
APAC secretaries train sum PAC members          DPAK secretaries train khoroo PAC members  :
Stakeholder workshops in 2 rural sums +           Stakeholder workshops in 30% of urban  1
I aimag sum per aimag = 17 * 3 = 51              khoroos = 40 khoroo level stakeholder
sum level stakeholder workshops                              workshops
Secondary level stakeholder workshops            Secondary level stakeholder workshops
in 17 aimags                                   in 9 urban districts
Cross-cutting analysis of participatory evaluation findings
by ICR mission, PAPO staff and CU (Ulaan Baatar):
Core Learning Team
18 National level stakeholders (FAO/CP, PAPO, CU, MoFE, MoSWL,
MoH, MoECS, MoFA, Mol): team building, logistics and brainstorming
on key issues for field visits
Orkhon team                    Dornogobi team               Ovorkhaijgal team
Day I: aimag level               Day 1: aimag level             Day 1: aimag level,
Day 2: rural sum                 Day 2: rural sum               Day 2: rural sum
Day 3: aimae sum                 Day 3: aima2 sum               Day 3: aimag sum
National Stakeholder Workshop #1- Core Learning Team
Cross-cutting analysis of findings from field visits in 3 different aimags;
Consensus building across teams on ICR findings and lessons learnt from project
4
National Stakeholder Workshop #2 - Key Informants
* Debate on project with Parliamentary Social Development Adviser, MPs, retired civil servants,
opposition party, NGOs, donors, Civil Society, journalists, private sector
i
National Stakeholder Workshop #3 - National Poverty Alleviation Committee
*  Presentation of mission findings and lessons learnt
*   Debate on mission findings and lessons learnt
* Consensus building on lessons and their implications
- 48 -



BENEFICIARYSURVEY- STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOPPARTICIPANTS
SUM WORKSHOPS
* SPAC = 10% of participants
* Sectoral agencies (front line services) = 20%
*  NGOs= 10%
* Beneficiary representatives = 60% of participants, 50% female
(by component: labour-intensive works, credit/enterprise,
restocking, education, health, handicapped)
AIMAG WORKSHOPS
* APAC + 2 PAPO representatives = 5%
* Sectoral agencies = 20%
* NGOs = 5%
* Sum representatives = 30%
* Representatives of beneficiaries (male/female) = 40%
3 NATIONAL STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOPS
1. Core Learning Team
2. Outsiders: political opposition, private sector, NGOs, civil society
3. National Poverty Alleviation Committee
-49 -



STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP ACTIVITIES -SUB-DISTRICT LEVEL
1.    "Without Project/with project" Before/After Impact Comparisons: done separately by women
beneficiaries, male beneficiaries and sum officials
PRA Technique: pro ortional pilin
Item          Without project   With project   Reason for change   Did PAVGP cause
the change?
(yes/no)
Income level (Tg/mo)
Income stability
Food security
Livestock
Other assets
Schooling (girls)
Schooling (boys)
Health facity used                                                       _____            -
Capacity to solve own
problems                                                                 I
2.     Perceived Impact on Poverty - Without/with project wealth rankings
Without        With PAVGP      Reason for change  Was change due to
PAVGP                                             PAVGP? (yes/no)
Very poor  C/o of RHHs)     _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
- Poor (% of HHs)    __=             __                 ____________ _
Non-poor (% of HHs)             _                                        __   _       _
Rich (% of HHs)     _              r_       -_     -_   _           _    _
SWOT Analysis
Split sum participants into small groups: male beneficiaries, female beneficiaries, local authorities
Each prepares its own responses (and reports back at plenary)
1.     Strengths of PAVGP                     2. Weaknesses of NPAP
*      List strengths (brainstorming)         *  List weaknesses (brainstorning)
*      Public works sub-component             *    By component or activity
*      Income generating credit sub-component   *  Public works
*      Basic education component              *  Income generating credit
*      Rural health component                 *  Basic education
*      Support for the disabled (if applicable in    *  Rural health
the aimag/district)                           *   Support for the disabled
Rank (pair-wise ranking)                      *  Rank weaknesses (pair-wise ranking)
3.     Opportunities                          4. Threats
*      Make a list (brainstorming)            *  Make a list (brainstorming)
*      Rank (in order of importance)          *  Rank in order of importance
- 50 -



5.     Lessons learnt from PAVGP implementation
*      Public works
*      Income generating credit
*      Education
*      Health
*      Support for the disabled (if applicable)
Plenary session:
*     Women beneficiaries present their analysis; male beneficiaries present their analysis; local
authorities present their analysis (after the others have finished)
*     Consensus building: what feedback does the sum want to give to the aimag?
STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOPS - AIMA GIURBAN DISTRICT LEVEL
Samne procedure but split into at least 4 small groups for separate working group sessions: women
beneficiaries, men beneficiaries, sum officials, aimag officials.
- 51 -



Core Learning Team fieldwork process
CORE LEARNING PARTNERSHIP
B ank (including the ILI mission)
Borrower (MoFE)
*Irnplementing Agencies (PAPO, line ministries)
Local government (see below)
I           r~~~~---------   -------
INSIDERS               I     OUTSIDERS
Tertiar3'      *  NPAC                         *  Political opposition
Stakeholders
(Natinal)      PAPO                            group
(National)     *  Implementing agencies        *  Multilaterals
*  Sectoral ministries          *  Bilaterals
*  Other NPAP donors            *  NGOs
.                       .
INSIDERS                    OUTSIDERS
aimagl          *  APACs                       *  Other donor
duureg           *  Aimag-level PAPO               programmes
Level            *  Sectoral departments       *  Local government
SumlKhoroo             INSIDERS                     OUTSIDERS
Level           *  SPACs                       *  Local leaders
*  Sectoral departments       *  Private sector
 I                                    ,-
Bag                    INSIDERS               I    OUTSIDERS
Level            *  Bag assembly               *  Teachers
*  Local leaders              *  Health workers
. Front line services l
Household          PAVGP beneficiaries           Non-beneficiaries,
Level                 (direct benefit)          indirect beneficiaries
FOCUS GROUP MEETINGS
*      Women beneficiaries
Men beneficiaries
Local authorities, officials
- 52 -



Core Learning Team - Plan for Field Visits
Purpose
1.    For WB Team Members
*     Learn about project and local conditions
*     Check information from other sources
*     project outputs
*     implementation procedures
*     project impact
*      sustainability
*      institutional development
*     Clarify key issues
*..    Learn from other team members
2.     For Mongolian Team Members
*      Leam about PAVGP and how PAVGP relates to own sector
*      Listen to aimag's and sum's perspective
*     Listen to beneficiaries' perspective
*      Internalisation of lessons learnt (as a basis for future)
3.     Build consensus (between WB, PAPO, GOM) on lessons learnt and the way forward
Itinerary
Day 1- Sunday, 1 April - Travel to aimag
Day 2 - Monday, 2 April - Meet with aimag authorities
*      Morning: until 12:30 - courtesy call to Governor + APAC meeting (question & answer session)
X      Lunch: 12:30-14:00
*      Afternoon: individual meetings with counterparts (APAC secretary and department heads) in
aimag
*      Individuals make selected site visits within aimag centre with counterpart (if time permits)
*     Share experiences and preliminary impressions in evening
Day 3 - Tuesday, 3 April - Visit to a rural sum
*      SPAC meeting
*     Site visits
     Focus group meetings with beneficiaries
*     Back to aimag
*      Share experiences in evening
Day 4 - Wednesday, 4 April - aimag centre sum + wrap-up with APAC
*     meet SPAC
*     site visits
*     focus group meetings with beneficiaries
*     late afternoon: wrap-up with APAC - feed back findings, discuss
Evening: Orkhon and Dornogobi teams return by train back to Ulaanbaatar
Day 5 - Thursday 5 April - Ovorkhangai team drives back to UB
Day 6 - Friday, 6 April - Three groups meet for brainstorming and cross-cutting analysis
*     Discuss findings, component by component - agree on lessons leamt
*     Overall lessons learnt
- 53 -



Core Learning Team - Division of Responsibilities
TORs for Core Learning Team members
*     Learn together about the project (GOM reps are not here to evaluate the project but to learn)
*     Share expertise in own sectoral area of competence
*     Cover one's own sector plus assist with other sectors as necessary (no team has a full complement
of people for all components - some are not covered and will need to be covered by others)
*     Don't lecture or tell aimag or sum officials or community members what to do - LISTEN!
*     Be respectful and courteous to others (team members, officials and beneficiaries)
*     In focus group meetings with APAC, SPACs and beneficiaries, do not dominate the discussion
*     Work hard and contribute (don't just come along for the ride)
*     Share the burden with other team members
*     Take careful notes on what is said
*     Fill the forms
*     Participate in evening sharing sessions with other team members
Role of World Bank team members
e      Overall facilitation of core learning team exercise
each has own agenda and questions to answer - must deliver an evaluation report to WB
e      !Leam together with PAPO, GOM and local government officials
*      Help build consensus
*      Assisted by PAPO or CU staff
Role of Mongolian team leader: selected by team members
*      Organizes work of Mongolian members of Core Learning Team
*      Makes the programme of meetings and site visits (in collaboration with APAC, APAC secretary
and officials)
*      Makes sure that all sectors and questions are fully covered
*      Collects the forms filled out by team members
*      Combines them into one report for the aimag (all sectors)
*      Organizes the team reporting back in plenary on Friday 6 April
PAPO or CU with APAC secretary - in charge of organizing logistics
Logistics and allowances
*     DSA allowances for nights out
     Train to Orkhon and Domogobi - departure times (7:30 am for Orkhon; 10:00 for Domogobi) and
planned return on Wednesday evening
*     Drive to Ovorkhangai - departing 8 am Sunday 1 April and returning Thursday 6 April
Risks - foot and mouth disease - must make sure that we do not get stuck outside UB - must drop
everything and come back to UB in a hurry if necessary
- 54 -



Questions for Core Learning Team Field Visits
Questions by Component                                        Who to ask?
aimagl   Sum/    Community
duureg    khoroo
Basic Education
1.  What was the running cost of school or dormitory before the project? After? Who  X      X
will pay the running cost when the project ends?
2.  What was the primary school enrolment rate before PAVGP? After? Reason.        X         X
3.  What was the primary school dropout rate before PAVGP? After? Reason.          X         X
4.  Is school dormitory capacity fully utilised? If not, why not? Why do parents prefer to   X          X
send their children to stay with relatives when there are places available in the
dormitory?
5.  Who identified the project? Were the local people consulted?                             X          X
6.  Is there demand for ger schools? If yes, did the SPAC/APAC support it or not? If not,  X   X        X
why not? If there is no demand for ger schools, what is the reason?
Rural Health
I.  Maternal mortality rate before and after PAVGP and reason for change           X
2.  Infant mortality rate before and after PAVGP and reason for change             X
3.  Is the ambulance sometimes used for non-health purposes? If yes, explain.      X         X          X
4.  What was the % of home births before PAVGP? What is it now? Reason for change  X         X
5.  Utilisation of bag feldsher transportation (are the horses still alive?)                 X          X
Public Works
I .  Maintenance: did any of the works built by the project get broken down? If yes, what  X  X        X
ot broken? Did it get fixed? If yes, who fixed it and who paid?
2.  Are public work projects a good way to solve the unemployment problem          X         X          X
3.  What benefit did you get from the works project?                               X         X          X
4.  Are PAVGP procedures the same as for other public works? If not, what are the  X
differences? Which procedures are better and why?
Income Generation
1.  What is the repayment rate on loans from the LDF and the IGF? What is the reason  X
for high or low repayment? Does this refer to the rate at which the loan beneficiaries
pay back to the sum or the rate at which the sum repays the money to the aimag? Did
the sum retain any of the money it recovered? If so, did it lend some of the recovered
money out to other households? How is this reflected in the repayment rate?
2.  What is the repayment rate on the revolving loan fund? What will be done with these  X
funds when the project ends?
3.  Which credit scheme was better - the group loans for Vulnerable Group          X         X          X
Organizations or the household loans under the IGF and why?
Support for the Disabled (Orkhon aimag only)
1.  How many disabled are there in the aimag? How many benefited?                  X
2.  How were the beneficiaries selected? Was the selection process fair and transparent?  X  X          X
3.  Why are the non-beneficiaries disappointed?                                    X         X          X
Restocking (Ovorkhangai only)
I .  Are you satisfied that beneficiary selection was done fairly and transparently? Did the  X  X     X
loans go to the right people?
2.  Are veterinary services available? How far? At what cost?                                X          X
3.  Are you ready to insure the animals again next year? If so, who will pay?                X          X
4.  What happened to the animals during this year's dzud? What % of animals given as  X      X          X
part of restocking died? If few animals died, what was the reason? What action was
taken to make sure the animals did not die?
Environmental Impact
I .  School and clinic heating (wood and coal consumption, tree cutting, air pollution)  X   X          X
2.  Roads and bridges                                                              X         X          X
3.  Restocking (overgrazing) - Ovorkhangai only                                    X         X          X
- 55 -



Questions for Core Learning Team field visits (page 2) - Institutional Development
Aimag/    Suml   Community
Duureg   khoroo
Aimagzduureg level
1.  Planning: has PAVGP methodology for selecting and prioritising infrastructure  X       X
schemes influenced normal practice? If so, how?
2.  Sector strategy: does aimaglduureg have sector plans (esp. education, health,  X
roads)? How does PAVGP methodology fit? Comments.                     ___
3.  Capital financing: How significant has PAVGP financing been for infrastructure  X
schemes compared to government financing level? Comments.
4.  Capital sharing - How does PAVGP aimag/sum sharing compare with normal       X
practice? Comments
5.  Demand -What proportion of total school/donnitory, health facilities or public  X
works was completed by PAVGP?
6.  Recurrent financing- have special provisions been made for the incremental   X         X
recurrent financing of PAVGP infrastructure schemes?
7.  Financial flows - How does PAVGP transfer mechanism compare with normal      X
government financing? Compare strengths and weakniesses.
8.  Accountability - Differences between PAVGP reporting procedures and normal   X         X
govemment procedures? commienits
9.  Transparency - Does local government regularly publicise schemes proposed,   X         X
finance received, scheme completions, etc? Comments
10. Audit - Does the aimag have an audit programme for sums?                     X
11. Scheme design (e.g. heating, water supply) - Any differences between PAVGP and  X
normnal government procedures? comment
12. Scheme contracting - any differences between PAVGP infrastructure contracting  X
and normal government procedures? Comment
13. Scheme costs - any difference in the cost of infrastructure schemes from normal  X
government schemes? comments
14. Congruence - Overall, how close are PAVGP infrastructure selection, financing,  X
procurement, contracting, etc. procedures to normal government rules? Comment
15. Summary - what changes to normal infrastructure selection, financing,        X
procurement, contracting, etc. procedures have been made as a result of PAVGP?
16. Do APACs/DPACs or SPACS/KPACs add value? Future after project closure?       X         X
SumlKhoroo level
I.  Planning - is PAVGP methodology for selecting and prioritising schemes different  X    X           X
from normal practice? If so, how? Comments?
2.  Participation - Is there a formal procedure for canvassing infrastructure priorities  X  X         X
from the community? Comments?
3.  Social capital - Did PAVGP strengthen local community or civil society                 X           X
organization and voice? If so, give examples
4.  Budget sharing - Is there a policy on sharing between bags and sum centre?             X
5.  Scheme design and implementation - How is it done? Support from aimag?                 X
- 56 -



Additional Annex 11. Borrower records of project achievements by component, from MIS
Table 11a
Local Development Fund - IDA Credit
Disbursements by Aimags and activity areas from 1/1/96 to 3/12100
Cumulative  Totl  %d O   PublicWorks lincomeGenewafilBasicEducaflior       Rural Heali Serkves
Disbursemert Projs total Proisi Amonut Proisl Amount Projs Amount I Prois Amourr    Ambulance
Aknag          USD       #           #     USD      #  I            #  #    SD     #      USD            USD
1 Aa1dri              363,830  123   5%    29  117,558   46    82,294   16    70,637   21    44,721   11   48,620
2 BaW Ugii            452,293  233   7/o   36  112,029  112    59,633   24   116,199   47    99,718   13   59,270
3 Bayaan              328,019  121   5%    21   94,901    37    28,551   29    81,200   24    72,307   10   51,060
4 Bdgan               303,221   91   5%    34  134,833   10    12,513   19    80,583   19    28,812    9   46,480
5 GobitAfta           280,916   95   4%    16   80,681   31    47,097   18    52,927   19    44,341   11   55,870
6 G      dbster        59,268   30   1%    10   16,052    9        4,845    4    11,720    4    10,921    3   15,730
7 DarkhalwUu          175,763   35   3%    10   66,565    9    18,643    7    59,681       3     8,369    3   10,450
8 Dcmod               303,875   142   5%    36  122,262   34    31,276   13    43,135   47    40,980   11   55,120
9 DTiogoti            210,202   62   30/o   22   90,393   13    14,681    7    42,605   11    17,603    9   44,920
10 Duictzbi            226,414   77   3%    18   49,562   18    19,510   17    79,737   12    16,790   11   55,120
11 Zavitan             330,467  204   5%    31   65,909   40    38,395   46    91,958   75    78,885   12   55,320
12 Orktdn              124,388   63   2%/o    9   21,459   30    26,462    8       9,136    13    36,980    2    6,450
13 Ovddanga            416,189   194   6%    36   58,788   50    44,171   66   206,110   33    62,650    9   44,470
14 Omrogobi            196,753   82   3%    20   30,151      9    13,538   23    70,771   21    33,319    8   43,530
15 Su9taatar           273,169  100   4%    12   45,928   31    31,628   16    77,658   31    70,035   10   47,920
16 Senrige             215,768   74   3%    14   48,795   22    23,795    8    52,481    17    35,623   12   49,630
17 Tcv                 297,860   83   4%    31  126,814   17    31,021   16    61,035    5    1Z275   13   61,020
18 Uvs                 311,176  131   5%    31  111,999   50    45,527   18    64,138   19    25,248   1    58,820
19 Khenti              247,591   101   4%    35   89,545   15    14,368   16    56,706   20    15,307   14   65,970
20 KhJsgi              537,487  200   8%    49  177,657   48    53,369   48   155,981    39    69,610   16   80,870
21 Khovd               264,593  133   4%    11   35,687   36    30,078   34    77,511    42    71,207   10   50,110
22 Nalaikh              79,940   37   1%    11   60,462   25    15,028                                      1    4,450
23 Bagaw                57,129   21   1%    13   47,448    7        5,231                                   1    4,450
24 Baghagai             28,132    7   0%      7   28,132    0          0                                    0
25 Sumatva              55,684   22   1%      6   38,981    16    16,703
26 Ciretel             138,938   32   2%    20   81,619   11    15,346
27 Bayarigd             64,825   25   1%      9   49250    16    15,575                                     0
28 Bayanazkh           133,867   34   2%    17   77,828   13    15,804                                      0
29 Khan-W               92,087   29   1%    14   60,242   13    18,397                                      0
30 Sornigddiaitar      160,801    40   2%    26  140,152   13    16,949                                     1    3,700
ToWf         6,730,645 Z621 100%/e  634 2,281,682  781   790,428  453 1,561,909  522   895,701  212 1,019,350
- 57 -



Table Ila continued
I Disabled Support               Beneficiaries - LDF IGPs             Investment Avg IG $
Projs   Amount   Total HH                 VGO Members                 per caput per VGO
Aimag                USD      Population   Total    Female    FHH    Disabled    USD         Member
1 Arkhangai           0           0      69,355     1,892       432      127        13        5.25     43.50
2 Bayan-Ulgii         1        5,444    259,274     2,085       404        20         1       1.74    28.60
3 Bayankhongor        0           0    177,603      3,039       156       48        28        1.85      9.39
4 Bulgan              0            0     91,572     3,542       514       152       30        3.31      3.53
5 Gobi-Altai          0            0    200,606     2,503       251        21       29         1.40    18.82
6 Gobisumber          0           0      23,050      1,145      210        33         0       2.57      4.23
7 Darkhan-Uul         3       12,055     24,090       934     1,775        37        12       7.30     19.96
8 Dornod              1       11,102     29,207     2,320       758        52        19      10.40     13.48
9 Dornogobi           0           0      54,122      1,498      629        45         0       3.88      9.80
10 Dundgobi            1        5,695     34,398     2,307       836       170       18        6.58      8.46
11 Zavkhan             0           0    385,118      4,587       980       191         9       0.86      8.37
12 Orkhon              1       23,901     35,847       845       252       178       26        3.47     31.32
13 Ovorkhangai         0           0    159,424      2,253       699       176         1       2.61     19.61
14 Omnogobi            1        5,444     23,942     3,545       985       126        0        8.22      3.82
15 Sukhbaatar          0           0    118,167      1,541       642      281         8        2.31     20.52
16 Selenge             1        5,444     70,520     1,313       453       176       79        3.06     18.12
17 Tov                 1        5,695     16,050     2,045       775      303        31       18.56     15.17
18 Uvs                 1        5,444    140,778     3,578     1,250      294         19       2.21     12.72
19 Khentii             1        5,695     35,345     2,016       532       149        14       7.00      7.13
20 Khovsgul            0            0    138,621      5,835      657        81        18       3.88      9.15
21 Khovd               0            0    115,433      1,264      624       186         2       2.29     23.80
22 Nalaikh             0            0      2,134       547       236       143        14      37.46     27.47
23 Baganuur            0            0      4,088       419       131        50         5      13.97     12.48
24 Bagakhangai         0            0        728      1,255       41        25         1      38.64      0.00
25 Sukhbaatar          0            0      4,998      1,489      342       142        25       11.14    11.22
26 Chingeltei          1       41,973      5,930      1,036      314        86         4      23.43     14.81
27 Bayangol            0            0     16,162      1,035      379        67        23       4.01     15.05
28 Bayanzurkh          4       40,235    109,441      1,178      570       126        10        1.22    13.42
29 Khan-Uul            2       13,448     15,156      1,020      204        59         3        6.08    18.04
30 Songinokhairkhan    0            0      7,695      1.533      189        10         0      20.90     11.06
Total         19     181,575   2,368,854    59,599    16,220     3,554      442        2.84     13.26
- 58 -



Table llb
Income Generating Fund Date 1/1198-31112100
Arkhangai                 94    26,278       4%         280        875      300       162        24        6
Bayan-Ulgii              320    78,128      11%        244       2,015     1,024      325        65       21
Bayankhongor              49    21,955       3%        448       3,548      156        62        26        0
Bulgan                    51    26,998       4%         529        624      163        94        21        3
Gobi-Altai                72    31,139       5%        432         625      230       130        28       14
Gobisumber                65    14,967       2%         230        352      208       103        19        9
Darkhan-Uul              190   117,493      17%        618       2,198      608       315        76       23
Dornod                     6     4,854       1%        809         956       20         9         6        0
Domogobi                 116    34,891       5%        301         752      371       232        51       16
Dundgobi                  16     5,540       1%         346        581       51        28        18        3
Zavkhan                   38    15,696       2%         413        625       121       71        22        9
Orkhon                    14     5,764       1%        412         372       46        26        15        1
Ovorkhangai                5     2,806       0%         561        864        18       10         4        0
Omnogobi                  99    30,476       4%         308        489      318       175        35        6
Sukhbaatar                20     5,844       1%         292        965       72        42         8        3
Selenge                  117    20,374       3%         174        322      281       178        46        8
Tov                        1        93       0%          93        795        4         2         0        0
Uvs                       56    23,148       3%        413       2,965       185      105        15       16
Khentii                    3       280       0%          93        684        13        8         5        0
Khovsgul                  45    10,737       2%         239        180       90        42        28        2
Khovd                     86    23,045       3%        268         486      281       169        48       22
Nalaikh                  113    46,889       7%        415         659      360       225        63       17
Baganuur                  37     9,229       1%         249        565       124       79        19        3
Bagakhangai               35    12,716       2%         363        356      135        64         8        2
Sukhbaatar                 6     3,455       1%         576        458       24        13         3        0
Chingeltei                41    13,925       2%         340        395       142      142        14        5
Bayangol                   0         0       0%                      0        0         0         0        0
Bayanzurkh                76    29,969       4%         394        402      245       245        34       11
Khan-Uul                 208    50,480       7%         243        897      632       632        87        9
Songinokhairkhan          23    19,143       3%         832      1,375       76        76        15        6
Total         2002      686,312  100%           343   26,380      6,298    3,764      803      215
- 59 -



Table  lb continued
Arkhangai              30,032   87,593       2.9      54%        8%       2%
Bayan-Ulgii           38,773   76,297        2.0      32%       6%        2%
Bayankhongor           6,188   140,737      22.7      40%      17%        0%
Bulgan                43,266   165,632       3.8      58%      13%        2%
Gobi-Altai            49,822   135,387       2.7      57%      12%        6%
Gobisumber            42,520    71,957       1.7      50%       9%        4%
Darkhan-Uul           53,455   193,245       3.6      52%      13%        4%
Dornod                  5,077  242,700      47.8     45%       30%        0%
Dornogobi             46,398    94,046       2.0      63%      14%        4%
Dundgobi                9,535   108,627     11.4      55%      35%        6%
Zavkhan                25,114   129,719      5.2      59%       18%       7%
Orkhon                 15,495   125,304      8.1      57%      33%        2%
Ovorkhangai             3,248   155,889     48.0      56%      22%        0%
Omnogobi               62,323    95,836      1.5      55%      11%        2%
Sukhbaatar              6,056    81,167     13.4      58%       11%       4%
Selenge                63,273    72,505      1.1      63%       16%       3%
Tov                      117   23,250      198.8      50%        0%       0%
Uvs                     7,807   125,124     16.0      57%       8%        9%
Khentii                  409    21,538      52.6      62%      38%        0%
Khovsgul              59,650   119,300       2.0     47%       31%        2%
Khovd                  47,418    82,011      1.7      60%       17%       8%
Nalaikh                71,152   130,247      1.8      63%       18%       5%
Baganuur               16,335   74,427       4.6      64%       15%       2%
Bagakhangai            35,719    94,193      2.6      47%       6%        1%
Sukhbaatar              7,544   143,958     19.1      54%       13%       0%
Chingeltei             35,253    98,063      2.8    100%        10%       4%
Bayangol                             0       0.0       0%        0%       0%
Bayanzurkh             74,550   122,322      1.6    100%        14%       4%
Khan-Uul              56,276    79,873       1.4    100%        14%       1%
Songinokhairkhan       13,922  251,882      18.1    100%      20%        8%
Total         26,016   108,973    4.2       60%       13%       3%
- 60 -



Table 11c
VGO Borrowers from LDF
Aimag        Schemes   US$        Benef    Total   Female    FHH    Disabled
Arkhangai                46    82,294     1,232      277       106        28         4
Bayan-Ulgii             112   59,633         13      742       293        18         1
Bayankhongor             37   28,551      1,070      314       170        40         2
Bulgan                   10    12,513        65       65        33        12
Gobi-Altai               31    47,097     1,189      403       213        52
Gobisumber                9    4,845         77       28        18         7
Darkhan-Uul               9    18,643        78       74         7         2
Domod                    34    31,276        26      343       196        43         2
Domogobi                 13   14,681         16       73        39         6
Dundgobi                 18   19,510          0      152        95        28
Zavkhan                  40    38,395     1,205      224       104        38         9
Orkhon                   30   26,462         21      170       100        29
Ovorkhangai              50   44,171         10      324       166        16
Omnogobi                  9    13,538         0       73        32         7
Sukhbaatar               31    31,628                238       138        43         1
Selenge                  22   23,795                 124        73        30
Tov                      17   31,021        230      190        73        34
Uvs                      50   45,527      1,449      397       191        37         3
Khentii                  15   14,368        383       81        54        28         2
Khovsgul                 48    53,369       916      646       310        72        15
Khovd                    36   30,078        722      264       131        27         2
Nalaikh                  25    15,028       351      173       109        42        14
Baganuur                  7    5,231        111       37        21         9         5
Bagakhangai               0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Sukhbaatar               16   16,703          0      101        22         6         0
Chingeltei               11   15,346        158       73        37        13         1
Bayangol                 16   15,575        286      114        35        12        19
Bayanzurkh               13   15,804        509      170        76        35        23
Khan-Uul                 13   18,397        813      199        88         5         4
Songinokhairkhan         13   16,949          0      153        19         0         0
Total            781   790,428    10,930     6,222     2,949      719       107
- 61 -



Table IId
Income Generating Credit
No.of Schemes            % of Total      Expenditure    Expenditure      MTN
Schemes         (MNT m.)         Share
Sewing                            1,317           19%         530.271        18%
Bakery                             553             8%         226.115         8%
Vegetable growing                  867            12%         332.103         11%
Boot making and repair             609             9%         247.125         9%
Trade                             1206            17%         376.842        13%
Services                           251             4%         117.730         4%
Other                             2302            32%        1070.135        37%
______________  7,105       100%        2900.322        100%
- 62 -



Table 1le
Basic infonmation on PAPO-Implemented Restocking Project - IDA Credit
Ulaanbaatar                                                                        As of 25.12.2000 
_____No.of animals distributed I thousandsl
Almag       Soum                  Notal   -m    -istrse   thousand            Households   Beneficiaries  Costs In mln.Tg
Total    Camel Horse   Cow    Sheep        Goat______ ______
1          DelgertsGgt           1,121             3      5       694       419           35            157             21.4
2          Deren                   704             7      19      454        224          20            100             12.8
3          Gurvansaikhan         2,321      1     46       7     1,378       889          50            225             42.8
4      i   Ulziit                1,709                            884        825           33           148             34.2
5     ,    Kuld                  2,023             6               884     1,133           79           355             36.4
6     -   Luus                   1,331            10       1      787        533          32            144             25.6
7          Delgerkhangai         2,602            12             1,414     1,176          49            225             49.2
8          Saikhan-Ovoo          2,372             6             1,267     1,099          55            247             42.8
9          Erdenedalai           5,287            84      56     3,280     1,867          99            445            102.7
10         Saintsagaan            3,741    =       19     13     2,395      1,314          85           382              70.5
Sub- total  _                   23,211     1    193    101    13,437       9,479         537          2,428            438.5
11         Bayan-Undur                  -2,69      36     25     2,283       295           50           225              47.5
12         Burd                   1,818                 _         1,760       58           60           270              46.5
13   3<  Bayangol                3,054      1   =          3     2,382       668           57           256              49.7
14    a   Esonzuil               2,631  _          35     10     2,451       135           35           157              34.5
15    f    Sant                  2,595             17            1,918       660           62           279              53.2
16         Togrog                 1,737             6              946       785           29           130              27.2
17         Zuunbayanulaan         1,160             3     21      1,029      107           32           144              21.7
18         Kharkhorn             2,911   _       _               2,420       491           52           234              51.2
Sub- total                      18,545     1      97     59    15,189      3,199         377          1,695            331.5
19         Gurvanbulag            3,312                          2,952       360           48           216              35.1
20  A     Jargalant               1,195                           1,195                    12            54              12.1
21  a,        Bayanbulag          2,569                           2,368      201           54           243              27.2
22  mr     Zag                   3,772                           3,421      351           58           261              39.9
Sub- total                      10,848                           9,936      912          172            774            114.3
23        Aldarkhaan             2,669       1    13     16      1,211     1,429          34           153               31
24        Santmargats           3,668 _            6.           2,410      1,252          70           315              42.2
25   e   Songino                2,777              2      1     2,634       140           34           153              32.7
26   c   Uliastai                2,229            17     24      1,810      378           57           256              31.6
27        Shiluustei             1,563             1      3      1,539       20           26           117              117
28        Tsetsen-Uul           3,569   _              _        2,688       881           41           193              40.8
29        Erdenekhairkhan        6,246            11     15     4,877      1,343          67           301               68
30        Yaruu                  4,402            24     30      3,903      445           50           225              49.8
Sub- total                      27,123            74     89    21,072      5,888         379          1,713            313.8
31        Ulgii                 2,950        1                   1,727     1,223          36           162               36
32        Undurkhangai           3,412                          2,594       818           62           279              41.1
33  Uvs  Zuunkhangai             3,007            26     15     2,772       194           61           274              40.7
34        Umnugobi               2,747            16      9      1,735      987           41           220              35.9
35        Naranbulag             3,628                          2,486      1,142          63           284              43.7
Sub- total                      15,744            42     24    11,314      4,364         263          1,219            197.4
Total                         95,471     2    406    273    70,948    23,842          1,728         7,829           1395.5
- 63 -



Table ilf
PAVGP Restocking Component
Average Restocking Loan Per Household
Almag       Soum                      Average Rtocng oan per HH (No. of H   d L         .        CostlHH     Co0tbod
_                   ~~~~~~~~~Animals  Camne  Hors   Cow    Sheep  Goat      Sod eiqulv        (tg)       iS (tg)
1           Delgertsogt              32      0       0      0        20         12             4.77     611,429      128,144
2           Deren                     35     0       0       1       23         11             6.14     640,000      104,186
3           Gurvansaikhan             46     0       1      0        28         18             7.56     856,000      113,196
4           Ulziit                   52      0       0      0        27         25             7.40    1,036,364     140,082
5     i    Kuld                      26      0       0      0        11         14             3.72     460,759      123,750
6      e    Luus                     42      0       0      0        25         17             6.24     800,000      128,275
7     0    Delgerkhangai              53     0       0      0        29         24             7.80    1,004,082     128,796
8           Saikhan-Ovoo              43     0       0      0        23         20             6.25      778,182     124,419
9           Erdenedalai               53     0       1       1       33         19             8.84    1,037,374     117,333
10          Saintsagaan               44     0       0       0        28        15             6.61      830,588     125,655
Sub- total     Dundgobl              43     0       0       0        25        18              6.65     816,574     122,865
11          Bayan-Undur               53     0       1       1        46         6             8.59      950.000     110,649
12          Burd                      30     0       0       0        29         1             4.33      775,000     179,043
13     5    Bayangol                  54     0       0       0        42        12             7.72      871,930     112,964
14          Esonzuil                  75     0       1       0        70         4            11.84      985,714      83,247
15          Sant                      42     0       0       0        31        11             6.21      858,065     138,079
16     >   Toyog                      60     0       0       0        33        27             8.73      937,931     107,389
17          Zuunbayanulaan            36     0       O       1        32         3             5.82      678,125     116,488
18     _    Kharkhonn                 56     0       0       0        47         9             8.00      984,615     123,119
SubF total    Ovokhangal             49     0       O       0        40         a              7.38     879,310      119,069
19          Gurvanbulag               69      0      0       0        62         8             9.86      731,250      74,185
20  :.      Jargalant                100      0      0       0       100         0             14.23    1,008,333     70,879
21  l,   W Bayanbulag                 48      0      0       0        44         4             6.80      503,704      74,115
22  -i   Zag                          65     t       0       0        59         6              9.29     687,931      74,046
Sub-total  Bay nkhongo               63     0       0       0        58         5              9.01     664,535      73,756
23        Aldarkhaan                79      0       0      0        36         42            11.95     911,765       76,328
24         Santmargals              52      0       0      0        34         18             7.56     602,857       79,752
25    c    Songino                   82     0       0      0        77          4            11.74      961,765      81,896
26   ,    Uliastai                   39     0       0      0        32          7             6.20     554,386       89,374
27         Shikuustei                60     0       0      0        59          1             8.72     680,769       78,072
28        Tsetsen-Uul                87     0       0      0        66         21            12.44     995,122       80,022
29         Erdenekhairkhan           93     0       0      0        731        20            13.65    1,014,925      74,352
30         Yaruu                     88     0       0      1        78          9            13.50     996,000       73,762
Sub- total      Zavkhan              72     o       o       0        56        16             10.59     827,988      76,168
31         Ulgii                     82     0       0      0        48         34            11.71    1,000,000      85,424
32         Undurkhangai              55     0       0      0        42         13             7.86      662,903      84,320
33   UVs  Zuunkhangai               49      0       0      0        45          3             7.62     667,213       87,581
34         Umnugobi                  67     0       0      0        42         24            10.09      875,610      86,745
35         Naranbulag                98     0       0      0        39         18             8.23      693,651      64,317
Sub -totabl        vs                60     0       0       0        43        17             8&77      750,57       65,613
Total                            55.2   0.0o    02      0.2        41        14             &23       807,581      96,116
- 64 -



Table 1 19
PAVOP Retocidng - Covrage ofTotal 199612008 Dzud Affected Households (5 project almegs)
1999-2000 Dzud
=___________              Total          Uvestock        % Replaced        HHs lost       HHs       Avg toss        PAVOP           PAVGP
Almag          Soum              Uvestoctk        Distributed       through        loeing all    affected     per HH       beneficaris its%
Losss 99.00       by PAVGP           PAVOP          animnws         _        (animals)                      of affected
De  rtsot                      23,204            1,121               5%             29         388           60              35             9%
2             Dmen                           31,766              704               2%             14         439           72               20            5%
3             GurvareAhan                    44,693            2,321               5%             46         540           83               SO            9%
4       _     Utzit                          42,547            1,709               4%              5         627           88               33            5%
S       8    Kuld                            48,415            2,023               4%              5         510           95               79           15%
6       c     Luus                           36,351            1,331               4%             22         389           93               32            8%
7             Da       atng.1                44.587            2,602               6%             22         534           83               49            9%
8             Sailkan-Ovoo                   42,375            2,372               6%              5         540           78               55           1D%
9             Erdenmdalai                   110,560            5,287               5%             29        1507           73               99            7%
10            Salntsagaan                     86,286            3,741               4%            56         909            95              85             9%
sub- towl         Ducvobl                  58f,000           23,21f               4%           160        6,074           72              537            7A
11            Bayan-Undur                      52789           2,639               5%             39        1048            50              50             5%
12            Burd                            48,998            1,818               4%            88         984            50              60             6%
13      w     Bayngo                          53,298            3,054               6%            37        1.021           52              57             6%
14      c    Ecrrzu8                          35,937            2,631               7%            14         989            36              35             4%
15      f     Sant                            56.090            2.595               5%                      1,010           56              62             6%
18 l          Togrog                          30,511            1,737               6%            19         681            45              29             4%
17            Zuurbayanulaan                  22,907            1,160               5%             15        824            28              32             4%
18            Kharkdhorin                     57.191            2,911               5%                      1,431           40              52             4%
Sub- total       Ovokhang                  434[oo            18,545               4%           256        6,555           66              377            6%
| 19          Gurvanbulag                     29,069            3,312              11%           127         652            45              48             7%
|20   Byaynho Jargelarbt                      36,911            1,195               3%            120         512           72               12            2%
21     ngor  Baynobulg                        16,586            2,569              15%             30        480            36              54            12%
1 22   _____   Zag                            25,535            3,772              15%             58         819           31              58             7%
Sub- total    aye^nkhongo                  128,200           1084|                86%          276        2,443           52              172            7%
23          Aldarkthaa                      26,070            2,669              10%             30        105           24              34             3%
24          Sae nargats                     32,048            3,668              11%             S0        590            54              70            12%
25     o    Songkno                         23,420            2,777              12%             12        547            43              34             6%
28          Uel"al                           17,52            2,229              13%             18         884           20              57             6%
27          Shiluusnt                        13,630           1,563              11%              2         636           21              26             4%
28          Tsatsn-Uul                      20.610            3,569              17%             21         633           33              41             6%
29          Erdrne4wairkhan                 38,345            6,246              16%             36        932            41              67             7%
Yaruu                           36,946           4,402              12%             48         925           40               50            5%
Sub- total         zavkan                  321,400           27,123               8%           298       17,400           18              379            2%
31          Ulgii                           23,217            2,950              13%            40         545            43              36             7%
32          Undurkdhani                     25,594            3,412              13%              0        585            44              62            11%
33   Uva   Zuuridhangai                    248,450            3.007               1%             13        690           360              61             9%
34          Umnugobi                        21,419            2,747              13%              0         570           38              41             7%
35          Naranbula9                      28,444            3,628              13%5 24                    50            51              63            11%
Sub- totaf            V                    214,200           15,744               7%           180        9,319           23              263 3
Total                                  1,679,200           95A471               6%1         1,138     43,791            38            1,728           4L
-65 -



Table 11 h
Ovorkhangai Aimag - Livestock Losses in 2001 Dzud among PAVGP Restocking Beneficiaries
PAVGP Restocking Area                Livestock Losses by Species in 2001 Dzud
Aimag        Sum                 Among P VGP Rest ocking Beneficiaries
Aimag             Total   Horses   Cattle    Sheep    Goats  Bod Equiv
I 1             Bayan-Undur          82        0         2       78         2        15
2               Burd                 51         0        0        50        1         8
3        c      Bayangol              9         0        0         9        0         2
4        s      Esonzuil             49         3        2        42        2        12
5               Sant                  0         0        0         0        0         0
6        >      Togrog                5         0        0         3        2         1
7        0      Zuunbayanulaan       35         0       27         5        3        28
8               Kharkhorin          337        0         0      302        35        55
Sub- total        Ovorkhangai           568        3        31      489        45      121
PAVGP Resto king Area                    % Losses by Species in 2001 Dzud
Aimag        Sum                     PAVGP Restocking Beneficiaries
Total   Horses   Cattle    Sheep    Goats  Bod Equiv
1               Bayan-Undur         3%        0%       8%        3%        1%       3%
2        .      Burd                3%                           3%       2%        3%
3        c      Bayangol            0%                 0%        0%        0%       0%
4        '~Esonzuil                 2%        9%      20%        2%        1%       3%
5        w      Sant                0%        0%                 0%       0%        0%
0
6        >      Togrog              0%        0%                 0%        0%       0%
7        0      Zuunbayanulaan      3%        0%     129%        0%        3%      14%
8     _____     Kharkhorin          12%1 _____    ____          12%1       7%1     12%1
Sub- total         Ovorkhan_gai         3%        3%      53%        3%        1%       4%
Table 11 i
Public Works
No.of PW   Share of Total Expenditure  % of total
Schemes   PW Schemes  Million Mtg  Expenditure
Road Repair                                 91         14.40%        349.6       16.90%
Drinking water supply                       85         13.40%        289.9       14.00%
Building renovation                         92         14.50%        258.6       12.50%
Bridge Construction & Repair                61          9.60%        240.2       11.60%
Dam construction & repair                   46          7.30%         192.6       9.30%
Garbage clearing                            59          9.30%         190.3       9.20%
Environment & Forestry                      52          8.20%         179.8       8.70%
Public showers & bath-houses                62          9.80%          120        5.80%
Public heating system repairs               25          3.90%          98.4       4.70%
Others                                      13          2.10%          59.5       2.90%
Ground preparation                          20          3.20%          56.4       2.70%
Fuel Collection                             25          3.90%          34.5       1.70%
Natural Resources                            3          0.50%           4.8       0.20%
All Public Works                           634        100.00%      2,074.60     100.00%
- 66 -



Table lj
RURAL HEALTH
No.of   Share of total  Expenditure    % of Total
Schemes  PW schemes   Million Mtg   Expenditure
Hospital transport and equipment    89            17%        995.63           57%
Heating system/renovation          183            35%        564.28            33%
Maternity Homes                    187            36%        111.05             6%
Health volunteer training            43            8%         32.91            2%
Health training                       2            0%          2.36             0%
Ambulancce services                   4            1%          4.48             0%
Others                                8            2%         23.131            1%
Total                                516           100%      1,733.85          100%
Table IIk
BASIC EDUCATION
No. of  Share of total Expenditure  % of Total
| Schemes   Schemes   million Mtg  Expenditure
Heating system/renovation                 257          56%       1,018.53        67%
Strengthening sum school subsidiaries      13           3%          18.93         1%
Open Bag school                             5           1%           8.22         1%
Sum school/dorm. Eletrictricy supply       17           4%         34.01         2%
Dormitory renovation/heating              120         26%         372.42        24%
Moving teachers                             1           0%          1.09         0%
Open Pre-school Class                       1           0%          2.25         0%
Training for Shool Dropouts                24           5%         30.31         2%
Training for disabled children              2           0%          0.70          0%
Bag school renovation and heating           6           1%         17.01          1%
Ger school                                 12           3%         12.93          1%
Others                                      4           1%         14.99          1%
Total                                       462         100%       1,531.39       100%
-67 -



Table IIl
LDF IG PROJECT REPAYMENT STATUS
#     AIMAG            I cycle due   11 cycle due  IlIl cycle due  IV cycle due V cycle due   Total due    Total amount   Total
repaid    repayment
rate/'/
100% by     100% by      50% by      50% by   100% by    03.01.2000
03.01.2000    2000.VII.1   02.10.2000   2000.V.1  1998.XI1.1
i Arkhangai          6,750,000    12,340,000   15,605,000                       34,695,000    15,691,200    45%
2 Bayan-Ulgii         5,302,990    12,500,000    9,150,000                      26,952,990    7,954,998     30%
3 Bayankhongor   6,695,000    4,000,000    1,500,000   1,182,000                13,377,000    8,291,800     62%
4 Bulgan              3,860,000                1,650,400                         5,510,400    2,666,160     48%
s Gobi-Altai         8,523,000    4,352,000    4,672,700   1,999,250            19,546,950    7,989,100     41%
6 Gobisumber          2,340,000                                                  2,340,000    1,569,000     67%
7 Darkhan-Uul         4,700,000    2,000,000    1,875,400                        8,575,400    3,324,000     39%
a Domod              4,700,000    4,230,000    4,700,000                        13,630,000    6,482,000     48%
9 Domogobi            4,338,810    600,000     1,150,000    560,650              6,649,460    7,531,810    113%
10 Dundgobi           4,300,000    4,600,000                750,000               9,650,000    6,750,000     70%
ii Zavkhan            7,531,600    4,710,000    4,900,000                        17,141,600    6,120,990     36%
12 Orkhon             4,000,000    1,300,000    5,485,000                        10,785,000    2,266,200     21%
13 Ovorkhangai        7,700,000    2,284,960    8,730,000                        18,714,960    18,587,100    99%
14 Omnogobi           3,380,000    2,741,000     500,000                          6,621,000    5,103,000     77%
15 Sukhbaatar         4,204,000    5,895,000    4,089,150                        14,188,150    8,887,100     63%
16 Selenge             3,800,000    5,000,000    2,250,000                       11,050,000    3,710,000     34%
17 Tov                4,753,680    3,815,280    5,102,688                        13,671,648    9,650,698     71%
18 Uvs                4,710,000    10,140,000    6,075,000                       20,925,000    8,848,650     42%
19 Khentii            3,720,000     810,000     1,700,000    225,000              6,455,000    7,590,000    118%
20 Khuvsgul           9,080,000    9,900,000    5,800,000                        24,780,000    5,672,700     23%
21 Khovd              5,000,000    7,000,000    2,500,000                        14,500,000    2,230,000     15%
AIMAG TOTAL:            109,389,080   98,218,240   87,435,338   4,716,900          299,759,558   146,916,506    49%
UB  Nalaikh              4,000,000    1,700,000    1,300,000                        7,000,000     3,511,000    50%
UB  Baganuur                          1,500,000    960,000                          2,460,000     1,692,800    69%
UB  Bagakhangai
US  Sukhbaatar           2,945,096    2,561,000    2,231,200                        7,737,296    3,046,470     39%
UB  Chingeltei           3,812,884    2,395,732    1,093,155                        7,301,771     3,974,122    54%
US  Bayangol             4,000,000    2,500,000    1,075,000                        7,575,000    2,868,000     38%
UB  Bayanzurkh           3,749,400    2,178,700    1,516,056                        7,444,156     4,166,500    56%
UB  Khan-Uul             4,496,400    2,375,100    1,692,750                        8,564,250     2,333,300    27%
UB  Songinokhairhan      2,505,008    3,500,000    2,005,175                        8,010,183     2,930,120    37%
22 Ulaanbaatar        25,508,788   18,710,532   11,873,336                       56,092,656    24,522,312    44%
GRAND TOTAL:       134,897,868   116,928,772   99,308,674   4,716,900         355,852,214   171,438,818    48%
- 68 -



Table llm
IGF PROJECT REPAYMENT STATUS
Income Generation Fund
AIMAG         Disbursed by        Due 12/31/00              Repaid  Repayment
213100n                                    12131100    rate %
i Arkhangai          59,800,000          44,450,000                5,780,700     13%
2 Bayan-Ulgii        123,000,000         39,000,000                2,842,600      7%
3 Bayankhongor  59,200,000               39,000,000               18,900,000     48%
4 Bulgan              55,611,018         30,000,000                5,310.000     18%
5 Gobi-Altai          57,154,000         30,154,000               21,604,000     72%
6 Gobisumber          24,941,300          8,851,300               12,139,833    137%
7 Darkhan-Uul    152,594,000             26,994,000               17,580,000     65%
8 Dornod              96,000,000         69,000,000               18,919,500     27%
9 Dornogobi          48,130,000          31,980,000               31,538,987     99%
10 Dundgobi           40,050,000          30,000,000               19,743,001     66%
ii Zavkhan            48,900,000          30,900,000               13,334,950     43%
12 Orkhon             21,020,000          21,020,000                5,190,500     25%
13 Ovorkhangai    63,000,000              27,000,000                9,623.200     36%
14 Omnogobi           41,300.000          27,200,000               25.000,000     92%
15 Sukhbaatar         48,300,000          48,300,000               16,518,468     34%
16 Selenge             30,000,000         27,000,000                2,700,000     10%
17 Tov                 32,250,000         32,250,000               20,274,559     63%
18 Uvs                 69,000,000         45,000,000                5,671,500     13%
19 Khentii            27,000,000          12,000,000                9,542,000     80%
20 Khuvsgul            55,816.000         55,816,000               20,200,000     36%
21 Khovd               51,000.000         27,000,000               12,231,400     45%
Total of almags:     1,204,066,318        702,915,300              294,645,198    42%
UB   Nalaikh              64,000,000         23,000,000                3,838,262      17%
UB   Baganuur             26,250,000         16,200,000                15,594,150    96%
US   Bagakhangai          19,600.000          7,600,000                6,792,800      89%
UB   SukhbaatarD          37.000,000         34,000,000                9,161,500      27%
UB   ChingeKtei           32,898,557         17,998,557                13,999,818     78%
UB   Bayangol             64,900,000         18,000,000                9,470,000     53%
UB   Bayanzurkh           50,400,000         29,900,000                31,552,150    106%
UB   Khan-Uul             75,050,000         20,885,000                3,853,000      18%
UB   Songinokhairkhan    134,900,000         50,900,000                16,956,000    33%
22 Total US:            504,998,557        218,483,557              111,217,680     51%
TOTAL:  1,1UY,Ub4,1S        VZ1,JYU,5i0        4U05,11b2,8I8      44Ye
- 69 -



Table 11 n
Revolving Funds
Amount  Disbursed  Disburs.   Amount   Repaym    Projects
in RLF   from RLF    Rate        Repaid      Rate
Aimag                   Tg  '000        Tg '000  %       Tg '000       e
Arkhangai                 26182        6000       23%           0         0%          21
Bayan-Ulgii                13298       5400       41%           0         0%          29
Bayankhongor               34876       5700        16%       3513        62%          13
Bulgan                     13381          0        0%           0         0%           0
Gobi-Altai                 30625       3000       10%        2022        67%           6
Gobisunber                 15089       6750       45%          34         1%          20
Darkhan-Uul                41855       9680       23%         444         5%          10
Domod                      47175      13049       28%        1000         8%          63
Dornogobi                  57732      69522      120%       16123        23%         259
Dundgobi                   30035       3000        10%          0         0%           7
Zavkhan                    29811      10900       37%        1498        14%          18
Orkhon                     18092       1000        6%          70         7%           1
Ovorkhangai               38850       34850       90%       17827        51%         152
Omnogobi                  46288       27734       60%        7158        26%         105
Sukhbaatar                29685        3000       10%         795        27%           9
Selenge                     7570       9400      124%        1506        16%          71
Tov                        39491       9000       23%           0         0%          90
Uvs                        18205       6700       37%           0         0%          11
Khentii                    23257       7100       31%           0         0%          18
Khovsgul                   24989          0        0%           0         0%           0
Khovd                      20664       1750         8%        450        26%           5
Nalaikh                     8929       1300        15%          0         0%           3
Baganuur                   19396      18675       96%       13762        74%          79
Bagakhangai                 7568       1400        18%          0         0%           5
Sukhbaatar                21369       13300       62%           0         0%          14
Chingeltei                 27012      22000       81%           0         0%          30
Bayangol                   22643       3900        17%        200         5%           5
Bayanzurkh                 44015      21900       50%         606         3%          83
Khan-Uul                   11336      12500      110%         300         2%          32
Songinokhairkhan          34728        4500       13%           0         0%           6
Total            804146    333010  12.034104        67308       20%        1165
Reported totals                                                                     1370
IDA share                                                                            685
59%
50%
- 70 -



Revolving Funds cont'd
RLF beneficiaries
total pop      Total       Female        FHH         Disabled
Aimag
Arkhangai                     254           56           27            0             0
Bayan-Ulgii                   180          113           28            8             0
Bayankhongor                   26           13           13             1            0
Bulgan                          0            0            0            0             0
Gobi-Altai                     30           30            7            0             0
Gobisumber                    112           42           21            6             2
Darkhan-Uul                    65           41            9            6             2
Domod                         273          162          121           22             3
Dornogobi                    1992          746          340           67            18
Dundgobi                       72           59           26            3             2
Zavkhan                       309          100           59            15            1
Orkhon                          5           10            4             1            0
Ovorkhangai                  1357          540          328           46             0
Omnogobi                      480          244          139           52             9
Sukhbaatar                    109           29           16            2             0
Selenge                       386           94           76           28             0
Tov                           425          185          116            12            5
Uvs                           220           53           47             8            0
Khentii                        66           66           26            3             0
Khovsgul                        0            0            0            0             0
Khovd                          26           18           13            3             0
Nalaikh                        30            15           8             1            3
Baganuur                      549          218          140            16            6
Bagakhangai                    30           14            7             1            0
Sukhbaatar                    242          116           58           21             0
Chingeltei                    346          148          103            19            3
Bayangol                      133           42           35            10            4
Bayanzurkh                    826          336          244           56            13
Khan-Uul                      376          127           65             8            2
Songinokhairkhan              123           33           33            3             1
Total                 9042         3650        2109           418            74
Reported totals             12567         5069         2768          418            74
IDA share                                 2535         1385
69%         66%
50%         50%
-71 -



Additional Annex 12. Selected Social Indicators for Mongolia
1990    1991      1992       1993       1994      1995
1. Population (source NSO)                              2,187,251  2,214,946  2,250,000  2,280,000  2,317,500
Population growth rate (% per annum)                      1.8%      1.3%       1.6%       1.3%       1.6%
2. Health (source MoH)
Maternal deaths                                    89       93       129        124        116       101
Number of woman giving birth                   72,790   69,776    63,037    47,726      52,723    54,052
Number of live births                                                                              54,293
Maternal mortality rate/lOOO women giving birth  12.2     13.3       20.5      26.0       21.2       18.8
MMR per 1000 live births                                                                             18.6
Infantmortality rate (per 1000 live births)      62.6     59.5       61.2      48.0      46.79     44.57
Number of infectious disease cases                                25,228     26,843     42,694    32,713
Change in MMR (%)                                          9%       54%        27%       -18%       -11%
Change in lIMR (%)                                        -5%        3%       -22%        -3%        -5%
Change in No. of infectious diseases (%)                                        6%        59%       -23%
3. Basic Education (source MoECS)
Number of schools                                                    681        663        659       664
Primary school enrolment MoECS                   98.6      n.a.      82.2       n.a.      84.6       88.0
Female primary school enrolment rate           n.a.      n.a.      83.3       n.a.      85.4       88.7
Male primary school enrolment rate             n.a.      n.a.     81.1        n.a.      83.8       87.2
Gender balance (girls as % of boys)                              103%                  102%      102%
Pupils reaching grade5 (% ofcohort)              90.6      85.2      86.1       84.1      76.1       72.2
Literacy rate                                    69.8      70.8      71.9       73.0       74.0      75.0
Female literacy rate                          78.5     79.2       79.9       80.6      81.3       81.9
Male literacy rate                            60.9     62.3       63.7       65.1      66.5       67.9
Gender balance (females as % of males)       129%     127%       125%       124%      122%       121%
- 72 -



1996        1997       1998       1999       2000      2001
1. Population (source NSO)                     2,353,338  2,387,006  2,420,505
Population growth rate (% per annum)              1.5%       1.4%       1.4%
2. Health (source MoH)
Maternal deaths                                     90         71         80         90
Number of woman giving birth                    51,618     49,317     49,062     49,229
Number of live birffis                          51,806     49,448     49,256     49,461
Maternal mortality rate/l000 women giving birth   17.6       14.5       15.8        17.5
MMR per 1000 live births                          17.4       14.4       16.2       18.2
Infantmortality rate (per 1000 live births)      40.52      40.18      35.38      36.07       31.2
Number of infectious disease cases              28,113     25,293     28,290
Change in MMR (%)                                 -6%       -18%         9%        11%
Change in IMR (%)                                 -9%        -1%       -12%         2%       -14%
Change in No. of infectious diseases (%)         -14%       -10%        12%
3. Basic Education (source MoECS)
Number of schools                                  658        645        630
Primary school enrolment MoECS                    90.3       95.9       96.5       97.3       89.9
Female primary school enrolmentrate             91.5       97.2       97.3       98.3       91.2
Male primary school enrolment rate              89.1       94.5       95.7       96.3       88.6
Genderbalance (girls as %ofboys)               103%       103%       102%       102%       103%
Pupils reaching grade 5 (% of cohort)              77.1       77.3       81.3       80.9       83.6
Literacy rate                                      75.9       76.8
Female literacy rate                            82.5       83.1
Male literacy rate                              69.2       70.5
Gender balance (females as % of males)  _      119%       118%
- 73 -



- 74 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31531
I                                      II                                                                                                                                
8R'                             92                              95'                             100'                             104'                                            IO              112'                              11W                               120'
52
R U S 5I A N    FEDERATION                                                                                                                         R U S S I A N    FE DE RATI ON
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T S.,o4-,/    
H.r  ,  G S   f  t ) S/  >   >)                         To SIcn-Sdc                                                                     ' A
,<r                       'j'                                                       _'>1-' I/  Hol2Ool  2-o  one.                                                                                                                                         '3    Eh:l
,PI.16-     Va^On ,  _                  ("-A< ,ARHA<  
LG,A,4 LO                                  nn    \ -->,h  MonoGO I  HANGA                            Y                                     ttitiO  y I  .                                                                     /
)  0sonoino  y    ~~~~~~~                       ERDENEl".,-       O   c            
-'-O                       %2         _      ZAVrNAN              BoYo        sojtRr               ,         /~   pz                            UN=''$   B vZ KO  TAO oj   Hn n I   '
(Toro       .niu        ) 'Gurvonis JA                                   |   ~   cicndzaRHAN4GAI                                                                         OD LOADS
5   i   :                  voOn  OhlNOGOVf                  Nomgon  OErdenetsogt     |                      /                                         RAILRodO       TADoSsg bu og 1
-..j.._;_                                                                                           vRVR
.  ~           rCi~o                                                  no  con ,n jo'                               4frcln NAOA)A  A
The hn{co  Ocrn:bonhand onyrot info m                                                                                                                                                                                    PRVINCEBOUNARIEAlloy  S0.Hr\yhorA
on ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~nolo  ors m: d:nc.                                                                                      --f "mpiy onlcgo    Erdnn Cogo ofTeWrd4SG:p
0AImInT Tn                                        /       RAN2AY of _ny  NNGOR\                     VI On /  DUND or                                                      -        T      I      B     A
occeph ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ' ncech Hfsc  :n:e
rN.. V..                                              N              'bH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORsOGI DVTn )
0Oorconloc  x  Doloy    Dolon~Id.odg.d                                                    Hhh.,               -     MAIN ROADS
92.                                        0ihh010'                       C                               - - - -  SECONDARY ROADS
I                                        HOnSOn OMNOGOV!             N         RrdcnnI cgJNE)20
1 /                                   Nom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.gcc 0---'- RAILROADS
------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rc-RI VERS
  NATIONAL CAPITAL
__  _    _     __       _    _     _     __                                                                                                         0                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
S1        IO        200        355,       400        500 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                    DARHAN  PRINCIPAL CITIES
Th,. -o .oo od-d oby Ac~ Mc, Dm10 t dn Th. WoolS BonY                           C     H     I    N      A                                                                                                                                 OTHER SELECTED CITIES
TIh. Ycondoic, onIo, -coonlis c- oyorlh inlon-ncti-r- o,on                                                                                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
onI,,rnpdc,rr-n-ply,onIIsnPoScfTS  W-rldOc-kSrG-,o-y
lodocen-- rhlgl--,ofoycro-o cync.nno                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
92T'                                 9,6'                                  100'                                  104'~                                WSa.12                                                                      116'
JUNE 2001



