Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13963-MOG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONGOLIA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS PROJECT
MAY 22, 1995
Poverty, Population and Human Resources Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1995)
Currency Unit: Tugrik (Tug)
Tug 1.0 = $0.002
$1.00 = Tug 435
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
APAC        -     Aimag Poverty Alleviation Council
CMEA        -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DANIDA    -       Danish International Development Agency
DPAC        -     Dureg Poverty Alleviation Council
GOM         -     Government of Mongolia
IDA         -     International Development Association
IMF         -     International Monetary Fund
MOH         -     Ministry of Health
MOSE        -     Ministry of Science and Education
MPPL        -     Ministry of Population Policy and Labor
NGO         -     Nongovernmental Organization
NPAC        -     National Poverty Alleviation Committee
PAF         -     Poverty Alleviation Fund
PAFC        -     Poverty Alleviation Fund Council
PAP         -     National Poverty Alleviation Program
PAPMU       -     Poverty Alleviation Program Management Unit
PHRD        -     Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIM         -     Project Implementation Manual
PIP         -     Project Implementation Plan
SIF         -     Social Investment Fund
SPAC        -     Sum Poverty Alleviation Council
SSO         -     State Statistical Office
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    -       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA       -     United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF    -       United Nations Children's Fund
UNIFEM      -     United Nations Fund for Women
UPAC        -     Ulaanbaatar Poverty Alleviation Council
VGO         -     Vulnerable Group Organization
WFP         -     World Food Program
WHO         -     World Health Organization
GLOSSARY OF MONGOLIAN TERMS
Aimag       -     Province
Bag         -     Provincial Subdistrict
Dureg       -     Ulaanbaatar District
Feldsher    -     Rural Health Officer
Ger         -     Nomad's felt tent
Khot-ail    -     Encampment of cooperating herding households
Sum         -     Provincial District



MONGOLIA
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS PROJECT
CREDrr AND PRoJEcr SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Mongolia
Implementing Agencies:    National Poverty Alleviation Committee, Aimag (Province)
and Sum (District) Governments, Aimag and Sum Povert
Alleviation Councils
Poverty:                  Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                   SDR 6.5 million ($10 million equivalent)
Terns:                    Standard IDA, with 40 years' maturity
Comnuitment Fee:          0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:           See para. 4.20
Net Present Value:        Not applicable
Map:                      IBRD No. 26754
Project ID Number:        MN-PA-36417






CONTENTS
1   Introduction  ...........  .           ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .    .  1
2    Economic Transition and Poverty  .......................                                2
A.  Country Background  ..........................                                2
B.   The Economy  ..............................                                  2
C.   Poverty in Mongolia  ..........................                              3
D.  Social Cost of Transition   .......................                           5
3    Poverty AHeviation Strategy  ...........................                               10
A.  National Poverty Alleviation Program  ................                       10
B.   Poverty Alleviation Activities .....................                        12
C.   IDA Country Assistance Strategy  ..................                         12
D.  Lessons Learned from Bank Group Experience ....                 ......       13
4    The Project  .....................................                                     15
A.  Project Objective  .........              ...................                15
B.   Project Preparation  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  .          ..  ..  .    .  15
C.   Project Description  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .         ..  .    .  16
D.  Rationale for IDA Involvement ........  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
E.   Project Cost and Financing Plan  ........ .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
F.   Implementation Arrangements  ........  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
G.  Procurement ................  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..                     .   23
H.  Disbursements ...............  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...                    .   24
I.   Accounts and Audit ................ ...........                             26
J.   Monitoring and Evaluation.             ................                     26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal/negotiations mission that visited
Mongolia in April 1995 comprising: P. Aklilu (EA2HR, Task Manager), L. Griffin
(EA2HR), D. Elsen  (LEGEA) and K. Subbarao  (ESP).  J. Segerstrom  (EA2HR);
A. Abidi, J. Quinley, and R. Swamy (Consultants) have also participated in the preparation
assistance missions. I. Haidara (EA2HR) assisted in the processing of this project. The
peer reviewer is W. McGreevey (PHN). The managing Division Chief is Vinay K.
Bhargava and the Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- ii -
5   Benefits and Risks  .................................                              29
A.  Benefits  ..................................                             29
B.  Risks ....................................                               30
6   Agreements Reached and Recommendation  ....... ..                   ........       31
ANNEXES
1.  Project Implementation Plan-Excerpts  .....................                        33
2.  Mongolia: Poverty Data ..............................                              41
3.  Poverty Alleviation Program Indicative Financing Plan  ...          ........       44
4.  Project Implementation Manual-Excerpts  ...................                        46
5.  GOM's Resolutions 104 and 230 .........................                            71
6.  Organization Chart of the National Poverty Alleviation Program  ... ...            74
7.  Implementation Schedule ..............................                             75
8.  Disbursement Schedule ...............................                              76
9.  Project Performance Indicators ..........................                          77
10. IDA Supervision Plan ................................                              78
11. Selected Documents in the Project File  .....................                      79
MAP IBRD No. 26754



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1         To complement its economic stabilization and reform measures, alleviate
poverty and resurrect delivery of social services, the Government of Mongolia (GOM) has
launched a comprehensive National Poverty Alleviation Program (PAP) aimed at poverty
reduction from 26 percent of the population in 1994 to 10 percent by the year 2000.
Toward this end, the GOM presented its PAP to a meeting of donors in June 1994 in
Ulaanbaatar and reported progress at the Tokyo Donors' Meeting in November 1994. In
both these meetings the GOM's program received strong endorsement from the donor
community. This proposed project supports the most urgent aspects of the PAP aimed at
poverty alleviation among groups particularly vulnerable to the social cost of adjustment.
1.2         In April 1994, the GOM requested IDA to assist in the identification of a
poverty alleviation project focused on the poor among the vulnerable groups. In response,
IDA arranged project preparation financing by the Japanese Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) Fund. With a view to promoting client orientation and ownership,
project preparation responsibility was taken entirely by the GOM, with IDA providing help
through visiting preparation assistance missions. Arrangements were also made to split
administration of the PHRD fund between GOM and IDA. As part of project preparation
and to gain lessons for project design, the GOM implemented a series of pilot schemes in
income generation, education, health, and social assistance. IDA was responsible for
recruiting international consultants and providing selective assistance as needed. This
process culminated in the preparation of a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) by the GOM
which was discussed with IDA in Washington in January 1995. Key elements of the PIP
are presented in Annex 1.



- 2 -
2. ECONOMIC TRANSITION AND POVERTY
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
2.1         Mongolia, with a per capita income of $320, has unique features which
distinguish it from the rest of the developing world. A vast country with an area of 1.55
million kin2, Mongolia is a home for 2.26 million people of whom 25 percent are nomadic
herders. With a population density of 1.46 per kM2, Mongolia is the most sparsely
populated country in the world. It has a well educated population with an adult literacy
rate of 96 percent and sizable skilled labor. Its pastures and grasslands sustain over 26.8
million heads of livestock, or over 11 per person. Arable land is relatively abundant at
0.30 ha per capita (China has only 0.08 and Vietnam 0.10), albeit of low productivity.
Mongolia is well-endowed with natural resources. It has sizable reserves of copper and
other minerals, allowing the country to export approximately $100 per capita in minerals
alone and a potential for petroleum production in commercial quantities. However,
Mongolia's harsh and erratic semiarid continental climate constrains internal
communication and transport. The combination of severe continental weather and a sparse
population over a huge territory creates additional burdens for the poor when compared
to more benign physical environments.
2.2         Prior to 1990, Mongolia's social indicators were impressive relative to
countries at similar levels of development. Despite the dispersed population settlements
and limited communication networks exacerbated by adverse weather condition, the
population had enjoyed universal coverage of primary education, primary health services,
access to safe drinking water for humans and livestock, and state guaranteed employment
and social assistance. However, after 1990, when Mongolia launched an austerity program
and structural reforms to move towards a market economy and sustainable development,
its social indicators plummeted, resulting in an 8.5 percent registered unemployment rate,
30 percent of school age children not attending schools, a doubling of maternal mortality
from 0.12 percent in 1990 to 0.24 percent in 1993, the number of female-headed
households rapidly rising, and the real value of pensions and other social benefits
declining. Mongolia's post 1990 poverty predicament is now unprecedented.
B. THE ECONOMY
2.3         Mongolia had a centrally planned economy for 70 years, longer than China
and comparable in longevity with the former Soviet Union. The situation changed
dramatically with the termination of assistance of the former Soviet Union in 1990,
estimated at 30 percent of GDP, a substantial decrease in demand from its traditional
trading partners, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) which accounted
for 95 percent of Mongolia's exports, and unfavorable terms of trade. A sudden shortage
of spare parts and machinery from the Soviet Union caused serious problems to Mongolian
industry, which had become heavily reliant on Soviet technology. Disruption of trade with



- 3 -
other members of the CMEA forced Mongolia to find new trading partners and export
markets. Until recently, the price of key exports, notably copper and cashmere, declined
in world markets and demand in convertible currency markets became sluggish. As a
result, between 1990 and 1993 Mongolia's GDP declined for four years in a row as the
country underwent a rapid transition to a market economy. The cumulative loss in national
income amounted to 20 percent, real consumption per capita declined by a third, and real
investment by two thirds. Inflation accelerated, reaching 331 percent in 1993, and exports
and imports fell by more than half between 1990 and 1993.
2.4         During this period, the Government initiated a wide-ranging reform
program. To attain macroeconomic stability, fiscal and monetary policies were tightened
using a wide variety of measures.  To restore economic growth, the Government
introduced fundamental reforms to liberalize domestic and international trade, free
domestic factor markets, privatize public assets including 90 percent of state-owned
livestock, and improve private incentives to save and invest. The economy appears to be
responding to these initiatives. GDP contracted by only 1.3 percent in 1993 and is
estimated to have grown by 2.5 percent in 1994. Inflation slowed significantly in 1994 to
less than 70 percent. External, fiscal, and structural targets set for end-1993 and end-1994
and agreed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were met. Government savings,
which were negative earlier, turned positive. (Recent developments are reported in detail
in the Country Economic Memorandum, Report No. 13612-MOG, dated October 31,
1994.)
2.5          The key challenges still facing the Mongolian authorities are: (a) stabilization
of the economy; (b) full implementation of growth-promoting economic reforms; (c)
installation of a safety net for those least able to adjust to any adverse consequences of the
reform program; and (d) implementation of effective environmental policies to ensure that
growth, once resumed, is sustainable.
C. POVERTY IN MONGOLIA
Causes of Poverty
2.6         Several factors lie behind the recent incidence in poverty in Mongolia. In
addition to those factors mentioned earlier, pronatal policies of the past supported large
families with generous subsidies and welfare programs. In the current resource constrained
environment, subsidies and welfare programs have been cut, and this has pushed many
households below the poverty line. In addition, the privatization program for herds
resulted in many families owning a below-subsistence herd size. About 20 percent of
households (many of them headed by females) received less than 10 animals, not enough
for a family to survive on. Finally, structural reforms, although likely to generate growth
in the long run, are leading to significant amounts of frictional unemployment in the short
run as nonviable enterprises close in the face of changed economic circumstances. In this
context, expenditure cutbacks by the Government, especially the delivery of health and
education services, and imposition of a food-cost recovery policy in schools and hospitals
have hurt some segments of Mongolian society.



-4-
Incidence of Poverty
2.7         The poverty line in Mongolia is intended to represent a minimum standard
of living that enables a person to satisfy his/her basic needs measured by a basket of eight
expenditure items. Before 1990, poverty was not reported in Mongolia. However, by the
end of 1992, GOM estimated that about 16 percent of the population lived below the
poverty line; and by March 1994, the estimate rose to 26 percent. In 1994 there were
140,000 households or 600,000 people below the minimum living standard and 6 percent
of the total population belong to the group classified as absolute poor (with monthly per
capita income of less than 40 percent of the poverty line). Annex 2 presents detailed
poverty data. Table 2.1 presents official estimates of poverty in Mongolia.
Table 2.1: POVERTY INDICATORS
Poverty Line     No. of    No. of Poor      Population Below
Month/Year    Urban    Rural      Poor      Households        Poverty Line
--- (Tug/mo) ---    ---------- ('000) -----------  (%)
March 1992      350       220     350            70              16
March 1994    3,200    2,900      600           140              26 (6)
Note: Figure in parentheses is for the absolute poor.
Sources: MPPL 1995 and CEM 1994.
2.8         The identification of the poor and absolute poor is compiled by the aimag
(province) social security staff. The GOM and the Red Cross maintain lists of absolute
poor households, which are periodically checked and revised. While identification of the
poor is not difficult, the actual targeting and delivering of programs to assist the poor
remains a challenge.
Vulnerable Groups
2.9         The GOM has identified seven vulnerable groups adversely affected during
the transition to a market economy, including: (a) children who lost one or both parents;
(b) disabled persons; (c) the elderly without care; (d) the unemployed; (e) low-income
households with many children; (f) female-headed households; and (g) herders with few
animals. These groups are not mutually exclusive. (A detailed profile of the groups is
found in the PIP.) As of the end of 1993, about half of the poor lived in the cities, and
the other half in rural areas. On average, the poor account for a higher proportion of the
local population in aimags (20 percent) than in the cities (13.8 percent). About 46 percent
of the poor are aged 16 and below (roughly the same proportion as the population of that
age bracket); 41 percent are of working age; and 13 percent are over the working age.



- 5 -
However, notwithstanding categorical targeting, it is possible that some deserving poor
may be excluded, and some nonpoor may be included.  To further improve the
identification of the characteristics of the poor, target basic services to the poor and
establish a basis for improved monitoring of poverty trends, the Government is carrying
out a Living Standards Measurement Survey.
D. SOCIAL COST OF TRANSMON
2.10        The social costs of adjustment are of great concern to the Government. The
registered unemployment rate, now 8.5 percent of the labor force, is expected to rise
further in the short run as industries close and the Government's role contracts. Real
wages halved between 1990 and 1992, and declined by a third in 1993. Real average
pensions declined 60 percent between 1991 and 1993.
2.11        About one in every four poor persons belongs to a family where not a single
member is employed. Moreover, with the population growing at 2.3 percent a year and
the labor force at a rate of 3.4 percent a year, about 50,000 new entrants to the labor force
are anticipated every year. It is estimated that the economy needs to grow by at least
5 percent per year if these new entrants are to be absorbed in productive jobs and the
unemployment rate is to decline gradually. If this rate of expansion is not achieved, as is
likely for another two to three years, unemployment and poverty may be expected to
increase in the short term.
2.12        Unemployment is largely a result of closure or privatization of state
enterprises and consequent shedding of surplus labor which may push total unemployment
to 17 percent. The hardest hit sectors are construction, transport, and service workers
from state enterprises. Although many have come from a pastoral background, they cannot
return easily. At the current stage of the transition, there are limited opportunities for self-
employment for those without business and language skills and access to capital. Although
trade liberalization has resulted in the creation of many new opportunities, this has been
insufficient to compensate for the job losses caused by the economic contraction. Neither
employment contraction nor new job creation will necessarily be gender-neutral. Single
mothers are most likely to suffer disproportionately. Female-headed households, currently
at 21 percent of all poor households, are more vulnerable than male-headed households.
The closure of child care facilities has restricted women's abilities to participate in the
labor market even when new job opportunities arise. Under the proposed project,
financing would be provided to mitigate the effects of transition on employment
opportunities. Specifically, the project would include creating temporary employment
in public works and community-based productive activities.
2.13        In the long run, structural adjustment is expected to reduce poverty by
restoring growth and increasing employment, particularly in labor-intensive export-oriented
activities. It should, however, be complemented by steady improvement in the delivery
of social services, particularly education, health and social assistance.



-6-
Basic Education Services
2.14        During 1990-92, real public expenditure on education fell by 56 percent.
In 1990, the allocation for basic education services was equivalent to 11.3 percent of GDP,
but by 1993 it had dropped to 3.1 percent. Almost the entire budget is now being spent
on recurrent costs, and capital investment has been reduced to insignificant amounts.
Schools are deteriorating from lack of funds for maintenance; teachers leave the profession
for better-paying posts; curriculum, materials, and textbook problems in the system remain
to be resolved; and teachers and administrators need retraining to be effective in the
country's new social and economic order.
2.15        In the wake of the transition, the Ministry of Science and Education (MOSE)
in 1992 began implementing appropriate measures, albeit without safeguards for the poor,
to cut expenses and recover costs. These included halting capital investment in education,
retrenching noninstructional staff, introducing partial cost recovery for food in kindergarten
and boarding schools, reducing clothing subsidies, reducing the number of students sent
to former CMEA countries, and charging tuition fees in post-secondary and higher
education. In addition, schools have been encouraged to generate their own revenues by
providing services to enterprises and renting premises.
2.16        Food subsidies were reduced drastically. Kindergartens, which used to
provide free meals, now charge 50 percent of the cost of food, at about Tug 1,200 a month
per child. Boarding schools charge full price for meat. Students are required to provide
50 kilos of meat per year. Clothing subsidies for boarding schools, which were not a big
item, were phased out. Because of the steep rise in energy prices, overhead costs quickly
rose to the level of salaries, thereby crowding out expenditures on other items. For
example, in one sum heating and utility costs accounted for 60 to 70 percent of the budget.
Other sums were unable to pay teachers' salaries in winter. In 1992-93, MOSE closed 80
schools or 18.8 percent of the 426 rural schools during winter months in order to reduce
overhead cost. These savings totaling Tug 1 billion, however, were offset by an increase
of teachers' salaries.
2.17        The effect of declining school services has been far reaching. Enrollment
is declining dramatically and dropout rates are rising at all levels and in all regions of the
country. Dropout and nonenrollment in primary and secondary schools, which were
negligible before 1991, have become a serious problem in poor and pastoral aimags, and
increasingly so in Ulaanbaatar. In 1994, it is estimated that at least 25,000 children in the
age group 3-8, largely belonging to the poorest segments of society, are now out of
preschool, and that as much as 30 percent of the school age population (ages 8-17 or
Grades 1-10) are not in school. The differences between rural and urban populations are
even more alarming: 37 percent nonenrollment in the aimags compared to 16 percent in
the cities. According to MOSE, 40,000 children "dropped out" in 1992. A large number
of residential schools for nomadic children have been closed. Moreover, rural and
nomadic families increasingly face trade-offs in a market economy between sending their
children to school and having them remain at home to assist with economic activities to
support the family. The system now faces the additional burden of reorienting itself to



- 7 -
train the young for life within a market economy (i.e., management skills, market
economics, English, and as industry recovers, new technological skills) and to provide
incentives for families to participate in that education.
2.18        The main reasons given for increased dropouts and nonenrollments are: (a)
the privatization of livestock that increases the demand for child labor at home (in late
primary and secondary education), as well as the distance and separation from family for
some herder children to attend schools in sum centers (especially in kindergarten and early
primary education); (b) the high cost of heating schools and dormitories, leaving some
without heat; and (c) the withdrawal of food and clothing subsidies in boarding schools that
raises the direct cost of schooling for poor households. A substantial increase in the direct
and indirect cost of schooling in turn dampens the demand for education.
2.19        The Government has developed in its Master Plan for Education (1994) a
strategy to address the growing crisis in primary education. Increasing the enrollment of
school age children, improving school facilities, curriculum materials and text books;
exploring distance education and neighborhood schooling; retraining teachers and
administrators to meet the new economic and social demands; and enhancing teacher
salaries are the priority objectives. Under the proposed project, financing would be
provided to mitigate the adverse effects of economic transition on access to basic
education. Specifically, the project would include financing of various measures to
enhance enrollment in basic education and reverse the dropout and nonenrollment
rates.
Basic Health Services
2.20        Mongolia previously had good access to basic health services compared to
other developing countries, although many of the services were not efficient and some were
probably unsustainable.  Over the past three years, some of these services have
deteriorated. Although it is a short time to have measurable effects on health status, some
serious signs have begun to appear.
2.21        Inputs and services provided by the health sector in Mongolia have
substantially declined during this transition period. The number of medical staff employed
per 10,000 population declined 13 percent from 1990 to 1992, with another 6 percent
decline in all health sector staff in 1993. Salaries of the remaining staff have fallen in real
terms. Budgetary allocations for medicines, inpatient meals, and transport fuel have not
kept up with price rises for these items, resulting in many patients either having to pay for
or forgo such services. Total imports of drugs have been inadequate to meet needs,
resulting in absolute shortages. Nationwide, the average number of outpatient visits has
fallen by 40 percent (from 8 to 4.8 per capita) and inpatient admissions by 31 percent
(from 286 to 196 per 1,000 population) between 1988 and 1992.
2.22        Real expenditure on health services fell 43 percent over 1990-92. In 1990,
allocation for basic health services was equivalent to 4.5 percent of GDP, but by 1993 it
had dropped to 2.0 percent. The most striking effect has been a rise in the maternal



- 8 -
mortality rate from 12 per 10,000 live births in 1990 to 24 in 1993. Part of this rise can
be attributed directly to the decline in health services in rural areas. Over half of the
maternity rest homes are closed and transport services are inadequate to rural health
services, resulting in unattended home births and delayed hospital admissions. In addition,
shortages of supplies at hospitals have resulted in less appropriate therapy for those
admitted. Insistence on recovery of a part of food cost during hospitalization dissuaded
pregnant women from the poorest families from seeking hospital services for delivery.
2.23         Infant mortality rates in rural areas have remained high at around 64 per
1,000 births in spite of a 20 percent reduction of birth rates from the late 1980s to 1992.
The infant mortality rate was at a low in 1987 at 61 per thousand live births. In 1991, it
reached 72 per thousand live births. Some aimags are worse than others as regards health
care. Three rural aimags (Dornod, Hovsgol, and Hentiy) have a higher infant mortality
rate of 86 per thousand live births.
2.24         Health system finance is inadequate to restore access to basic services. Poor
working age adults who are unemployed are not covered by the health insurance system
(except for maternal care), and cannot afford to join voluntarily. The combination of
payments for insured patients and the reduced health budget are not enough to meet the
costs of providing medical services. In part this is due to low premium payments coupled
with cumbersome methods of reimbursement for some services. Consequently, drugs and
meals for inpatients that should be free are charged for (especially maternal patients);
shortages of heating/electricity, fuel and vehicles occurred; and loss of essential staff-
feldshers (rural health officers) and physicians-became widespread.
2.25         Essential drugs are often out of stock nationwide due to problems in the
supply and distribution even for those able to pay. For poor families, the 50 percent
copayment for all outpatient drugs is becoming unaffordable. Communications between
the aimag and sum (district) and community are difficult. Although this is not new with
economic reform, lack of adequate transport for both the surm hospital and the bag
(subdistrict) feldshers ha3 made it more severe. Medical equipment and the updating of
staff skills with inservice training are also inadequate.
2.26         The Government's strategy to address the long-term issues facing basic
health services has been articulated in the Health Sector Review prepared in July 1992
jointly by the World Health Organization (WHO), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
IDA and subsequently updated in July 1993 by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and WHO.
To meet the long-term basic health service requirements, the Government, as part of health
care reform, has introduced a Health Insurance System in January 1994. Other program
areas include upgrading maternal and child health care, improvement of health care
management, rehabilitation of sum hospitals and provision of equipment and transport and
communication systems, training of health workers, improving the cost effectiveness by
minimizing overprescription of drugs and excessive use of referral services. The proposed
project would support the immediate needs of the health sector to mitigate the adverse
effect of transition on the provision of basic health services, particularly among the



- 9 -
vulnerable groups. The project would support selected basic health services, to
improve maternal and child health care through fmancing of priority expenditures.
Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons
2.27        Mentally retarded and physically disabled children belong to the vulnerable
groups in Mongolia. It is estimated that over 25,000 children have some kind of disability
or special learning problem, of which the single largest group (about 10,000) are the
mentally retarded. Children with four other categories of disability include the blind, the
deaf and dumb, and the physically disabled. In Mongolia, special education is offered to
children with disabilities. However, since the transition, there has been a considerable
dropout of children from the special schools; many special learning centers have serious
shortages of equipment such as Braille kits, hearing aids, materials for ear molds, and
special teaching materials for the mentally retarded.
2.28        An estimated 24,600 persons of working age are disabled in Mongolia.
Among them, an estimated 12,600 (or 40 percent of all disabled adults) are single persons
without family support. The Country Report on Population and Development (GOM,
1993) noted with great concern the fact that disability has increased among young people.
It is important to involve the disabled in appropriate economic activities after providing
them with the required equipment and training.
2.29        Notwithstanding the significant steps taken by the Government of Mongolia
in improving the conditions of disabled children and adults, the current economic crisis is
impinging harshly on this vulnerable group. A reduction of support-both from the family
and the government-has worsened the condition of children and adults with disabilities.
Few disabled children actually receive education or training. In many aimags, special
classes for the disabled have been closed due to a lack of resources. Even in Ulaanbaatar,
attendance in special schools has dropped. The proposed project would support the
critical needs of children in kindergartens for the mentally retarded in Ulaanbaatar,
and the special equipment needs of training institutes/factories for the blind, deaf and
dumb and the physically handicapped.



- 10 -
3. POVERTY ALLEVIATION STRATEGY
A. NATIONAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
3.1         The Government, in pursuing its commitment at the Tokyo Donors' Meeting
in October 1993, has prepared a six-year, $83.0 million multisectoral PAP with assistance
from UNDP. The PAP is a set of interrelated tasks amenable to unified management
which are aimed at achieving the national development objective of substantially alleviating
poverty in Mongolia. The PAP has a three-pronged strategy including: (a) growth-oriented
and employment-creating economic policy; (b) development of human resources through
provision of basic education and health services; and (c) a targeted social safety net for
those who would not benefit from new employment opportunities in the short run.
3.2         The Government's program  to alleviate the impact of the structural
adjustment on the poor has two elements.  The first element seeks to promote the
productive use of the poor's most abundant asset-labor. This calls for policies that
harness market incentives and investments in physical capital. The second element is to
improve access to basic social services-primary health care, family planning services,
nutrition, and primary education-to the poor.  As a complementary measure, the
Government would promote temporary employment generating activities that are self-
selecting (by offering below-market wages attractive only to the poor) and, at the same
time, contribute to infrastructural development in the country. Through a combination of
growth in the economy and targeted poverty alleviation measures, the Government expects
a reduction in the number of poor from 26 percent of the population in 1994 to about
10 percent of the population by 2000. While the adopted strategy is appropriate, achieving
the target by year 2000 appears ambitious. The Government is encouraged by the
achievements of its stabilization and reform program and the prospects for renewed
economic recovery to reduce the poverty level. However, the Government also recognizes
the need to revisit the targets set for the PAP in light of implementation experiences and
the performance of the implementing institutions and the effectiveness of community
participation. Toward this end, IDA and UNDP would be closely associated with planned
annual reviews of the PAP to ensure the lessons are fully reflected in adjusting the
program.
3.3         In the longer term, the Government's program would shift from prevention
and remedial action to addressing the causes of poverty rather than the symptoms. The
strategy would focus on activities to sustain gains made in the short term. Such activities
would: (a) focus on poverty alleviation as a cross-cutting issue concerning the activities of
all government agencies, in particular those involved in economic policy making; (b)
restore cost-effective basic education and rural health services, which would reduce school
dropout rates and improve health indicators; (c) generate new opportunities for sustaining
a larger work force in the market economy; (d) develop an effective and well-targeted



- 11 -
social assistance program to provide the immediate basic needs to the poorest; and (e)
provide opportunities to develop and support genuine community participation.
3.4         The PAP comprises six thematic components: (a) poverty alleviation through
economic growth, (b) protecting human capital, (c) alleviating women's poverty, (d)
alleviating rural poverty, (e) strengthening the social safety net, and (f) policy management
and institutional strengthening. The GOM has indicated that it expects to cover half of the
costs of the $83.0 million PAP and anticipates donor support t3 cover the remainder of the
PAP budget. The GOM's proposed budget for the PAP is presented in Annex 3. In 1995,
GOM has allocated $10.0 million in the state budget for various programs under the PAP.
A National Poverty Alleviation Committee (NPAC) chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister
has been formed and is responsible for the overall poverty alleviation policy and program
development and intersectoral coordination. In line with the decentralized, participatory
and coordinated approach to the PAP, the GOM has designed an implementation strategy
which is described in detail in the PIP.
Poverty Alleviation Fund
3.5         To facilitate the financing of the PAP, the GOM has established the Poverty
Alleviation Fund (PAF) with four accounts for employment promotion, local development,
women and social assistance. Each is seen as a vehicle for resource mobilization (domestic
and external) aimed at specific objectives related to the program. These four operational
accounts will be complemented by special "project" allocations from aid agencies to
finance parts of the PAP.
3.6         The objectives of the Employment Promotion Fund are to promote
employment through support to small scale production activities, including small scale
enterprises, herders, local cooperatives, etc. The Local Development Fund will seek to
alleviate bottlenecks in infrastructure that are presently obstacles to socioeconomic
development and create employment opportunities.   The aim  of the Women's
Development Fund is to promote women in society through special assistance to increase
employment and income generation opportunities, and support structures. The objectives
of the Social Assistance Fund are to eliminate the worst forms of poverty through
financing of ongoing programs to those in greatest need, i.e., the residual group who will
not benefit from other activities in the program or are unable to participate in the labor
market. Each of these funds is described in detail in the PIP.
3.7         To assist the NPAC, an interministerial and nongovernmental organization
(NGO), the Poverty Alleviation Fund Council (PAFC), has been established to monitor the
allocation of PAF resources to aimags by the Poverty Alleviation Program Management
Unit (PAPMU). Under the overall management and monitoring of PAPMU, the Aimag
and Sum Poverty Alleviation Councils (APACs and SPACs), and community organizations
will be responsible for implementing projects financed under the PAF. In accordance with
the established project selection criteria and implementation guidelines, the APACs and
SPACs would have the power to allocate resources to eligible, locally identified schemes.



- 12 -
3.8         Although the PAP covers a broad range of investments, it is designed to
complement and strengthen other sectoral investments. Therefore, it should not been seen
as a unitary program, but rather as a general approach to poverty alleviation and an
umbrella for many different programs. The proposed project is designed to support only
specific initiatives within the PAF which best target poor populations and promote
community participation and the strengthening of local institutions.
3.9         What distinguishes PAF investments from those financed by the budgets of
line ministries for overall social services are the following set of principles and guidelines:
(a) community participation in project selection and implementation through PAP Councils;
(b) poverty targeting; (c) decentralization and shared responsibility for PAP programs with
central and local governments; and (d) sharing of program costs between central and local
governments. While these concepts are central to PAF, how they are applied will vary
among the different PAF subfunds.
B. POVERTY ALLEVIATION AcTIvITIEs
3.10        Different policies and programs are required to alleviate poverty: (a)
provision of income-generating opportunities for those of working age; (b) transfer
payments for those incapable of taking care of themselves; (c) investments in education for
children and orphans; and (d) provision of primary health care for the most poor.
3.11        There are several programs currently under implementation or in the pipeline
financed by various donors to improve health services, provide educational assistance,
expand employment, and test onlending facilities. For example, UNICEF, UNESCO and
DANIDA are providing assistance to improve specific education programs related to
dropouts, street children, teacher training, curriculum and teaching materials. WHO,
UNICEF and UNFPA are engaged in improving specific health programs related to
children, maternal care, family planning and others. UNIFEM has successfully supported
microenterprise credit to women and the United States has launched a small-scale rural
credit program under a Small Business Promotion Fund. In the future, such donor
activities may be channeled through one or more of the subfunds of the PAF.
3.12        The proposed IDA-assisted project would enhance social sector service
delivery capacity. It has been designed to be integrated into the overall PAP and will be
implemented within the PAP's institutional framework and funding mechanism. The
project funds will flow through the PAF's Local Development Fund.
C'. IDA COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
3.13        The core of IDA's country assistance strategy is to support the transition to
a market-oriented economy and to sustain economic growth. The strategy includes
measures with a short, medium and longer term horizon. IDA has already started to assist
Mongolia in these three fronts. In the short term, IDA's strategy is to strengthen the
Government's macroeconomic management capability through technical assistance and
continued dialogue on policy issues, in close consultation and coordination with the IMF.



- 13 -
Protection of vulnerable groups adversely affected during the transition also constitutes
IDA's assistance strategy in the short term. In the medium term, IDA's strategy is to
support the market transition through development of the private sector and financial
institutions. In the longer term, IDA's strategy is to help the Government develop and
implement a strategy to remove infrastructural bottlenecks for sustainable growth. IDA
would also complement its longer-term strategy by assisting the Government in the design
and implementation of a sustainable poverty alleviation and human resources development
program.
3.14        Since Mongolia became a member of the World Bank four years ago, IDA
has initiated economic and sector work and maintained a close policy dialogue with the
authorities, approved four credits and cochaired with Japan the annual donors meetings.
The identification of the most pressing economic issues was presented in the Economic
Memoranda in 1991 and 1994. To strengthen the technical capacity of the Government
to establish a market-oriented economy, urgently needed technical assistance was provided
through the Technical Assistance (Cr. 2321) and Economic Transition Support (Cr. 2551)
Credits. This was complemented by the approval of a quick-disbursing Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 2320) to finance urgent import needs. IDA is also supporting
the Government through a Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2615). The annual donors
meetings have been instrumental in eliciting donor support, initially for relief and balance
of payment support and, more recently, for longer-term, project-type assistance.
3.15        To pursue this strategy, IDA will continue to use the following instruments:
(a) active policy dialogue coordinated with the IMF and ADB (in the context of economic,
lending and sector work); (b) economic and sector work using the Bank's own resources
and the ongoing Technical Assistance Credit, and tapping the resources of other donors
that may wish to use IDA as an implementing agency; and (c) selected lending operations
with particular focus on the energy sector and poverty alleviation and human resources
development.
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE
3.16        Since the proposed project would be the first IDA-assisted poverty/human
resources sector operation in Mongolia, lessons are not available from previous operations.
However, lessons from pilot schemes in Mongolia (para. 4.3) and the Bank Group's
experience in supporting poverty alleviation projects and Social Investment Funds (SIFs)
in other countries have been considered in designing the proposed project. Most SIFs in
Latin America were created to alleviate the impact of adjustment programs on the poor.
The key lessons incorporated in the design of this project are that:
(a)   the poverty alleviation program is integrated into the economic transition
program to support the sustainability of economic reform and structural
adjustment;



- 14 -
(b)   political commitment at the highest level is demonstrated in the preparation,
review and approval of the PIP and the establishment of an independent
PAPMU;
(c)   a project implementation manual describing operating procedures, including
menus of subprojects eligible for funding under the PAF and appraisal
criteria, would be adopted;
(d)   to avert approval of ineligible subprojects, the Government would publicize
its transparent funding mechanism and procedure to the public, and release
of funds to the APACs would be contingent upon satisfactory compliance
with agreed procedures and full accounting of actual expenditures; and
(e)   targeting of the poor would be achieved by allowing community
participation in subproject identification and the use of self-targeting by
fixing wages slightly below the market rate.



- 15 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
4.1         The overall development objective of the project is to mitigate the adverse
effects of Mongolia's economic transition on the poor segments of the vulnerable groups.
The proposed project would contribute to the development of the institutional framework
for implementing and coordinating the PAP and facilitate community participation. As the
first donor-assisted project to be processed through the PAP framework, the project would
demonstrate the implementation process of the PAP, while focusing on short-term, quick
impacts with a view to: (a) creating gainful employment and income for the poor and
absolute poor in particular; (b) raising enrollment in basic education; (c) reducing matemal
and other mortality and morbidity; and (d) providing assistance to handicapped and
mentally retarded children and disabled persons.
B. PROJECT PREPARATION
4.2         The proposed project has been prepared by PAPMU under the supervision
of an interagency government task force with the assistance of consultants' services
financed by a Japanese PHRD Grant. The task force, headed by the Ministry of
Population Policy and Labor (MPPL), comprised sectoral ministries, the State Statistical
Office, Aimag Governments and NGOs. Based on an agreed outline with IDA, PAPMU
produced the draft PIP which was approved by the Cabinet. Following the technical
discussions held by a Government delegation headed by the Vice Minister of MPPL with
IDA staff in Washington in January 1995, the PIP was revised and formed the basis for
project appraisal.
4.3         As part of project preparation, selected pilot schemes-income generating,
education, health and social assistance-were tested which provided useful lessons in
formulating the project. To ensure local leadership and ownership of the project, sectoral
teams including local governments, NGOs and communities were designated the
responsibility for preparation and implementation of the pilot schemes. Implementation
of these pilot schemes and other similar initiatives in the country have demonstrated (a) the
viability of beneficiary participation in identification of income generating schemes, (b) the
increase in school enrollment due to improvements in school heating and availability of
transport, and (c) the ease in targeting the poor. The pilot schemes have also pointed to
the need for maximum decentralization of implementation authority particularly in view of
communication limitations during the long winter season.
4.4         Due to varying needs of the communities, the project includes menus of
eligible activities from which communities would identify schemes for funding.
Encouraged by the results of the pilot schemes, about 300 subprojects have so far been
identified and, subject to the selection criteria and the menus of eligible activities, would



- 16 -
comprise the pipeline for quick startup of the project. In preparation for implementation,
PAPMU, assisted by the Save the Children Fund (UK) and UNDP has completed a series
of training ("poverty awareness raising") workshops for selected aimag and Ulaanbaatar
officials and will cover the remaining aimags by May 1995. To publicize the program and
implementation procedure, the MPPL is also preparing a public information package
including a video film which will be aired on television and used for training.
4.5         To improve the Government's monitoring of poverty trends and targeting
of public policy and programs on the poor, a Living Standards Measurement Survey would
be completed by July 1995. The survey will also be used for a Poverty Assessment which
IDA will carry out jointly with the Government. This Assessment will enable the
Government to prepare the next operation for IDA assistance.
C. PROJECT DESCRWrON
4.6         The proposed project is an integral part of the government's PAP and
comprises subprojects under four sectoral components, as well as institution capacity
building.  Subprojects would be selected from menus of eligible activities for: (a)
community-based public works programs and other employment and income generating
activities for the skilled and unskilled workers who have been adversely affected during
the transition; (b) basic education; (c) rural health; and (d) support for handicapped and
mentally retarded children and disabled persons. Toward capacity building, the project
would support the institutional development of PAPMU and local governments responsible
for the poverty alleviation programs and monitoring poverty trends.
Income Generation ($5.94 million)
4.7         The income generation component of the project would create employment
opportunities through community-based programs of (a) public works including
infrastructure maintenance and environmental protection works, and (b) productive
activities. The menu of maintenance works for rehabilitation and/or preservation of
essential social and economic infrastructure includes feeder roads serving agricultural,
commercial or tourism needs, as well as schools, hospitals and community center buildings
including improved insulation for energy conservation. Other subprojects may include
essential services aimed at improving quality of life of rural and urban communities such
as rehabilitation of communal water supply, sanitation, garbage collection and disposal
facilities. Communities may also choose environmental protection works, such as
community-based "social forestry" programs for planting fast-growing trees for production
of fuel, fodder and construction material. Proposed schemes should be consistent with the
sectoral investment priorities.   For the productive activities, Vulnerable Group
Organizations (VGOs) would be organized to identify community-based income generating
schemes based on locally available resources similar to the successfully tested pilot
schemes. The menu for productive activities includes agricultural activities (small scale
vegetable and fruit farming, production of compost for use as fertilizer, maintaining small
livestock herds, production of hay and silage); natural resource exploitation and
conservation (open pit mining of coal and other minerals, exploitation of salt from lake



- 17 -
deposits, collection of wild-growing fruits, nuts, and berries and their preservation);
community services (animal drawn transport, repair and maintenance services for
buildings, roads, and other services); and handicrafts and food products (wool and leather
products, production of garments, footwear, wood and iron articles, bakery and dairy
products).
4.8          Selection Criteria.  Funds for income generation activities would be
allocated among aimags in proportion to the distribution of the absolute poor population
below the poverty line. Aimags' resources for income generation programs would also be
apportioned to each sum based on the distribution of absolute poor. The SPACs, assisted
by NGOs (where available) would identify the absolute poor members of the community
to form VGOs for productive activities. Community members in bag level meetings would
identify the priority needs for maintenance or improvement of Lhe communal infrastructure
at each of the participating aimag or sum centers. Annex 4 presents excerpts of the draft
Project Implementation Manual (PIM), describing the complete menu, detailed guidelines
for subproject preparation, and selection criteria and financing mezhanism. The adoption
and effectiveness of the PIM in fonn and substance acceptable to IDA is a condition of
credit effectiveness. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Borrower that
any amendment to the PIM that concerns any change in (i) subproject types, eligibility or
appraisal criteria, (ii) the criteria or the allocation of Credit funds to aimags and sums,
and (iii) procurement and disbursement procedures shall be subject to the prior approval
of IDA. The selection criteria would also ensure project sustainability. Some of the
common criteria for both the infrastructure maintenance and environmental protection
works, as well as the productive activities are listed below:
(a)   The work should be labor intensive, with cost of wages amounting to not
less than one half of the total cost of the scheme.
(b)   To confine employment generation to the vulnerable groups, wages to be
paid under the project should cover subsistence needs and be set at a level
below the prevailing market wage rates to ensure self-targeting.
(c)   Maximum use would be made of locally available inputs.
Basic Education ($2.0 million)
4.9          The proposed basic education component is aimed at reducing the dropout
and nonenrollment rates. IDA's assistance could be seen in this emergency situation as a
bridging arrangement to meet certain costs, both capital and recurrent expenditures. The
project would provide critical inputs needed to maintain and restore the level, equity, and
quality of basic education delivery. Since the exact need for inputs to the education system
varies from sum to sum, each sum will be allowed to decide which inputs (selected from
a menu of items agreed to be effective in raising school enrollments) are most critical in
its case, in accordance with the menu, guidelines, and criteria described in the PIM and
presented in Annex 4.



- 18 -
4.10        The menu of options for the education sector would include: heating
(installing less expensive room heating systems in schools or making repairs to existing
systems, including improved insulation); schools renovation; teaching materials; and
activities in nonformal education targeted at reducing the dropout and nonenrollment rate,
such as bag schools and mobile teachers.  What is being proposed is a return to
Mongolia's own traditional means of assuring effective, equitable, and quality education
for its rural citizens.  "Home-based learning," khot-ail (encampment of cooperating
households) schools, and ger schools all have existed in Mongolia before as have multiple
grade and multiple subject teaching.
4.11        Selection Criteria. To ensure that the investments selected would facilitate
higher enrollment in basic education, maximum participation and consultation of affected
households would be encouraged. SPACs would hold bag level meetings to mobilize the
views of affected households before deciding on the type of subproject. SPACs would
survey the number of students likely to attend existing schools or new bag located schools.
Relative distribution of dropouts/nonenrollment among aimags would determine the
allocation of resources by PAPMU. SPACs would adopt the following guidelines and
eligibility criteria:
(a)   Only renovation or regular maintenance of existing school buildings will be
considered.
(b)   Bag schools to accommodate those who are engaged in herding would be
encouraged.
(c)   Installation of low-cost alternative heating methods should be combined with
improved insulation of buildings.
(d)   Priority will be given to schemes with the highest school enrollment
increase per unit cost of investment.
(e)   The expected impact (benefit) and number of poor benefiting from the
subproject should be clearly defined in the proposal.
Rural Health Care ($2.0 million)
4.12        The proposed project would provide critical inputs needed to maintain and
restore the ability of rural health services (surn, bag and community levels) to reduce
maternal mortality and morbidity. Since the exact situation of health services varies among
sums, each sum will be allowed to decide which inputs (selected from a menu of items
considered suitable for project financing) are most critical in its case, in accordance with
the menu, guidelines, and criteria in the PIM, presented in Annex 4.  SPACs, in
consultation with the community members, will determine which of these inputs can be
covered with the available funds. Allocation of the Local Development Fund among
aimags would be based on the mortality indices of the aimags.



- 19 -
4.13        The menu of options for the health sector would include transport (repair
or replacement of the sum hospital vehicle in consultation with the MOH to ensure
coordination with other funding sources; provision of horses for transport for feldshers);
heating (installing low-cost and efficient room heating systems in sum hospitals); equipment
(very basic medical equipment for feldshers and sums); and training (community health
volunteers and possibly inservice training of other health staff).  For each input,
appropriate guidelines and conditions will be adopted. For example, the local government
must guarantee that adequate fuel would be made available for a new or repaired vehicle
or a sum hospital heating system, and that services will be provided to the absolute poor.
4.14        Selection Criteria.  Selection of health service improvement proposals
would ensure that those critical inputs with communitywide needs are met. From the menu
of eligible expenditures, the bag leaders would hold commuiity meetings to identify the
perceived priority health services.  While the scheme selection criteria would vary
depending on the input selected, the following would serve as a common guideline and
criteria:
(a)   Proposals should reflect the most commonly used, cost-effective preventive
health service by the community.
(b)   Proposals to reopen maternity homes should first consider the use of
existing hospital rooms.
(c)   Proposals for maintenance of existing sum hospital vehicles should be given
priority over purchase of new vehicles. Sums which have purchased new
vehicles since 1990 would be eligible only for maintenance budget.
(d)   Installation of low cost alternative heating methods should be combined with
improved insulation of buildings.
(e)   Proposals should clearly define the expected impact (benefit) and number
of poor benefiting from the subproject.
Support for the Disabled ($0.2 million)
4.15        The project has identified two priority groups for support.
(a)   First, the project would finance the special equipment needs of mentally
retarded and physically handicapped children.  Currently, the children
attending kindergartens for the mentally retarded in Ulaanbaatar are unable
to receive training or education owing to critical shortages of inputs. The
project would finance training materials, books, specialized medical
equipment, essential drugs and supplies. For the disabled and physically
handicapped children, the project would also finance the purchase of special
rehabilitative equipment (such as artificial limbs and wheel chairs).



- 20 -
(b)   Second, the project would finance the special equipment needs of the
institutes/factories training or employing disabled adults. The institutions
that would receive support include the special factory for the blind, the
training school for disabled persons, special factory for the physically
disabled, and the special institute for the deaf. The project would finance
the purchase of specialized equipment including Braille kits and paper,
specialized typewriters, sewing, hairdressing and cooking equipment,
hearing aids, etc. The project would enable the disabled (adults) to engage
in appropriate economic activities and improve their living conditions.
Institutional Support ($0.39 million)
4.16        The institutional arrangement for project implementation is intended not only
to cater to the proposed project but also to develop umbrella organizations capable of
managing local and external assistance for the PAP. To upgrade limited national and local
implementation capacity, the project would provide technical assistance to build the
management, implementation and monitoring capacities of participating institutions.
4.17        To build PAPMU's and APACs' capacities, UNDP and the GOM, using the
proceeds from the IDA credit, would provide funding for technical assistance which will
be coordinated by the UNDP. To that effect, UNDP will make funds available to the
Government in pursuance of a project document and the GOM will enter into an agreement
with UNDP for the administration of IDA institutional support funds. The technical
assistance would comprise short- and long-term international and local consultants to
develop PAPMU's institutional, management and operating procedures, and develop
supervision, monitoring and evaluation methods, and a management information system.
Local and overseas training of PAPMU and APACs' staff, office equipment and vehicles
would be financed under the institutional support technical assistance carried out under an
umbrella program by UNDP. PAPMU's operating costs would be initially (for six
months) financed under the UNDP program, but thereafter the Government would take
over the expenditures using its project counterpart contribution. During negotiations it was
agreed that effectiveness of a technical assistance project document with UNDP and of
contractual arrangements for execution by UNDP are conditions of IDA credit
effectiveness. The draft program for technical assistance and training is described in the
PIP.
D. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
4.18        The social cost of transition is manifested by the sharp decline in the
standard of living of the vulnerable groups particularly for women and children, erosion
of human capital and the deteriorating basic health indicators. While encouraging the
Government to sustain the adjustment program vigorously, IDA's country assistance
strategy calls for the protection of the vulnerable groups as an integral part of its assistance
strategy. Moreover, for the reform program to continue enjoying broad based public
support, a corner stone of IDA's country assistance strategy, IDA's support for the PAP
is critical. Toward this end, the proposed project is consistent with the country assistance



- 21 -
strategy presented jointly with this operation to the Board. In collaboration with the IMF
and ADB, IDA is actively supporting the Government's economic reform program. Even
with the continued implementation of the stabilization and reform programs with minimal
slippage and without large external shocks, GDP growth is expected to average 4.5 percent
for the next five years. This level of growth falls short of fully absorbing new entrants to
the labor market and redeployment of surplus labor from the state enterprises. To
complement this effort, it is equally crucial for IDA to assist the Government's program
targeted at the vulnerable groups. IDA's wealth of experience in poverty alleviation
operations in general and social investment funds in particular, makes it well qualified to
take a lead assistance role through the proposed operation. IDA's experience in the
institution building of social funds in Latin America and Africa is also a valuable asset for
the proposed project and has attracted cofinancing. The social fund framework being
established in Mongolia with IDA and UNDP assistance would also facilitate additional
donor contributions. IDA involvement in the poverty alleviation program is also a suitable
entry point to address the long-term human resource development issues planned for FY98.
Finally, Mongolia's performance in aid utilization has been satisfactory and deserves
continued IDA assistance.
E. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
4.19        The total project cost is estimated at $10.53 million. Since the specific
subprojects are yet be identified by the communities with variable unit costs and quantities,
physical and price contingencies are not included.  Similarly, the foreign exchange
component, estimated to account for 9 percent of the total project cost is indicative. Table
4.1 presents a summary of project costs.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
($ Million)
Foreign
Project Component          Local  Foreign  Total  % of Total  Exchange (%)
Income Generation           5.94     -       5.94      56
Education                   1.80    0.20    2.00       19            10
Health                      1.40    0.60    2.00        19           30
Support for Disabled        0.20     -       0.20       2
Institutional Support       0.29    0.10    0.39        4           100
Total Project Costs       9.63    0.90   10.53      100             2
4.20        The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million equivalent would finance
95 percent of the total project cost (100 percent of foreign and 94 percent of local costs)
and the GOM would contribute the balance. GOM's initial counterpart contribution for



- 22 -
1995 equivalent to $47,000 has been allocated directly to the aimags in the 1995 budget.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would open and maintain
the PAF account in the Mongol Bank and deposit into such account amounts equivalent to:
(i) $85,500 not later than January 10, 1996, (ii) $132,500 not later than January 10 in
each of the following years: 1997, 1998, and 1999. Allocation of GOM and IDA
resources is shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
($ Million)
Source         Local       Foreign       Total
Government      0.53        -             0.53
IDA             9.10        0.90         10.00
Total        9.63       0.90         10.53
F. IPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.21        The NPAC, an interministerial and NGO committee, chaired by the Deputy
Prime Minister, would oversee implementation of the PAP and would ensure that
ministries and local govemments adhere to agreed policy and implementation guidelines.
In December 1994, under Government Resolution 230, presented in Annex 5, PAPMU was
reorganized as an autonomous entity under the supervision of NPAC, reporting directly to
the Minister of MPPL in his capacity as Deputy Chairman of NPAC. This new status
confers on PAPMU a degree of independence from the procedures and rules of a line
ministry department. PAPMU would provide secretariat assistance to NPAC, and the
Director of PAPMU would be the Secretary of NPAC. During negotiations, assurances
were obtainedfrom the Borrower that PAPMU shall have adequate staff and a jull time
Director with suitable qualiflcations satisfactory to IDA. Resolution 104 also announced
the formation of APACs (see Annex 5). Details on the institutional arrangements for
implementation and monitoring is presented in the PIP and Annex 6 shows the
Organizational Chart of all participating institutions and the beneficiaries. As a condition
of credit effectiveness, the Borrower shall ensure, by appropriate legislative instrunent,
that the implementing agencies are bound by the Development Credit Agreement and the
PIM, and instructing sum governments to establish SPACs, and giving PAPMU, APACs,
and SPACs the capacity to enter into agreements and maintain bank accounts. The
project's implementation schedule is presented in Annex 7. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1998.
4.22        As the Government's focal point for poverty alleviation, PAPMU's mandate
inter alia would include: (a) monitoring the implementation of decisions of the NPAC; (b)
preparing annual work plans and monitoring that the APACs and SPACs adhere to the



- 23 -
criteria established for approving locally initiated subprojects; (c) ensuring that PAF is
adequately funded and remains liquid; (d) ensuring projects are properly monitored and an
appropriate data bank is established for timely evaluation; (e) organizing training for the
APACs and SPACs; (f) publicizing the activities financed by the PAF; (g) ensuring that
public policy and expenditures have a poverty focus; and (h) issuing progress reports to
the NPAC and the donor community. During negotiations, agreements were reached for
PAPMU to submit to IDA Six-Month Project Progress Reports in accordance with afonnat
satisfactory to IDA.
4.23         PAPMU's counterparts at the aimag level are the APACs and the
Ulaanbaatar Poverty Alleviation Council (UPAC)1/ with full-time technical staff
supported by existing staff from the line departments to help administer their programs.
Subprojects submitted by the SPACs would be reviewed by the APAC Secretariats and
presented for approval to the APACs. Other key responsibilities of the APAC Secretariats
would be to monitor the implementation of subprojects, documenting lessons learned and
maintaining proper project accounts. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom
the Borrower to cause the APACs to submit quarterly project progress reports and accounts
to PAPMU.
4.24         The SPACs, in consultation with beneficiaries, would be responsible for
identifying priority community-based income generating schemes, education and health
subprojects for approval by APACs.  Mongolia's small population lends itself to a
manageable targeting of public programs to the absolute poor. VGOs will be organized
and be responsible for implementing the productive activities. VGO representatives will
also be associated with the SPACs in supervising project financed activities.  Sum
administrations maintain detailed information on household incomes and classification of
residents by income groups. Effective participation of the vulnerable groups in identifying
community-wide needs is a key to successful implementation and sustainability of the
program. To facilitate meaningful participation, the SPACs assisted by NGOs (where
present) would promote the formation of group organizations prior to undertaking any
community-wide programs. Assurance wvas obtainedfrom the Borrower that it would cause
the SPACs to involve beneficiaries and NGOs in the identification, implementation, and
supervision of the subprojects.
G. PROCUREMENT
4.25         Except for technical assistance, the specific subproject works and goods to
be financed under the project will be determined by local communities, and the
procurement items shown in Table 4.3 are indicative. Since most of the subprojects
(works and goods) to be financed under the project are geographically scattered with
average costs less than $6,000, and therefore not suitable for contract packaging, direct
contracting and national shopping procedures would be applied. International shopping
1/ UPAC should be considered for the purpose of this report to be on the "aimag" level and included in all
references to APACs. The UPAC's counterpart on the 'sum" level is the dureg with its Dureg Poverty
Alleviation Councils (DPACs) and should be considered to be SPACs.



- 24 -
procedures would be applied for all other subproject goods involving vehicles and
equipment. The SPACs with beneficiary involvement would be responsible for all direct
contracting and national shopping (except for vehicles and equipment). PAPMU would
make arrangements for other national shopping and all international shopping.  For
subproject works estimated to cost less than $4,000, up to an aggregate amount of $3.56
million, direct contracting by the SPACs with beneficiary involvement would be adopted.
For other subproject works estimated to cost less than $10,000 but more than $4,000, up
to an aggregate amount of $5.78 million SPACs would follow national shopping
procedures. For subproject goods, with an average estimated cost of less than $50,000 and
not exceeding an aggregate amount of $300,000, national shopping procedures would be
applied.  International shopping procedures would be adopted for subproject goods
(vehicles, parts and equipment) with contract values between $50,000 and $200,000 up to
an aggregate amount of $500,000. In each case of national and international shopping,
contracts would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers. All procurement of subproject goods would be made in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines of January 1995.  GOM  would contribute
$100,000, from the IDA credit, to the UNDP financed technical assistance project and will
designate UNDP on a sole sourcing basis to administer the funding for consultant services
under the project. All contracts above $50,000 for individuals and $100,000 for firms
would be subject to prior review by IDA. Employment of local and foreign consultants
would be in accordance with the guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published in August 1981.
H. DISBURSEMENTS
4.26        Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures: (a) subprojects: 100 percent of disbursements on subprojects approved
according to eligibility criteria described in the PIM, and (b) 100 percent of expenditures
for consultant services. These disbursement percentages are presented in Table 4.4. The
disbursement schedule is presented in Table 4.5. The project implementationl period is
four years as shown in Annex 7. The credit Closing Date will be June 30, 1999. This
disbursement schedule is consistent with similar operations in Latin America. On average,
each SPAC would be eligible to utilize $30,000 during the disbursement period.



- 25 -
Table 4.3: INDICATIVE SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ Million)
Item                                           Total /a
Subprojects:
Goods                                           0.80
(0.80)
Works                                           9.34
(9. 10)
Institutional Support:
Consultant Services                             0.10
(0. 10)
Operating Costs                                 0.29
Total                                           10.53
(10.00)
/a   Includes direct contracting, national and international shopping,
and consultant appointments.
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Category                  Amount ($ million)    Expenditure to Financed (%)
1. Subproject financing:                                  100%
a. income generation           5.7
b. basic education             2.0
c. rural health services       2.0
d. support for the disabled    0.2
2. Institutional Support
a. consultant services         0.1                     100%
Total                     10.0
4.27        To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, the
Government would establish and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,



- 26 -
Table 4.5: ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
IDA Fiscal Year             1996           1997           1998          1999
Annual                       2.5            3.0            3.0            1.5
Cumulative                   2.5            5.5            8.5           10.0
a Special Account. The Account would be denominated in US Dollars, with an authorized
allocation of $700,000; however, the authorized allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $500,000 until disbursements and outstanding commitments against the Credit
equal or exceed $1.0 million. Applications for replenishment of the Account, supported
by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not
less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit.
4.28        Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) for: (a) actual expenditures against subproject financing below $50,000; and (b)
consultants' contracts of less than $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent
for individuals and local training. PAPMU may also submit applications for direct
payments to suppliers for amounts exceeding $20,000 equivalent. All reimbursements
against prefinanced expenditures using Government resources would be deposited into the
Government's Local Development Subfund. To accelerate the implementation of the
project, it is recommended to finance retroactively up to $0.15 million of expenditures
approved after June 1, 1995 in accordance with the PIM. This facility would allow the
start up of the project before the onset of the harsh winter season that would prohibit work
on many subprojects. The disbursement schedule by semester is presented in Annex 8.
I. AccouNTs AND AUDIT
4.29        Each aimag would be required to maintain a separate project account on
funds received from PAPMU, allocations made to sums and expenditures made on
subprojects.  These accounts will be consolidated by PAPMU and audited by an
independent auditor in accordance with acceptable auditing practices. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that PA PMU would maintain a separate project account and
would submit to IDA, within six months after the end of each fiscal year, an annual audit
report including the Special Account, by independenw auditors acceptable to IDA, including
a separate opinion on SOEs.
J. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.30        PAPMU has identified a set of key progress indicators for monitoring
delivery of inputs and achievement of project output and key development impact



- 27 -
indicators. A list of indicators, to be monitored by the APACs under the overall guidance
of PAPMU, is presented in Annex 9 and summarized in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
Input               Output                      Impact
Budget Allocation    Employment Created            Income per Job
Budget Allocation    Hospital Transport          Maternal Mortality
Budget Allocation    Schools with Heating        School Enrollment
Budget Allocation   Equipment for Disabled   Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons
4.31        Consultants will be appointed under the project to design a management
information system including the mechanism for collection of baseline data. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that PAPMU establish a management infonnation
system by November 30, 1995. To achieve the Government's objective of reducing the
incidence of poverty from 26 percent of the population in 1994 to 10 percent by year 2000,
the government recognizes that GDP growth at the rate of 5 percent per year is a necessary
condition. However, the PAP and the specific interventions under the proposed project
aim to ensure that poverty does not remain unchecked, school dropouts and nonenrollment
do not increase, maternal mortality does not continue to rise and those unable to participate
in the labor market are provided their basic needs.
Supervision Plan                                                                 4
4.32        PAPMU will have primary responsibility for making adequate arrangements
for the supervision of subprojects financed under the project. Since the subprojects would
be scattered throughout the country, the APACs, under the overall guidance of PAPMU,
will visit the subproject sites and ensure that the approved resources are being used for the
agreed purposes and monitor the development impact of the subprojects. In each aimag,
the staff from the Labor Exchange, Social Policy, and Social Security would be responsible
for supervising the subprojects. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the
Borrower to cause the APACs to designate the staff responsible for supervision and provide
adequate facilities for field visits. Assurances were also obtained from the Borrower to
cause PAPMU to carry out annual reviews of the project by September 30 of each year,
starting in 1996, and prepare and implement an action plan to correct deficiencies in
project implementation identified during the review.  To supplement the Borrower's
supervision effort, joint IDA/UNDP missions will visit Mongolia twice a year to review
progress, with particular emphasis on monitoring the development impact based on the
agreed key indicators and institution building. IDA in collaboration with PAPMU would
also organize a Project Launch Workshop in September 1995. It is estimated that an
annual average of 20 staff-weeks would be required for supervision during the next three
and a half years.  A detailed supervision plan is presented in Annex 10. During



- 28 -
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that an Implementation
Completion Report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the credit closing date.
Sustainability
4.33        The long run sustainability of poverty alleviation would only be assured
when the growth of the economy recovers allowing employment opportunities to emerge,
and public expenditures on basic education, health and other social services are provided
adequate funding. It is also recognized that during the transition, the limited domestic
resources would have to be augmented substantially to support the poverty alleviation
program. In the interim period, sustainability of the specific programs financed under the
project would be assured by adhering strictly to the subproject selection criteria requiring
the formation of group organizations and the identification of community-based subprojects
for which recurrent budget allocation would be assured. To link the short-term measures
which are being supported under the proposed operation with the long-term measures, it
was agreed during negotiations that the Government would review its planned expenditures
for the delivery of priority basic education, health, and other services and develop a draft
strategy for providing social services on a sustainable basis over the next five years to be
submitted to IDA for review not later than December 31, 1995. IDA would be closely
associated with the study with a view to identifying a follow-up operation in the human
resources sector planned for 1998.



- 29 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1          The project would contribute to the attainment of the goals set in the PAP
by mitigating the social costs of adjustment which if not addressed will undermine the
Government's economic reform program. Public works and productive activities would
generate 0.7 million person-months of temporary employment for all the absolute poor of
working age. Moreover, the long neglected public infrastructure would be rehabilitated,
improving opportunities for local area development. The project would contribute to
raising the school enrollment rate from 70 to 85 percent. In addressing the gender-related
effects of poverty, reduction of maternal mortality is the focus of the rural health services
component which is aimed at achieving the pretransition level of 12 per 10,000 births.
The services and capacity of four institutions serving the disabled would be enhanced
through this project. In all it is expected that approximately 600 physically disabled and
mentally retarded children and adults would be directly assisted by this project. Through
the development and capacity building of the PAP institutional mechanism, this project
would provide for the longer term sustainability of PAP with a mechanism for channeling
other donor support. Creating an enabling environment for the community in general and
the poor in particular to participate in identifying community needs in infrastructure,
education and health would form the basis for a sustainable development approach.
5.2         Environmental Aspects. The project design does not have any direct
environmental impact.
5.3         Poverty Category. The project meets the criteria for inclusion in the
Program of Targeted Interventions because: (a) the project has specific mechanisms for
targeting the poor through the allocation of funds to the APACs, and (b) the population of
project beneficiaries has a significantly larger proportion of poor people (nearly
100 percent) than the country's population as a whole (26 percent).  The target
beneficiaries of the project are the absolute poor among the vulnerable groups who are
currently unable to meet their basic needs together with those who may fall into these
groups. As female-headed households constitute the largest group of poor, a particular
focus of the project will be addressing the gender-related causes of poverty. Mongolian
society as a whole would benefit from the project through increased financial resources
diverted away from subsidies to priority community identified activities; through better use
of underemployed resources; and greater socioeconomic stability as a result of increased
equity, opportunity, and human development.
5.4          Program Objective Categories. Given the gender-specific dimension of
poverty, special efforts will be made to target poor women and to address the gender-
related causes of poverty. Program components will build on or operate through, to the
extent possible, existing central and local structures rather than aim at the establishment



- 30 -
of separate services/facilities for the poor. Though the program will fully focus on the
identified poverty groups, maximum attention will be paid to linking poverty alleviation
activities to other human resources development policy decisions and promoting poverty
as cross cutting public policy concern.
B. RISKS
5.5         A key project risk is the limited institutional capacity to plan, implement,
monitor and evaluate a multisectoral poverty alleviation program. Project implementation
is largely delegated to local government entities and community organizations with limited
experience in decentralized decision making. Moreover, if donors provide assistance for
poverty alleviation outside the institutional framework of the PAP, local governments may
be burdened by additional administrative and management procedures. The institutional
capacity constraints in the government would be reduced by mobilizing donor support and
coordination to strengthen existing structures and through expanding ongoing programs and
limiting new initiatives to a small proportion of the project activities. Staff training and
awareness-raising seminars for senior local government officials, NGOs and beneficiaries
are also being provided. Another risk is the possible failure in targeting the poor to benefit
from the project. To ensure effective targeting and delivery mechanisms, there will be
local community based identification of the vulnerable people jointly by government and
NGOs.



- 31 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would:
(a)   get prior IDA approval before making key amendments to the PIM (para.
4.8);
(b)   open and maintain a PAF account in Mongol Bank and deposit into the PAF
account amounts as follows: (i) an amount equivalent to $85,500 not later
than January 10, 1996, and (ii) an amount equivalent to $132,500 not later
than January 10 in each of the following years: 1997, 1998, and 1999 (para
4.20);
(c)   ensure that PAPMU shall have adequate staff and a full time Director with
suitable qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.21);
(d)   cause PAPMU  to submit six-month progress reports with a format
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.22);
(e)   cause the APACs to submit quarterly progress reports and accounts to
PAPMU (para. 4.23);
(f)   cause the SPACs to involve beneficiaries and NGOs in the identification,
implementation, and supervision of subprojects (para. 4.24);
(g)   cause P.APMU to maintain a separate project account and submit to IDA,
within six months of each fiscal year, an annual audit report including the
Special Account, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, including a
separate opinion on SOEs (para. 4.29);
(h)   cause PAPMU to establish a management information system by November
30, 1995 (para. 4.31);
(i)   cause the APACs and SPACs to make arrangements for supervision and
provide adequate facilities for field visits (para. 4.32);
(j)   cause PAPMU to carry out an annual review of the project by September
30 of each year, starting in 1996, and as part of each review to prepare and
implement a program of action, satisfactory to IDA, to deal with
deficiencies in project implementation identified during the review (para.
4.32);



- 32 -
(k)   cause PAPMU to submit an Implementation Completion Report within six
months of the credit closing date (para. 4.32); and
(1)   review its planned expenditures for the delivery of priority basic education,
health, and other services and develop a draft strategy for providing social
services on a sustainable basis over the next five years, to be submitted to
IDA for review not later than December 31, 1995 (para. 4.33).
6.2         As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Borrower will:
(a)   have NPAC adopt and make effective the Project Implementation Manual
in form and substance acceptable to IDA (para 4.8);
(b)   enter into and make effective an agreement with UNDP for technical
assistance and contractual arrangements with GOM and UNDP (para. 4.17);
and
(c)   adopt an appropriate legislative instrument to ensure that the implementing
agencies are bound by the Development Credit Agreement and the PIM and
instructing sum governors to establish SPACs and giving PAPMU, APACs
and SPACs the capacity to enter into agreements and maintain bank
accounts (para. 4.21).
6.3         Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a credit of
SDR 6.5 million ($10 million equivalent) to Mongolia. The credit would carry standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 33 -                         ANNEX 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND PART IV ONLY PRESENTED HERE
(COMPLETE DOCUMENT IS IN THE PROJECT DOCUMENT FILE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Part I: Country Background
A. Income Poverty in Mongolia
Causes of poverty
Measurement of income poverty
Profile of poverty
Vulnerable groups
B. The Decline of Social Services
Education
Health
C. Social Protection
Social Insurance
Health Insurance
Social Assistance
Part II: Poverty Alleviation in Mongolia
A. The Government's Strategy for Alleviating Poverty
B. The National Poverty Alleviation Program
Program Components
Program Institutional Framework
Program Implementation
C. Other Ongoing and Planned Poverty Alleviation Activities
Part III: The Project
A. Project Scope and Objectives
B. Project Design
C. Income Generation Component
D. Rural Health Services Component
E. Basic Education Component
F. Support for the Disabled Component
G. Institutional Support Component
H. Project Costs and Financing
Project cost and Financing Plan
Disbursements



- 34 -                         ANNEX 1
Part IV: Project Implementation
A. Implementation Arrangements
Responsibilities of NPAP Institutions and Other Organizations
Implementation Agreement Between the Borrower and Implementation Agency
Relationship Between Implementing Agencies and Other Entities
Role of the World Bank During Project Implementation
Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation
B. Preparation for Project Implementation
Preparation for Implementation of NPAP
Preparation for Implementation of Project
C. Component Implementation Plans
Implementation of Components within the Local Development Fund
Implementation of the Social Assistance Component
Implementation of the Institutional Support Component
D. Schedule of Disbursement
E. Specific Actions to Achieve the Project's Development Impact Objectives
F. Project Accounting and Financial Management System
Part V: Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Key Development Impact Indicators for Measuring Progress in Reaching Project
Development Objectives
B. Key Progress Indicators for Monitoring Delivery of Project Inputs and
Achievement of Project Outputs
Part VI: Benefits and Risks
A. Benefits
B. Risks in Meeting Project Objectives
Government of Mongolia's Economic Reform Program
Implementation Capacity
Other
C. Project's Sensitivity to Risks
Annexes
1. Proposed NPAP Institutional Strengthening and Training Project
2. Preparation for Implementation of NPAP
3. Flow of Monitoring Information



- 35 -                         ANNEX 1
PART IV: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Responsibilities of NPAP Institutions and Other Organizations
4.1 National Poverty Alleviation Committee: The NPAC will oversee implementation
of the PAP and ensure that ministries and local governments adhere to agreed guidelines.
4.2  Poverty Alleviation Fund Council: The PAFC (to be established) will be
responsible for approving and monitoring the allocation of project resources to the aimags
and Ulaanbaatar.
4.3 Poverty Alleviation Program Management Unit: PAPMU will be responsible for
the overall management and implementation of the project through its responsibility as
administrator of the PAF. In addition it will maintain separate accounts for the project and
report on the progress of implementation to the NPAC and IDA. PAPMU will be
responsible for preparing a Project Implementation Report 6 months after the start of
implementation.
4.4  Aimag/Ulaanbaatar Poverty Alleviation Councils: APACs will be responsible for
approving and supervising subprojects and allocating resources from project components
to sums in line with guidelines set out in the PIM.
4.5   APAC/UPAC Secretary: The APAC/UPAC secretary will be responsible for
supporting local government agencies with implementation, administration, monitoring and
promotion of project components. In particular, it will ensure that the subproject proposals
submitted to the APAC/UPAC conform with component guidelines.
4.6  Sum/Dureg Poverty Alleviation Councils: The SPAC, with local beneficiaries, will
be responsible for the formulation, implementation and supervision of subprojects within
component guidelines.
4.7  Local Government: Branches of the aimag and sum government will assist in
supervising the various components of the projects at the local level.
*    The aimag Labor Exchange will assist with the supervision of the income
generation projects
*    The Social Policy Department of the aimag Governor's Office will assist with the
supervision of the health and education components
4.8  These local agencies will also assist the APAC Secretary with the promotion and
administration of the component.



- 36 -                         ANNEX 1
Implementation Agreement Between the Borrower and Implementation Agency
4.9  PAPMU as the agency responsible for overall NPAP implementation will manage
the IDA assisted project and be responsible for its implementation. As such, it will ensure
that all subprojects conform to guidelines and criteria of the project as detailed in
component Project Implementation Guidelines to be agreed with the Government and IDA.
It will also report to the Government of Mongolia as borrower on the progress of the
project including provision of financial statements as required.
Relationship Between Implementing Agency and Other Entities
4.10 Line Ministries: Line ministries will be represented on the NPAC and the PAFC
and will play the lead role in the development of the general and specific Activity Area
guidelines contained in the PIM.
4.11 Beneficiaries: The beneficiaries of the health, education components as well as the
public works subcomponent will directly participate in the identification of priority
subprojects and the process of formulating subprojects in their sum through participatory
meetings of the bag community. In the income generation component beneficiaries will
be directly involved in the implementation of subprojects through membership of VGOs.
4.12 Consultants: In addition to the full time staff of PAPMU national consultants will
be required to assist the administration and implementation of the PAF. Such consultants
will be employed to undertake activities such as training and awareness raising, monitoring
and evaluation and assistance with the PAF Management Information System.
Role of IDA During Project Implementation
4. 13 IDA will be closely associated with PAPMU in the annual reviews of the project
starting in September 1996. It will also undertake supervision of the project at regular
intervals and respond to Government requests for technical inputs.
Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation
4.14 PAPMU: PAPMU will be strengthened considerably through external technical
assistance to undertake its responsibilities for overall administration of the project and the
NPAP. It will initially comprise 8 people under the overall supervision of the PAPMU
Director General and will increase in size as more funds are provided for the PAF. The
training of PAPMU staff as well as the development of the administrative procedures for
the NPAP will be undertaken within the proposed NPAP Institutional Strengthening
Project.
4.15 APAC Secretary: The APAC Secretary will initially comprise one full-time person
although the staffing will be reviewed as the project and the NPAP as a whole progress.
The APAC Secretary will be provided with adequate communication facilities to keep in
close contact with the PAPMU providing it with details of approved subprojects,



- 37-                          ANNEX 1
monitoring and evaluation indicators including those related to implementation of
subprojects and disbursement of funds.
4.16 Financing Management and Administration: The Government has agreed to
finance the operating costs of the PAPMU and the APAC and UPAC secretaries. To help
establish PAPMU and the APAC and UPAC Secretariats, UNDP would provide technical
assistance for consultants, office equipment, vehicle and initial operating costs.
B. PREPARATION FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Preparation for Implementation of the NPAP
4.17 Preparation of the PAF implementation began in Octo)er 1994 with the start of a
program of regional awareness raising/training workshops. The following represents the
proposed program of training to be funded under the UNDP NPAP Institutional
Strengthening Project.
*    Regional Awareness Raising/Training Workshops: An ongoing series of regional
awareness raising and training workshops designed to provide local government and
NGOs with an understanding of the NPAP. Each workshop covers 3 to 4 aimags
and the process is due to be completed by the beginning of May 1995.
*    NPAP Workshop: This Ulaanbaatar workshop, scheduled for May 1995, will be
attended by APAC Chairpersons, APAC Secretariat, officers of line ministries and
the PAPMU. It will reinforce participants understanding of the NPAP and in
particular its decentralized and participatory approaches and the policy issues
involved.
-    APAC  Secretariat Workshop: APAC  Secretariat officers will remain in
Ulaanbaatar after the NPAP workshop to raise their skills for promoting the NPAP
and supporting local implementing agencies.  Areas to be covered include
participatory appraisal and training methodologies.
*    NPAP Implementation Workshop: APAC Secretariat officers and officers of local
government implementing agencies will attend a workshop in June/July, 1995. It
will train participants in the basic implementation procedures of the NPAP including
accounting, monitoring and evaluation and administrative systems.
Preparation for the Implementation of the IDA Assisted Project
4.18 In addition to the preparation for the overall NPAP specific preparatory activities
will be undertaken for the IDA project.
*    Field testing PIMs: Relevant line ministries and PAPMU will finalize draft PIMs
for each component for field testing in May 1995. The manuals for the health,
education and income generation components will each be field tested in two sums



- 38 -                         ANNEX 1
in two aimags. The results should identify areas for improvements in the manuals
and in local government implementation and management capacity that need to be
addressed. They will also help evaluate the participatory approaches of the project
and will provide examples of the types of projects that will be identified by local
communities.
Project Inplementation Workshop: A project implementation workshop will be
held immediately after the NPAP Implementation Workshop in June/July 1995.
This workshop will train APAC Secretariat officers and officers of local
implementing agencies in the implementation procedures for the IDA assisted
projects through the PIMs.
C. COMPONENT IMPLEMlENTATION PLANS
Implementation of Components under the Local Development Fund
1995    1996      1997       1998    1999
SUBCOMPONENT                    1    1      2                     2    1
a. Income Generation
b. Rural Health Services
c. Basic Education
d. Support for the Disabled
4.19 Subprojects within the three components falling under the Local Development Fund
will be identified and formulated at the local level. Detailed guidelines for selection and
implementation of subprojects within these components will be provided in the relevant
PIM Guidelines. Project formulation will take place in two stages based around a 3-month
programming cycle.
4.20 i. Identification of resource allocation:
-    PAPMU would calculate total allocation of resources to each aimag according to the
guidelines in the PIM Guidelines and inform the APAC Secretariats of allocation
and disbursement schedule.
-    APACs would identify priority sums for allocation of resources within each 3 month
cycle and according to PIM Guidelines.
4.21 ii. Preparation and clearance of project proposals: Sums selected for allocation
of resources within each cycle will be informed of a range of resources for which they
should formulate projects. The following process will be followed:



- 39 -                           ANNEX 1
Bags in selected sums to identify priorities through participation of the community
SPACs/VGOs (as appropriate) to formulate a subproject based on the above
proposals and within the allocation and submit to APAC Secretariat
APAC secretariats ensure proposed subproject complies with PIM guidelines and
submits to APAC
APAC meeting approves subproject for funding
Implementation of the Institutional Support Component
4.24 The umbrella Institutional Strengthening Project is currently being formulated and
completion of formulation is scheduled for April 1995.
D. INDICATIVE SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year            1996           1997          1998         1999
(US$ Thousands)        1   |2         1 1   2       1  | 2       1  J  2
GOM Counterpart             50     40      40     70    70    70    60   130
Contribution
IDA - Income Generation    500    600    850    850   900   900   600   500
IDA - Basic Education      300    300    300    300   300   300   200
IDA - Rural Health Services  300    300    300    300   300   300   200
IDA - Support for the Disabled   50  50    50     50
IDA - Institutional Support  50     50
IDA TOTAL                  1200   1300   1500   1500   1500  1500  1000  500
GRAND TOTAL                1250   1340   1540   1570   1570  1570  1060  630
E. SPECIFIC ACTIONS TO ACHIEVE THE NtoJEcTls DEVELOPMENT
IMPACT OBJECrIvEs
4.25 Government commitment at central and local levels: There would be strong
Government commitment at both central and local level to the project and the NPAP as a
whole. In particular local government must be committed to following a participatory
approach and ensure that the project activities are identified by the community.
4.26 Recurrent expenditure: The Government would ensure adequate levels of financing
to cover recurrent costs to ensure the sustainability of project activities.
4.27 Awareness raising: Local government would fully support awareness raising
activities and ensure that the whole community understands the project and contributes to
identification of project activities.



- 40 -                         ANNEX 1
4.28 Training: Local Government officers would allocate time to training and ensure that
they have the skill to support community identification of projects and formulation of
adequate formulation of project proposals. The failure to obtain such skills will lead to
delays in project implementation.
F. PRoJEcT ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Provision for setting up Accounting and Financial Management System
4.29 The accounting and financial management system of the PAF will be established
under the proposed NPAP Institutional Strengthening project. Separate accounts will be
established and maintained for the project within the framework of the NPAP system. The
Statement of Expenditure format used in the pilot project schemes, suitably modified, will
be adopted.
Project Audit
4.30 Annual financial statements for the project will be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. In addition, the NPAP will be subject to internal auditing of the
programs financial operations on a semiannual basis.



- 41-                          ANNEX 2
POVERTY DATA
POPULATION
Popu lation
Aimags          Area      Households    People       No. of      No. of
('000 km                               Sums        Bags
Arhangay            55.0      28,997     102,716          19          96
Bayanhonger        116.0      20,655      85,301          20          98
BaYan-OlgiY         46.0      15,655      75,043          14          89
Bulgan              49.0      14,856      60,999          16          68
Domod              123.5      17,335      83,722          14          80
Domo-Gobi          111.0      11,478      47,773          14          60
Dund-Gobi           78.0      11,884      51,291          16          89
Dzavhan             82.0      22,404     101,697          24         113
Gobi-Altay         142.0      15,220      71,528          18          87
Hentiy              82.0      18,276      73,096          20          92
Hovd                76.0      18,475      87,171          17          84
Hovsgol            101.0      28,352     116,867          24         116
Omno-Gobi          165.0      11,168      45,014          15          54
Ovorhangay          63.0      28,160     109,387          19         113
Selenge             42.8      20,744      90,690          17          58
Sukhbaatar          82.0      12,141      56,084          13          79
ToV                 81.0      24,993     108,210          27         129
Uvs                 69.0      22,241      98,197          20          99
Darhan               0.2      21,754      91,303           4          24
Gobi-Sumbur            -       2,701      11,289           3          10
Orhon                  -      14,358      62,868           2          16
Ulaanbaatar          2.0    130,623      588,000          12         119
Totals                   512,470   2,218,246         348       1,773



- 42 -                       ANNEX 2
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
Aimags        Aimag Ctr      %   Sum Ctr     %    Nomads         %
Arhangay         23,927   23.29   25,174   24.51    53,615   52.20
Bayanhonger      22,600   26.49    18,225   21.37    44,476   52.14
Bayan-Olgiy      19,835   26.43    18,935   25.23    36,273   48.34
Bulgan           15,520   25.44    21,399   35.08    24,080   39.48
Dornod           45,246   54.04    20,439   24.41    18,037   21.54
Dorno-Gobi       15,712   32.89    10,375   21.72    21,686   45.39
Dund-Gobi        12,754   24.87    12,166   23.72    26,371    51.41
Dzavhan          23,692   23.30    31,613   31.09    58,390   57.42
Gobi-Altay       20,831   29.12    17,832   24.93    32,865   45.95
Hentiy           24,137   33.02   22,824   31.22    26,135    35.75
Hovd             27,523   31.57   24,295   27.87    35,353    40.56
Hovsgol          33,143   28.36   27,660   23.67    56,064   47.97
Omno-Gobi        15,484   34.40    9,513   21.13    20,017   44.47
Ovorhangay       20,360   18.61    30,637   28.01    58,390   53.38
Selenge          45,177   49.81    34,688   38.25    10,825    11.94
Sukhbaatar       13,345   23.79    15,996   28.52   26,743   47.68
Tov              19,823   18.32   49,693   45.92   38,694   35.76
Uvs              27,284   27.78   28,921   29.45   41,992   42.76
Darhan           91,303   100.00       0    0.00         0    0.00
Gobi-Sumbur       9,438   83.60        0    0.00     1,851    16.40
Orhon            62,868   100.00       0    0.00         0    0.00
Ulaanbaatar     588,000  100.00        0    0.00         0    0.00
Totals     1,178,002     53  420,385       18  631,857       28



- 43 -                                ANNEX 2
POVERTY PROFILE
Population Below   Of which     % of Airnag Pop.    % Aimag     % Absolute Poor
Poverty Line    Absolute Poor    Below Poverty    Absolute Poor  Total Pop.
Line           Pop.      ___
Aimags       Hsehld  People  Hsehld  People  Hsehld  People  Hsehld  People  Hsehld  People
Arhangay      15,001   44,280  3,510   10,374   51.73   43.11   12.10   10.10   10.89    7.55
Bayanhonger   7,695   40,274  1,800    9,434   37.25   47.21    8.71   11.06    5.58    6.86
Bayan-Olgiy    5,797   28,331  1,356    6,639   37.03   37.75    8.66    8.85  4.21    4.83
Bulgan        4,915   21,178  1,150   4,964   33.08   34.72    7.74    8.14    3.57    3.61
Domod         7,034   26,598  1,649    6,233   40.58   31.77    9.51    7.44    5.11    4.54
Domo-Gobi    1,099    3,208    257      556    9.57    6.72    2.24    1.16    0.80    0.40
Dund-Gobi     4,158   11,548    973    2,732   34.99   22.51    8.19    5.33   3.02    1.99
Dzavhan       6,366   39,615  1,489    9,279   28.41   38.95    6.65    9.12    4.62    6.75
Gobi-Altay    3,259   22,937    762   5,377   21.41   32.07    5.01    7.52    2.36    3.91
Hentiy        4,642   20,197  1,086   4,736   25.40   27.63    5.94    6.48    3.37    3.45
Hovd          8,704   32,514  2,036    7,618   47.11   37.30   11.02    8.74    6.31    5.54
Hovsgol       7,971   24,271  1,865    5,680   28.11   20.77    6.58    4.86   5.78    4.13
Omno-Gobi     4,589   26,148  1,073   6,128   41.09   58.09    9.61   13.61    3.33    4.46
Ovorhangay    12,000   42,155  2,808    9,874   42.61   38.54    9.97    9.03  8.71    7.19
Selenge       2,948   15,625    689    3,666   14.21   17.23    3.32    4.04    2.14    2.67
Sukhbaatar    3,816   24,159    892   5,663   31.43   43.08    7.35   10.10    2.77    4.12
Tov           6,250   29,894  1,462    6,995   25.01   27.63    5.85    6.46    4.53    5.09
Uvs           7,549   22,299  1,766   5,227   33.94   22.71    7.94    5.32    5.48    3.80
Darhan        5,894  . 25,198  1,379   5,896   27.09   27.60    6.34    6.45   4.28    4.29
Gobi-Sumbur     677   2,589    158      615   25.06   22.93    5.85    5.45    0.49    0.45
Orhon           740   3,981    173      951    5.15    6.33    1.20    1.51    0.54    0.69
Ulaanbaatar    16,722   80,283  3,912   18,786   12.80   13.65    2.99    3.19    12.13   13.67
Totals   137,826  587,282 32,245  137,423     27      26       6      6  100.00  100.00



-44 -                                           ANNEX 3
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
INDICATIVE FINANCING PLAN
Out of which:
External Resources
Type   Activities                              Total Cost    Domestic   Tug million   S'000   Funding  Source
(Tug million)   Resources                          status
I (Tug million)                     (S'000)La
COMPONENT I
p    Strengthen and improve the capacity of          100             -         100      250       485  UNDP/
units involved in the Poverty Alleviation                                                          IDA
Program                                                                                     4000 AsDB_
COMPONENT 2
Increase employment and support rural                10,144        2,844         7,300   18,250
development (subtotal)
PP    a. Establish pilot local enterprise            256             -          256      640
promotion centers
EPF   b. Develop small- and medium-size             5,742        2,400         3,342    8,356    5,000* AsDB
enterprises
LDF   c. Establish public works programs            2,042           344        1,698    4,244              IDA
LDF   d. Small capital projects for local            1,164                     1,164    2,919
infrastructure
EPF   e. Increase the employment of                   940           100          840    2,100             IDA
vulnerable groups
COMPONENT 3
Improve primary health care and sticngthen health       483           26          457    1,142
services (subtotal)
P    a. Prepare health volunteers                    120             -         120      300              IDA
SAF   b. Fund health insurance for the                 19            19
|  unemployed poor                                                                     l          l
SAF   c. Provide the poor with drugs and                7             7
I  vitamins                                                                            l
P/LDF   d. Material support to sum hospitals           337             -          337      842             IDA
Secure the normal functioning of sum secondary        9,423         6,308        3,115    7,788
schools (subtotal)                                                                             l         l
P/LDF  a. Secure the normal functioning of           6,225         4,625        1,600    4,000              IDA
local boarding schools                                                             l_l
PP    b. Education of children who have              298           183          115      288              IDA
dropped out of school                                                        l_l
SAFP| c Vocational training of the children         2,900         1,500        1,400    3,5001
_____I  poor families                                                                 I                   I



- 45 -                                         ANNEX 3
Out of which:
Extemal Resources
Type   Activities                            Total Cost    Domestic   Tug million   S'000   Funding  Source
(Tug million)   Resources                        datus
(Tug million)    I_(S'000)La
COMPONENT 4
WDF   Support the income-generation activities     2,000                     2,000   5,000
of women. Expand development centers
and increase capacity
COMPONENT 5
PP   |Strengthenthemarketstructurein rural J      4,0001       2,0001       2,000L 5I0001
COMPONENT 6
Expand the system of social protection (subtotal)   7,292        5,593        1,699   4,248
P/SAF  a. Development of the social assistance      3,325        2,625         700    1,750
_ _ _ _ system_ _ _ _ _ _
SAF   b. Assist the homeless                        300                       300      500
P/SAP  c. Protect poor children                     1,599        1,000         599    1,498
PP    d. Special education of disabled children     100            -          100     250
SDF   e. Increase the allowances of pensioners     1,968        1,968
not covered by the new social
insurance law
TOTAL                  33,443        16,772      16,671  41,6781
Key:
EPF  = Employment Promotion Fund      P    = Project
LDF = Local Development Fund           PP   = Pilot Project
SAF  = Social Assistance Fund          SDF  = Special Domestic Financing
VDF = Women's Development Fund
/a The funding status indicates an estimate of resources for the NPAP committed or indicated after June 1994. (*) indicates asistance
in the pipcline. GOM funding is for 1995.
Note: The exchange rate used is SI = Tug 400.
Source: Poverty Alleviation Program, GOM - June 1994.



- 46 -                          ANNEX 4
DRAFT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
PART I: INTRODUCTION
A. OVERVIEW OF LDF
The Local Development Fund (LDF) is one of the four subfunds of the Poverty Alleviation
Fund (PAF) and forms part of the Government of Mongolia Poverty Alleviation Program.
It has been designed to provide financial resources to poverty-related projects that are
identified, formulated, implemented and supervised at the local (sumlkhoroo) level. These
projects are appraised and approved by the Aimag or Ulaanbaatar District Poverty
Alleviation Councils. The LDF has the following key features which are described in
more detail in the General Guidelines of the PIM:
*     Activity Areas:  The LDF will provide resources to finance projects within
thematic Activity Areas described in Section C of this introduction.
*     Type Projects: Each Activity Area contains a menu of types of project (the Type
Projects) from which the community or target group can choose. The Type
Projects for each Activity Area can be found in the Activity Area Guidelines.
*     Participatory Project Identification: Priority projects are identified by the whole
community or by specific target groups such as the very poor (depending on the
Activity Area) at the sum and bag (districtlkhoroo) level. (Section B. 1 of the
General Guidelines)
*     Three-month Programming Cycle:  The LDF will feature a three-month
programming cycle covering the period from submission of project proposals from
the SPACs to the start of project implementation.
*     Decentralized Resource Allocation: The resources from the central LDF will be
allocated to each aimag and Ulaanbaatar district according to strict criteria.
Allocation of resources from the Aimag/UB District LDF to priority Type Projects
takes place at the aimag/district level based on the local priorities identified as
above. (Section A of the General Guidelines)



-47 -                          ANNEX 4
*     Decentralized Implementation: Implementation of projects in each Activity Area
will be the responsibility of SPACs and VGOs as appropriate. Local government,
NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs) and the community will facilitate
project implementation. (Section B.7 of the General Guidelines)
*     Community Supervision: In addition to a supervisor designated by the SPAC each
project will be supervised by members of the community selected by the
community. (Section B.9 of the General Guidelines)
B. THE LDF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
To assist local government and the community with the implementation of the projects
financed by the LDF a Project Implementation Manual (PIIA) has been developed. In
addition to this introduction, the PIM consists of three other parts, namely;
*     Part I - General Guidelines: These are general guidelines for implementing the
projects within the LDF and include details of the LDF Activity Areas, guidelines
for resource allocation within the LDF and details of the LDF project cycle.
*     Part m  - Forms: This section consists of the forms to be used by the various
participants in the LDF Project Cycle. (Part III not presented here.)
*     Part IV - Activity Area Guidelines: In addition to the General Guidelines there
are specific guidelines for each Activity Area of the LDF.
The LDF PIM would be approved by the National Poverty Alleviation Committee
(Government of Mongolia Resolution No. --).  The National Poverty Alleviation
Committee would have the authority to revise the LDF PIM following proposals by the
Poverty Alleviation Program Management Unit. Annexes of the General Guidelines (not
presented here) outline the responsibilities of the relevant institutions at the central and
local level.
C. ACTIVITY AREAS
As of April 1995 the following five Activity Areas have been developed:
*     Basic Education: This Activity Area is aimed at substantially reducing the dropout
and nonenrollment rates. Assistance should be seen in an emergency situation as
a bridging arrangement to meet certain costs, both capital and recurrent
expenditures. The projects would provide critical inputs needed to maintain and
restore the level and equity of basic education delivery.
e     Rural Health Services: This Activity Area would provide critical inputs needed to
maintain and restore the ability of rural health services (sum, bag and community
levels) to provide equitable access to primary health care. It would finance priority
projects aimed at improving general health service delivery.



- 48 -                         ANNEX 4
*     VGO Income Generation:  This Activity Area aims at sustainable income
generation based on formation of Vulnerable Group Organizations (VGOs)
comprising members of poor and very poor households. These organizations are
private legal entities established under Mongolian law. The Activity Area aims to
empower VGOs to identify productive activities and provide financial resources for
their implementation.
*     Public Works: This Activity Area would create employment opportunities for
members of very poor households through community-based public works projects
aimed at infrastructure maintenance and environmental protection.
*     Support to Disabled: This Activity Area addresses the specific issues of the
disabled in Mongolia. It will finance essential inputs to provide improved education
facilities for disabled children and employment opportunities for disabled adults.
PART II: GENERAL GUIDELINES
A. RESOURCE ALLOCATION
Resources from the LDF and its Activity Areas will be allocated to each aimag and
Ulaanbaatar according to strict criteria described below. PAPMU will make a proposal
according to these guidelines and submit it to the NPAC for approval.
Allocation to Aimag/Ulaanbaatar LDF: Resources will be allocated from the National
LDF to the Aimag LDF based on the proportion of national population in the aimag.
Contributions to the Aimag LDF can also be made from the aimag budget and the private
sector. The Allocation from Central to Aimag LDF Form will be used to inform aimags
of their allocation of the LDF for each programming cycle.
Direct Allocation to Activity Area: External resources may be directly allocated to the
Aimag Activity Area according to the Activity Area Guidelines. The Direct Allocation
from Center to Aimag Activity Area Form will be used to inform the aimag of the direct
allocation to each Aimag LDF Activity Area in each programming cycle.
Allocation from Aimag LDF to Activity Area Type Projects: The APAC can allocate
resources to any Type Project according to the local demands and priorities and within the
approval guidelines outlined below.
B. OVERVIEW OF THE LDF PROJECT CYCLE
The general principles of the components of the LDF project cycle are outlined below.
Any specific variations from these general principles will be given in the Activity Area
Guidelines.



- 49 -                         ANNEX 4
1. Identification:
Projects will be identified by a specific target group at the community level or by the
community as a whole. The target group for each Activity Area will be identified in the
relevant Activity Area Guidelines. Meeting of the target group will take place at the bag
level and the meetings will be facilitated by a government or nongovernment officer
designated by the SPAC. At the meeting the priority Type Projects for each Activity Area
should be identified by the target group and the Community Proposal Form completed and
signed by the bag governor. This form should be submitted to the SPAC before the start
of programming cycle.
2. Formulation:
The following forms together with the Community Proposal Forms should be made into
one package for each Activity Area in each sum. The package should be submitted to the
APAC Secretary according to the programming cycle.
Sum Project Request Form: The Sum Project Request Form will be completed by the
SPAC with the assistance of the beneficiaries (for example the sum hospital, bag
community, NGO or a Vulnerable Group Organization). The form must be signed by the
SPAC Chairperson.
Sum Project Priority Form: Based on the priorities of the bag the SPAC will place the
Type Project in each Activity Area in order of priority using the Sum Priority Project
Form. The form must be signed by the SPAC Chairperson.
Appraisal and Approval Form: The SPAC should complete this form based on the
approval criteria in the Activity Area Guidelines for each Type Project. It should be
signed by the SPAC Chairperson.
3. Appraisal:
All project proposals will first be submitted to the APAC Secretary who will ensure that
they conform to Activity Area and Type Project appraisal criteria. The APAC Secretary
will use the Appraisal and Approval Form for each Type Project using the appraisal
criteria in the Activity Area Guidelines.
*     Project Conforms: If the project conforms to the appraisal criteria, the APAC
Secretary will sign the Project Appraisal and Approval Form and pass the project
to the APAC for approval.
*     Project Rejected: If the project fails to conform to appraisal criteria, the APAC
Secretary will not sign the Project Appraisal and Approval Form but return the
Project Request Form to the sum. The returned Project Request Form must be
attached to a Project Rejection Form to be completed by the APAC Secretary. The



- 50 -                         ANNEX 4
APAC Secretary should complete the Summary of Rejected Projects Form and
submit it to PAPMU.
4. Approval
The APAC Secretary will submit the projects to the APAC who will base approval on four
criteria (a) the project conforms to all appraisal criteria (b) the project can be financed by
the financial resources available, (c) the project will be able to be completed within the
agreed timeframe, and (d) the SPAC requesting the project has provided all necessary
receipts for ongoing projects in previous cycles. The APAC can use the following
financial resources to finance projects:
*     Priority projects fimanced from direct allocations to Aimag Activity Area: The
Aimag Allocation to Sum Form should be completed by the APAC secretary using
specific criteria for each Activity Area. The APAC should approve priority
projects that can be financed within the allocation for the swn.
Using the Sum Reallocation Forms the APAC will calculate the total remaining
funds after the priority projects have been approved. The APAC should then
prioritize those projects that have not been approved according to reallocation
criteria set down in the Activity Area Guidelines. The priority projects that can be
financed by the remaining resources should be approved. At the end of this process
any remaining funds should be carried forward to the next cycle.
Priority project financed by Aimag LDF: The APAC can use resources allocated
to the Aimag LDF to finance priority projects not financed by direct allocations to
Activity Areas.
*     Priority projects financed by other sources: Any remaining projects can be
financed from other sources including the ainag budget. The aimag government
is encouraged to use its resources within the LDF so that they can be monitored,
supervised and implemented along with projects financed directly by the LDF.
5. Disbursement of Funds
Once the project approval process is finalized, the APAC Secretary will complete the
Disbursement and Procurement Request and submit the form to PAPMU. The Secretary
must identify all those goods to be procured by PAPMU and include this information in
the form. Procurement responsibilities for each Type Project can be found in the Activity
Area Guidelines.
For projects to be completed within the Programming Cycle (three months) PAPMU will
disburse 100 percent of the project amount (less the cost of the goods PAPMU will
procure) to the APAC LDF Account in each Aimag. For projects to be implemented
within two Programming Cycles PAPMU will disburse 50 percent of this amount. The



- 51-                          ANNEX 4
APAC Secretary and the APAC Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson will be the signatories
for this account.
The APAC will distribute 100 percent to the SPACs. The SPACs will keep project funds
in an SPAC LDF account with the SPAC Chairperson and one of two SPAC members as
signatories for the account. The SPAC will disburse initially 60 percent of the total
amount required for each project once the project is approved.
Once most of the first disbursement has been spent the remaining 40 percent of the total
project cost will be paid to the project. The second disbursement will only take place once
the first disbursement has been accounted for using the SPAC Documentation Form (Form
14). The documentation, including all receipts for the purchase of inputs, must be
submitted to the APAC Secretary within the time indicated in the Programming Cycle.
Sums not providing receipts for inputs for any project will receive no further funds from
the LDF.
6. Procurement for IDA-Assisted Subprojects:
*    The SPACs with beneficiary involvement would be responsible for all direct
contracting and national shopping (except for vehicles and equipment). PAPMU
would make arrangements for other national shopping and all international
shopping. Direct contracting would involve negotiations with a single-source
contractor while national shopping would be based on obtaining price quotations
from three contractors/suppliers. For international shopping, three quotations in
two different countries would be obtained.
For subproject works estimated to cost less than $4,000, direct contracting by the
SPACs with beneficiary involvement would be adopted.
*     For other subproject works estimated to cost less than $10,000 and more than
$4,000, SPACs would follow national shopping procedures.
*     For subproject goods, with an average estimated cost of less than $50,000, national
shopping procedures would be applied.
*     International shopping procedures would be adopted for subproject goods (vehicles,
parts and equipment) with contract values between $50,000 and $200,000.
*     In each case of national and international shopping, contracts would be awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers.
All procurement of subproject goods would be made in accordance with the World
Bank's procurement guidelines of January 1995.



- 52 -                         ANNEX 4
7. Implementation:
Projects will be implemented by the SPAC or a VGO as appropriate. For each project
implemented by a VGO there will be a contract which will include provisions imposing this
PIM on the organization.
8. Monitoring:
All projects will be monitored to ensure that they achieve their defined objectives within
a defined timeframe and budget. Monitoring will take place at T levels.
*     SPAC: The SPAC will monitor the input and process indicators for each project
and submit them to PAPMU on a quarterly basis. Input and process indicators for
each Activity Area can be found in the relevant Activity Area Guidelines.
*     PAPMU: PAPMU will monitor the delivery of the inputs it procures and the
disbursement of funds to each Aimag and each project. In addition it will produce
a quarterly report for the NPAC and donors based on the indicators provided by the
APACs.
9. Supervision:
In addition to monitoring by the project management the implementation of projects
financed by the LDF and the management of the LDF will be supervised at four levels.
*     Community Supervisors: Each project will be supervised by three members of
the community not directly involved with project implementation.  These
community supervisors will be selected by the community.  During the
implementation of the project the three community supervisors must visit the project
at least once a week and must immediately inform the SPAC if they find problems
they cannot resolve themselves.
*     APAC: The APAC should attempt to arrange a supervision visit to all sums during
one year. The sums will be selected according to the number of projects being
implemented. The APAC should use the Selection of Projects to Supervise form
(Annex 16) to identify the sums to be visited during each quarter.
*     PAPMU:  Officers of PAPMU  and its consultants will supervise project
implementation and the management of the LDF at the Aimag and sum levels on
behalf of the NPAC.
*     Donors: Representatives of donors contributing to the LDF will supervise project
implementation and the overall management of the LDF at regular intervals.



- 53 -                         ANNEX 4
10. Impact Evaluation
The impact of the LDF will be evaluated on two levels:
*     Activity Area impact evaluation: The impact of each LDF Activity Area will be
evaluated on an annual basis using the impact evaluation indicators collected by the
aimag and swn. The impact evaluation indicators for each Activity Area can be
found in the relevant Activity Area Guidelines.
*     Local Development Fund impact evaluation:  The 1995 Living Standard
Measurement Survey undertaken by the State Statistical Office will be used for
baseline indicators and for use in future impact evaluations of the fund as a whole.



- 54 -              ANNEX 4
PART IV
ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
A. VGO INCOME GENERATION
B. PUBLIC WORKS
C. BASIC EDUCATION
D. RURAL HEALTH SERVICES



-55-                           ANNEX 4
A. VGO INCOME GENERATION
ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
1.  Description: The Activity Area would entail investments in establishing viable
community-based Vulnerable Group Organizations (VGO) with a view to providing
employment and income generating opportunities to the unemployed and very poor
members of the community.
*    Eligibility: All sums and Ulaanbaatar districts are eligible for receiving project
finance under this Activity Area
*    Target Group: The target group for identifying priority projects is the group of
very poor persons in the community
2. Type Projects:
*    Agricultural activities:  Small scale vegetable and fruit farming, particularly
potatoes. Production of compost from animal and domestic refuse for use as
fertilizer. Maintaining small livestock herds or poultry stock. Production of hay
and silage for livestock feed.
*    SNatural resource exploitation and conservation: Open pit mining of coal and
other minerals. Exploitation of salt from lake deposits for human and animal
consumption. Collection of wild-growing mushrooms, fruits, nuts and berries and
their preservation. Collection of deadwood from the forest and pasture refuse for
use as fuel.
*.   Community Services: Animal drawn transport service for domestic water supply
and garbage collection. Other transport services including moving nomadic herder's
goods. Repair and maintenance services for buildings, roads and other services.
*    Handicrafts and food products: Wool, cashmere, leather and other animal derived
products, production of garments, footwear, wood and iron articles (for example ger
furniture, ger wood, ger covers, saddles, carts and other items). Bakery and dairy
products and other everyday food items in demand for sale in the local market (for
example milk, cream, curds, airag, meat and other products).
Specific guidelines for each type project are detailed in the annex of these Activity Area
Guidelines. Additional inputs identified by communities but not eligible at the present time
may be included in the PIM at a later date. Community should inform the SPAC and
APAC of potential inputs that could be included in the above list.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 4
3. Resource Allocation Criteria
a. Direct Allocation to Aimag Activity Area: Direct allocations from the center to the
Aimag VGO Income Generation Activity Area should be based on proportion of the
national total number of very poor located in the aimag. The Direct Allocation To Aimag
Activity Form should be used to inform the aimag of the size of the allocation.
b. Allocation from Aimag to Sums: From the direct allocation to the VGO Income
Generation Activity Area the APAC can allocate resources to the sum according to the
proportion of the total number of very poor in the aimag located in the sum. The APAC
should use the Allocation to Sum Form.
4. Activity Area Impact Evaluation Criteria
Number of VGOs created
Jobs created by gender (and if FHH) and level of poverty
Cost per job created
Average monthly income of VGO
Total number of persons benefiting from the income earned by the VGO members.
5. Special Guidelines for Vulnerable Group Organizations
Scope: Typically, a bag would be expected to form a VGO comprising 20 to 25 members,
organized into 2 to 3 subgroups. On the average, an aimag would have 16 sums, with 5
bags in each sum. The project would thus lead to the formation of about 1700 VGOs
spread over some 360 sums in all the 21 aimags of the country.
Eligibility: The following criteria will be used for selection of community members who
would be eligible to participate in the project assisted income generation program:
*    Only persons of working-age belonging to the 'very poor' group would be eligible
for membership of the VGOs. Exceptions to this may be made in cases where the
eligible members do not include individuals endowed with the requisite leadership
and entrepreneurial qualities. Equal opportunity would be given to both male and
female candidates qualifying for project assistance.
*    In selecting the project beneficiaries, priority would be given to:
(1) members of female-headed households with the ability to work, and
(2) disabled persons who are capable of participating in appropriate activities
of the income generating schemes, such as accounting and other work suited
to the various types of disabilities.
Community participation: The SPAC, assisted by NGOs (where available), will hold bag
level meetings inviting all members of the community with particular emphasis on



- 57 -                         ANNEX 4
participation of poor. The meetings would serve to create awareness of the project
objectives and implementation methodology, the scope of project assistance available for
undertaking income generation activities and the need for group formation to benefit from
the project assistance.
The community members would be invited to identify the priority needs for maintenance/
improvement of the public works and explain the project assistance available for
undertaking social forestry programs for environmental protection of the sum centers,
which will form the basis of public works subprojects and identifying the members of the
target group willing to be organized and able to be engaged at implementing such schemes.
Group Formation: The bag level meetings will also be used as the fora for identifying
the target group members who would be eligible for joining VGOs for undertaking
Productive Activities Schemes. The Group would normally be composed of a number of
Subgroups, each assembled on the basis of common vocational and social interests and
represented by a leader chosen by the subgroup members for his education or vocational
training and entrepreneurial traits.
Group Management: The subgroup leaders would comprise the VGO Management
Committee, who would elect amongst themselves a Group Leader and an
Accountant/Secretary. This arrangement would serve as a built-in mechanism for the
supervision of one subgroup activity by the other subgroups for reasons of mutual interest
in the Group's total resources. A Bank Account will be opened for the VGO, with the
VGO Leader and the Accountant as cosignatories for operating the account.
6. Special Operational Guidelines:
The project resources would made available to the VGO by the SPAC in the form of a
grant, which would be used as a revolving fund for undertaking income generation
activities.
a.  All receipts of funds from the project resources and sale proceeds of the
production achieved by the income generating scheme will be deposited in
full into the VGO account.
b.  Expenditure by a subgroup can be incurred only against authorization by the
VGO Management Committee, for which a cheque will be issued by the
Group Leader/Accountant.
c.  Wage rates to be paid to its members would be decided by the VGO itself.
Wherever possible, compensation would be paid on piecework basis at unit
rates.
d.  Where payment on daily, weekly or monthly wage rates is unavoidable, the
rates will generally be set below the prevailing market wage rates at a level
sufficient to cover subsistence needs of the workers. In such cases, the



- 58 -                         ANNEX 4
subgroup leader would be responsible to ensure that the value of production
exceeds the wage bill by a sufficient margin.
e.  After finishing the start-up project the amount of money equal to the input
(including inflation) may be used for the next project or returned for use by
another VGO. Decisions on this matter will be made by the APAC based on
the SPAC proposal. The repayment terms should be included in the contract
between the APAC and the implementing agency of the start-up project.
f.   The VGO will repay according to the following schedule:
First year          0
Second year         20% of amount advanced
Third year          30% of amount advanced
Fourth year         50% of amount advanced
g.  Each subgroup will be responsible for rendering an account of the
expenditure incurred and revenues earned from sale proceeds of the produce.
The account, duly supported by vouchers, would be submitted by the
subgroup to the VGO Management Committee.
h.  Whenever a subgroup is showing less than expected profits or is running into
financial loss, the Management Committee will jointly examine the causes
and take corrective measures in consultation with the SPAC.
7. Remedial Measures
The SPAC would be represented by an observer at the monthly VGO meetings and would
coordinate VGO activities through quarterly meeting of VGO Leaders. In case of evidence
of mismanagement or poor performance in terms of expected rate of growth of the VGO
resources, the SPAC may suggest appropriate measures to improve VGO performance. In
case of continued poor performance, the SPAC may recommend to APAC forfeiture of the
defaulting VGO resources and propose reallocation to another VGO.



-59 -                            ANNEX 4
ANNEX 1A OF VGO INCOME GENERATION ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
Agricultural Activities
1. Description: The following inputs will be financed under this type project:
- Stock ( animals, or seeds)
-   Tools
-    Salaries
2. SPAC Formulation Guidelines
-    VGO must "approve"
-    Market for product
3. Input cost
-    Tools
4. Appraisal Criteria: The following appraisal criteria will be used by the APAC
Secretary. The beneficiaries are the workers on the project and the cost per beneficiary
should be an average for one month.
A. GENERAL APPRAISAL                 NUM[BER/COST         APPRAISAL
CRITERIA
7. Number of Beneficiaries
Male
Female
8. Cost per Beneficiary                 _
B. SPECIFIC APPRAISAL CRITERIA   NUMBER    COST   APPRAISAL
TYPE PROJECT
9. Labor costs as a proportion of total                            > 50%
project cost
10.
11.
12.



- 60 -                         ANNEX 4
B. PUBLIC WORKS
ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
1.  Description: This Activity Area would create employment opportunities through
community-based programs of public works aimed at infrastructure maintenance and
environmental protection. The component would not only provide employment to the very
poor but would provide an opportunity to the community to select priority activities for
benefitting the community as a whole.
Eligibility: All sums and Ulaanbaatar districts are eligible for receiving project
finance under this Activity Area
*     Target Group: All members of community may participate in identifying the
priority public works and the absolute poor would be employed
2.  Type Projects: The Type Projects that can be financed under the Public Works
Activity Area are as follows
*.    Feeder Roads: Maintenance works for rehabilitation and/or preservation of feeder
roads serving agricultural, commercial or tourism needs.
Renovation of Buildings for Public Use: Deferred maintenance community center
buildings including improved insulation for energy conservation.
Water Supply System: Renovating the system for capturing, supplying and
distributing water for the community.
*.    Sanitation System: Improvement of sanitation system in the community.
"Social forestry": Programs for planting fast-growing trees for production of fuel,
fodder and construction material.
*0    Garbage collection and disposal facilities: Collection, transport and disposal of
garbage for the community in an environmentally friendly manner.
*0   FFuel collection: Collection of dead wood and dung to be used in the stoves being
installed for heating of public buildings.
Specific guidelines for each type project are detailed in the annex of these Activity Area
Guidelines. Additional inputs identified by communities but not eligible at the present time
may be included in the PIM at a later date. Community should inform the SPAC and
APAC of potential inputs that could be included in the above list.



- 61-                          ANNEX 4
3. Resource Allocation Criteria
a. Direct Allocation to Aimag Activity Area: Direct allocations from the center to the
Aimag Public Works Activity Area should be in proportion to the total number of very
poor located in the aimag. The Direct Allocation To Aimag Activity Form should be used
to inform the aimag of the size of the allocation.
b. Allocation from Aimag to Sums: From the direct allocation to the Public Works
Activity Area the APAC can allocate resources to the sum according to the proportion of
the number of Poor in the aimag located in the sum. The APAC should use the Allocation
to Sum Form.
4. Activity Area Impact Evaluation Indicators
The number of jobs created by gender and level of poverty
Cost per job created
5. Special Approval Arrangements
The SPAC must attach a full description of each project to the Project Request Form it will
submit to the APAC Secretary. In particular, this will outline the economic and/or social
benefits that the proposed project will produce. The APAC Secretary will collaborate with
the Aimag Government during appraisal of the proposed project to ensure that it fits in
with sectoral policies and priorities.
In addition, the SPAC must provide evidence that the project is sustainable by providing
for each public works proposal an estimate of recurrent costs and assurances that these will
be covered.
6. Special Implementation Arrangements
The SPAC will identify a suitable contractor, either an individual or a private company,
that will assist with the technical formulation of the project and manage the project during
implementation. Contractors will compete for the work and will be paid according to
market rates for such work.
The workers provided employment would be motivated to form a Workers Group and
make group saving from part of the wages earned. This will enable them to undertake
further income-generation activities on completion of the Public Works project. In the
event of successful formation of a VGO by the Workers Group and consolidation of group
savings, the new VGO would be given favorable consideration for further project
assistance.



- 62 -                             ANNEX 4
ANNEX 1A OF THE PUBLIC WORKS ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
FEEDER ROADS
1. Description: The following inputs can be financed for this type project
-    labor
-    local materials
-    sets of tools
2. SPAC Formulation Guidelines
-    More than 60 percent of the project cost must be designated to pay jobs
created
-    Payment of jobs must be below the market rates
-    The project must have a real economic impact in the community
3.   Appraisal Criteria:  The following appraisal criteria will be used by the APAC
Secretary. The beneficiaries are the workers on the project and the cost per beneficiary
should be an average for one month.
A. GENERAL APPRAISAL CRITERIA               NUMBER/COST         APPRAISAL
7. Number of Beneficiaries
Male
Female
8. Cost per Beneficiary
B. SPECIFIC APPRAISAL CRITERIA FOR            NUAlBER    COST  | APPRAISAL
TYPE PROJECT
9. Cost of labor as a proportion of total project cost                     > 50%
10. Cost per Km of road                                                   < Tg X
11. Cost per M2 of small bridge                                           < TgX
12. Consistent with aimag sectoral priorities                             Yes/No
13. Maintenance cost estimates attached                                   Yes/No
14. Evidence that maintenance costs will be covered                       Yes/No



- 63 -                          ANNEX 4
C. BASIC EDUCATION
ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
1. Description: The education component is aimed at substantially reducing the dropout
and nonenrollment rates within three years. Assistance should be seen in an emergency
situation as a bridging arrangement to meet certain costs, both capital and recurrent
expenditures. The project would provide critical inputs needed to maintain and restore the
level and equity of basic education delivery.
*     Eligibility: Only sums and bags outside the aimag center are eligible for receiving
project finance under this Activity Area
*     Target Group: The whole community will participate in identifying priority
subprojects
2. Type projects: Six types of projects that can be financed under the Basic Education
Activity Area:
*     Renovation of Sum Schools: Building repairs, school equipment, heating of school
and dormitory and teaching materials.
a     Bag Ger Schools for Out-of-School Children: A standard package of ger, ger
furniture, teaching materials and basic teaching equipment
*     Establishment of Sum School Farms: Livestock, inputs for growing vegetables
and basic farming equipment
*     Mobile Teachers: Animals for transport and basic portable teaching equipment
*     Preparation of Herder Children: Supporting "home education" of herders
children by parents to prepare them for basic education
*     Electric Power for Sum Schools and Boarding Houses: Installation of solar-
powered electricity systems in schools and boarding houses
Specific guidelines for each type project are detailed in the annex of these Activity Area
Guidelines. Additional inputs identified by communities but not eligible at the present time
may be included in the PIM at a later date. Community should inform the SPAC and
APAC of potential inputs that could be included in the above list.
3. Resource Allocation
(a)   Direct Allocation to Aimag Activity Area: Direct allocations from the
center to the Aimag Basic Education Activity Area should be based on the



- 64 -                         ANNEX 4
number of out-of-school children in the aimag as a proportion of the
national total. The Direct Allocation to Aimag Activity Area Form should
be used to inform the aimag of the size of the allocation.
(b)   Allocation from Aimag to Sums: From the direct allocation to the Basic
Education Activity Area the APAC can allocate resources to sums according
to the number of dropout and nonenrolled children in the sum as a
proportion of the total number in the aimag. The APAC should use the
Allocation to Sum Form.
4. Activity Area Impact Evaluation Criteria
Number of out of school children in the sum, by
Gender
Poverty
Age



- 65 -                          ANNEX 4
ANNEX 1A OF THE BASIC EDUCATION ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELIES
RENOVATION OF RURAL SCHOOLS
1. Description: This type of project would provide the following inputs
*     Building repairs: repairs to the school and dormitory buildings including improved
insulation
*     School equipment:   Basic equipment for the school including furniture,
blackboards, etc.
*     Heating of school and dormitory: Installation of alternative cost effective heating
systems
*     Teaching materials: A standard package of teaching materials
2. SPAC Formulation Guidelines:
-     The sum needs to show that the new heating system will either increase the
reliability of heating or reduce the cost compared to the current system. Sums
schools should be able to show that they attempt to conserve heat by not heating
areas that are not in use and by adequate insulation.
*     IThe SPAC should examine the possibility of renovating empty buildings for use as
schools at the bag level if appropriate.
3. Input costs: The following inputs are to be procured by PAPMU
*     School equipment:
*     Teaching materials: Standard Package Tg X
4. Project Appraisal: Projects will be appraised by the APAC Secretary based on the
following criteria. The beneficiaries for this type project are the number of children aged
8-14 in the sum.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 4
A. GENERAL APPRAISAL CRITERIA                NUMBER          | APPRAISAL
7. Number of Beneficiaries
Male
Female
8. Cost per Beneficiary                                          < TGsX
B. SPECIFIC APPRAISAL             NUMBER    COST    APPRAISAL
CRITERIA FOR TYPE PROJECT    _
9. Rate of out of school children
10. Percentage of girls in the school
11.
12.-_



- 67 -                          ANNEX 4
RURAL HEALTH SERVICES
ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
1. Description: The objective of the Rural Health Services Activity Area of the Local
Development Fund is to maintain or restore the capacity to provide primary health care
services to the rural population. The Activity Area will fund basic inputs directed towards
improving the general ability of rural health services to provide adequate health care to the
community. Reducing maternal mortality and the health service risk factors for maternal
mortality (such as home deliveries) is the single highest priority under this project.
e     Eligibility: Only sums and bags outside the aimag center are eligible for receiving
project finance under this Activity Area
*     Target Group:  The whole community will participate in identifying priority
subprojects
2.  Type Projects: Four types of projects can be financed under the Rural Health
Services Activity Area:
*     Sum hospital renovation: Repair of the sum hospital, installation of new cost
effective heating systems, standard packages of hospital equipment, standard
packages of medicines.
*     Bag feldsher transport and equipment: Horses or camels for transport and
standard feldsher equipment bags.
*     .Sum hospital transportation: Repairs to existing sum ambulance or purchase of
a new one.
*     Community Health Volunteer training: Training of volunteers from  the
community to provide primary health services to the community
Specific guidelines for each type project are detailed in the annex of these Activity Area
Guidelines. Additional inputs identified by comrhunities but not eligible at the present time
may be included in the PIM at a later date. Community should inform the SPAC and
APAC of potential inputs that could be included in the above list.
3. Resource Allocation Criteria           I
(a)   Direct Allocation to Aimag Activity Area: Direct allocations from the
center to the Aimag Rural Health Services Activity Area should be based on
matemal mortality rates. The Direct Allocation To Aimag Activity Form
should be used to inform the aimag of the size of the allocation.



- 68 -                          ANNEX 4
(b)   Allocation from Aimag to Sums: From the direct allocation to the Rural
Health Services Activity Area the APAC can allocate resources to the swn
according to the maternal mortality rates. The APAC should use the
Allocation to Sum Form.
4. Activity Area Impact Evaluation Indicators
Maternal care:
Numbers, rate and causes of maternal deaths.
Child care:
Infant mortality, rate and causes
Perinatal (stillbirth and first six days) mortality
Low birth weight rate
Other care:
-     Overall mortality by age and cause of death
5. Special Approval Criteria for Hospital Transport: For the Hospital Transport Type
project the PAPMU will give the final approval in consultation with the Ministry of
Health.



- 69 -                          ANNEX 4
ANNEX 1A OF RURAL HEALTH SERVICES ACTIVITY AREA GUIDELINES
SUM HOSPITAL RENOVATION
1. Description: The following inputs can be provided from this Type Project:
*     Building Maintenance: repairs to hospital building and maternity rest home,
including improvements to insulation
*     Heating equipment: installation of small-scale cost-effective heating systems in
sum hospital and/or maternity rest home
*     Equipment (standard list):  Selection of essential hospital equipment from a
standard list
*     Medicines (Standard package): A standard package of essential medicines
2. SPAC Formulation Guidelines:
*     Proposals to reopen maternity rest homes should first consider the use of existing
sum hospital rooms
*     Installation of low cost alternative heating systems should be combined with
improved insulation of buildings
*     The SPAC must take into consideration the donation of equipment from other
sources
3. Input costs: The following inputs are to be procured by PAPMU
*     Equipment (standard list): See standard list for cost estimate of individual items
*     Medicines (standard package): Tg X per package
4.  Project Appraisal: The following are the appraisal criteria used by the APAC
Secretary. The beneficiaries for this type project are the people of the sum.
GENERAL APPRAISAL CRITERIA                  NUMBER            APPRAISAL
7. Number of Beneficiaries
Male
Female
8. Cost per Beneficiary                                           < Tgs X



- 70 -                           ANNEX 4
SPECIFIC APPRAISAL CRITERIA             NUMBER   COST   APPRAISAL
FOR
TYPE PROJECT
9.  Cost per number of beds                                         < TgX
10. MMR over the last three years                                   > NA
11. Sum birth rate over the last three years                        > NA
12. % of total births at hospital over the                          < NA
last three years



- 71 -                         ANNEX 5
GOM'S RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION OF MONGOLIAN GOVERNMENT No. 104
25 May, 1994
Ulaanbaatar
On Some Measures to Implement the
National Poverty Alleviation Program
The Government of Mongolia decides:
1. To establish ad hoc National committee to oversee and organize the implementation of
"The national program on alleviation of poverty"/referred further as the program/,
prepared by the Ministry of population policy and labor in cooperation with relevant
Ministries, intemational organizations, NGOs and public organizations.
2. National Committee should:
a/ Carefully examine resources, including loans, assistance, budget estimates required for
the implementation of the Program, and after having completed the necessary preparations
present the present Program to Meeting of Donors to be held in June 1994 in Ulaanbaatar;
b/ Involve NGOs, public organizations, employers, cooperatives organizations and
representatives in activities contained in the program; and
c/ Report annually to the Government on the implementation of the program.
3.Governors of cities and aimags establish ad hoc local Councils charged with the
responsibility of organizing the implementation of the program and report before 1
February of each year on the results of their activities.
4. Mr. Gombojav, Minister for Population Policy and Labor should establish "a unit on
alleviation of poverty "which will have the duties of operational management of the
activities to implement the program, within the structure of his ministry.
signed: Prime Minister of Mongolia    P. Jasrai
Minister for Population Policy       E. Gombojav
and Labor



- 72 -                         ANNEX 5
Annex to Government Resolution No. 104 of 1994
Composition of national committee to oversee the implementation of "National Poverty
Alleviation Program"
Chairman        Deputy Prime Minister in charge of operational coordination of foreign
trade, economic, cultural, scientific and technical cooperation
Deputy Chairmen Minister for Population Policy and Labor
Minister of State and Chairman of the National Development Board
Members         Minister for Health
Minister for Science and Education
Minister for Food and Agriculture
Minister for Trade and Industry
Minister for Infrastructure
Deputy Finance Minister
Deputy Foreign Minister
Secretary       Head of Poverty Alleviation Program Management Unit



- 73 -                         ANNEX 5
RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA
December 28, 1994                                        Ulaanbaatar
Number 230
On Some Measures Related to Implementation of
the National Poverty Alleviation Program
Based on the proposals of the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, UNDP and other
countries supporting Mongolia the Government of Mongolia has decided to:
1. Establish the Poverty Alleviation Program Management Unit under the Minister
of Population Policy and Labor which will coordinate and provide everyday
management of NPAP activities and to approve the placement of a full-time
secretary for the Ulaanbaatar and Aimag Poverty Alleviation Councils.
2. The Chairman of the National Poverty Alleviation Committee, Mr. Ch. Purevdorj
is entrusted to:
a.  ensure the operational costs (including wages) of the PAPMU and the
Ulaanbaatar and Aimag PAC Secretaries will be financed from grants and technical
assistance of donor countries and international organizations within the NPAP.
b. establish a unified Poverty Alleviation Fund according to the general guidelines of
Social and Economic Development of Mongolia in 1995 with 4 subfunds namely the
Local Development Fund; the Women's Development Fund; the Employment
Promotion Fund; and the Social Assistance Fund. The Fund's Council will consist of
representatives of relevant line ministries and NGOs.
c. formulate and approve a regulation on mobilization and disbursement of resources
and monitoring of the Poverty Alleviation Fund within the first quarter of 1995.
3. Aimag and city governors are entrusted to establish a unified Poverty Alleviation
Fund and subfunds at the aimag and city levels.
4. The relevant ministers, chairmen of special agencies and city and aimag governors
are entrusted to: organize activities for mobilization of resources within the
unified Poverty Alleviation Fund; to intensify activities on protection of the poor
population; to organize activities for rational expenditures of the unified fund's
resources; and, to ensure supervision.
Prime Minister                        P. Jasrai
Deputy Prime Minister                 Ch. Purevdori
Minister for Population Policy and Labor  E. Gombojav



- 74 -                                     ANNEX 6
ORGANIZATION CHART OF
THE NATIONAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
|National Poverty Alleviation           |Poverty Alleviation
Committee (NPAC)              Fund Council (PAFC)
I~ ~~~ I
Sector                     Poverty Alleviation Program|
Miniatries                      M4anagement Unit (PAPMUI)
Labor
Exchange
Labor
|Aimag Poverty Alleviation                              I    |Exchange
Social                    Councils (APACa)                           I          L
Security   |                                                                     I       '
Ulaanbaatar Poverty        Social
Alleviation Council   H Security|
Social                                                        (UPAC)
Policy           __________ I 
Sum Poverty Alleviation
Councils (SPACs)                                        Social
I   _   _    _   _   I   _ _    Policy
I                  l    Dureg Poverty
Alleviation Councils
(DPACs)
NGOs                   Beneficiaries 
N GO



- 75 -                                   ANNEX 7
IlPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1995     1996        1997       1998      1999
COMPONENT                           2     1      2  1         2|1         2     1
Income Generation
Basic Education
Rural Health Services
Support for the Disabled
Institutional Support



- 76 -                             ANNEX 8
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE BY SEMESTER
($ Million)
IDA FY & SEMESTER  SEMESTER   CUMULATIVE  PERCENT
1996
Jul.95-Dec.95             1.20              1.20             12
Jan.96-Jun.96             1.30              2.50             25
1997
Jul.96-Dec.96             1.50              4.00             41
Jan.97-Jun.97             1.50              5.50             56
1998
Jul.97-Dec.97             1.50              7.00             70
Jan.98-Jun.98             1.50              8.50             84
1999
Jul.98-Dec.98             1.00              9.50             95
Jan.99-Jun.99             0.50             10.00            100
CLOSING DATE: June 30, 1999



- 77 -                               ANNEX 9
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. Project performance would be measured by three types of indicators-input, output and
impact. While it is difficult to establish direct causality attributed to project specific
inputs, attempts will be made to establish baseline data prior to the provision of project
inputs. School enrollment in a sum would be monitored to trace the impact of installing
new heating system in a classroom. Similarly, in an aimag, if overall maternal mortality
rate declines, attempt will be made to determine if project interventions such as provision
of transport, opening up of maternity homes, and frequent visits by feldshers may have
contributed. Finally, care should also be taken in acknowledging the contributions of other
programs to the outputs and impacts. Table 1 presents the indicators to be monitored.
Table 1: INDICATORS TO BE MONITORED
SUBPROJECT              INPUT             OUTPUT                 IMPACT
Income Generation     Funds Allocated     Jobs Created     -Income per Job
VGOs Established   -No. of ongoing VGOs.
Basic Education     Funds Allocated     Heating System    -School Enrollment
School Transport    (increased from 70-85 %)
New Bag Schools
._________________________                 Teaching   M aterials
Rural Health       Funds Allocated    Hospital Transport  -Maternal Mortality
Medical Kits     (reduced from 24 to 12
No. of Feldshers    per 10,000 births)
Heating System    -Child Mortality
Maternity Homes
Support for the     Funds Allocated   Training Equipment  -No. of disabled trained
Disabled                                               -Income of disabled trained
Table 2: SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS
INDICATOR                          UNIT                     YEAR OF
REFERENCE        VALUE
GNP per Capita                     $                           1994             320
Illiteracy                         %                           1993               4
Net Enrollment in Basic Education  %                           1994             70%
Infant Mortality                   per 1,000 births            1991              72
Maternal Mortality                 per 10,000 live births      1994              24
Population Below Poverty Line      %                           1994              26
Absolute Poor Population                                       1994               6



- 78 -                                 ANNEX 10
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
1. PAPMU through the APACs and SPACs would have the primary responsibility for
supervision. Detailed supervision plan and formats would be developed by PAPMU and
adopted by the Councils. IDA would ensure that the supervision plan captures the input,
output and impact (development) indicators outlined in Annex VIII. To supplement the
Government's supervision effort, IDA in collaboration with PAPMU and UNDP would
supervise the project twice a year, starting in September 1995 with a Project Launch
Workshop. IDA supervision Terms of Reference would be prepared in consultation with
PAPMU to ensure the required skill mix is included in the mission. An indicative
supervision plan and skill composition which will be modified depending on the specific
requirements, is presented in Table 1.
Table 1: INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
SUBJECT                    DATE            MISSION COMPOSITION             SWs
Project Launch Workshop         Sept. 1995            Economist (TM)               2
Social Fund Specialist        2
Civil Engineer             2
Disbursement Analyst          2
UNDP                    2
-Review of Subprojects                 May 1996              Economist (TM)              2
-Review of Implementation                                 Human Resources Sp.            2
Arrangements                                            Management Sp. (UNDP)            2
Annual Review               Sept. 1996            Economist (TM)              2
-Emphasis on Dev't Impact and                                   Engineer                 3
Inst. Performance                                          Poverty Specialist            2
UNDP                    2
-Combined wl Preparation of            May 1997              Economist (TM)              3
next operation                                           Human Resources Sp.             3
UNDP                    3
Annual Review               Sept. 1997            Economist (TM)              2
-Emphasis on Dev't Impact and                                   Engineer                 2
Inst. Performance                                          Poverty Specialist            3
UNDP Staff                2
-Combined w/Preparation of             May 1998              Economist (TM)              3
next operation                                            Human Resources Sp.            3
UNDP                    3
Annual Review               Sept. 1998            Economist (TM)              2
-Emphasis on Dev't Impact and                                   Engineer                 2
Inst. Performance                                          Poverty Specialist            3
UNDP Staff                2
ICR Mission                June 1999             Economist (TM)              2
Engineer                 3
Human Resources Sp.            2
Social Fund Sp.             2
UNDP                    2



- 79 -                         ANNEX 11
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
I. Documents
1. Poverty Alleviation Program, GOM - June 1994
2. "Poverty and the Transition to a Market Economy in Mongolia", UNDP - June 1994
3. Master Plan for Education, MOSE - 1994
4. Health Sector Review, MOH - 1993
5. Income Generation Component Notes, IDA Missions - 1994-95
6. Education Component Notes, IDA Missions - 1994-95
7. Health Component Notes, IDA Missions - 1994-95
8. Social Assistance Component Notes, IDA Missions - 1994-95






(                                             i o                       Lake xION                                       .                                           2IBRD 26754
92  (              j0                                                          LakeHvso     r-UeC/=                                                  NOfotr
Baikal
ULAANY                                             ATes OOMN             G
r                           RHANGAYAHDNTYAD                                             .                                     /           LEee
TSETSR iOMNO-GOBI                                                           /
BAYANHONGOP/                                      .  '                               MONGOLIA
j                ~~~AIMAGS' SHARE OF TOTAL ABSOLUTE
--n_./                                  ~~~~POOR POPULATiON(%)
Percentcges
NG, ~     ~        ~         ~m                    -3
0 - 3%                          ~~~~~~~~~~400 
3-6%
CHINA DANZAboDeG6%
0     1 00    200    300      400    500
I  I  I  I     I       I                                                                                              *      NATIONAL CAPITAL
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                    ROADS
------ P RAILROADS
d                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
The hooundo,,es colors. denonr,or,oos ond any olher ,ntoonaron RVR
shown on thIs nap do nor Wnply- on    G-e oHp                                                                                                              AIMAG BOUNDARIES
oay odgareot on the legal status of ony territory. cr o_y endorsement                                                                                      AP;GBUDRE
or occeptance o- such bo-nd--e-                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
92                                                                                                               10<                                                      116'
05/1Z/1995EnJ|Tlg |           4cb     9 |35TH   F









IMAGING
DRAFT
CONFIDENTIAL
Report No:       13963 MOG
Type: SAR



