CREDIT NUMBER 2760-MOG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project)
between
MCNGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONhL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Datedoco kD               , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2760-MOG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated( CL   Y 6         , 1995, between MONGOLIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has adopted a National Poverty
Alleviation Program in 1994 in pursuance of which, among others, a
Local Development Fund has been established with a view to alleviat-
ing obstacles to socio-economic development and create employment
opportunities;
(B)    the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to       the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)   the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in an aggregate amount
equivalent to $385,000 to assist in the financing of the Borrower's
National Poverty Alleviation Program under an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP (the UNDP Project
Document); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import,
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."


﻿2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms,
wherever used in this Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)  "Aimag" means a province of the Borrower.     For the
purpose of this Agreement, Ulaanbaatar is considered to be an Aimag.
(b) "APAC" means Aimag Poverty Alleviation Council as
established in each Aimag by the Aimag governor in pursuance of
Resolution 104. For the purpose of this Agreement, the UlaanLbaatar
Poverty Alleviation Council - established in accordance with
Resolution 104 - is considered to be an APAC.
(c) "Implementing Agencies" means the following agencies and
entities that are responsible for the implementation of the Project
or any aspect thereof: NPAC, PAPMU, APACs, SPACs, Aimags, Sums, as
well as VGOs.
(d)  "Implementing Legislation" means a legislative instrument
that:
(i)     instructs Sum governors to establish SPACs in
their Sums;
(ii)   gives PAPMU, APACa and SPACs the capacity to
enter into agreements and open and maintain bank
accounts in the context of the implementation of
the Project; and
(iii)  ensures that the Implementing Agencies (with the
exception of VGOs) shall implement the Project
in accordance with this Agreement and the
Project Implementation Manual.
(e)  "Mongol Bank" means the central bank of the Borrower.
(f) "NPAC" means the National Poverty Alleviation Committee,
as established by the Borrower's Resolution 104.
(g)  "PAPMU" means the Poverty Alleviation Program Management
Unit, a unit established under the Borrower's Minister of Population
Policy and Labor that is responsible for the coordination and day to
day management of the Borrower's Poverty Alleviation Program, in
accordance with the Borrower's Resolution 230.
(h) "Poverty Alleviation Fund Account" is the account in
which the Borrower's contributions to the financing of the Project
are deposited as provided for in paragraph 7(b) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(i) "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual, adopted
in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
setting out the operational, financial and administrative procedures
covering the implementation of the Project, as this manual may be
revised from time to time.


﻿3
(j) "Resolution 104" means the Borrower's resolution dated
May 25, 1994, that establishes NPAC and instructs governors of
Aimags to establish local poverty alleviation councils.
(k) "Resolution 230" means the Borrower's resolutiou dated
December 28, 1994, establishing, inter alia, PAPKU.
(1)  "SPAC" means   Sum  Poverty  Alleviation  Council   as
established in each Sum by the Sum governor in pursuance of the
Implementing Legislation. For the purpose of this Agreement each
Dureg Poverty Alleviation Council that is established in a Dureg (a
district of Ulaanbaatar) in accordance with the Implementing
Legislation, is considered to be a SPAC.
Wm) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(n) "Sum" means a provincial district of the Borrower. For
the purpose of this Agreement, a Dureg (a district of Ulaanbaatar)
is considered to be a Sum.
(o) "Sub-project" means a sub-project in one of the cate-
gories set out in Part B of the Project which meets the requirements
set out in the Project Implementation Manual and this Agreement.
(p) "VGO" means Vulnerable Group Organization, an organiza-
tion established as a legal entity under Mongolian law, that will
implement one or more productive activities Sub-projects under Part
B (a) (ii) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to Six Million Five Hundred Thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Mongol Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The comnitment charge shall accrue:
(i)     from the date sixty days after the date of this
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
and
(ii)    at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)     at  such  places  as  the   Association  shall
reasonably request;
(ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii)   in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be design-
ated or selected pursuant to the provisions of
that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commenc-
ing December 15, 2005 and ending June 15, 2035. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 2015 shall be one


﻿5
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i)     the  Borrower's  gross  national  product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall
have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and
(ii)    the Bank shall consider the Borrower credit-
worthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the develop-
ment of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall
have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modi-
fication to include, in lieu of some or all of
the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judg-:
ment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of Imerica is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate finan-
cial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources,
required for the Project.


﻿6
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower as well
as the Implementing Agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and the records
and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of


﻿7
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning ruch records, accounts, finan-
cial statements and the audit thereof. as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account or payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the Association's representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Borrower or any of the Implementing Agencies shall
have failed to comply with the provisions of the Project
Implementation Manual.
(b) Any of the following shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the implementation of
the Project in accordance with this Agreement:


﻿8
(i)    Resolution   104,   Resolution   230   or   the
implementing Legislation; and
(ii)    the Project Implementation Manual.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events arc specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Project Implementation Manual shall have been adopted
by NPAC and shall have entered into effect.
(b) The   UNDP   Project  Document   and  the   contractual
arrangements referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, shall have entered into effect.
(c) The Implementing Legislation shall have been adopted by
the Borrower and entered into effect.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿9
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Oktyabriin 7
Ulaanbaatar 11
Mongolia
Telex:
719-79241
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:           Telex:
INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
MONGOLIA
By       J -L   tU0'I- OY
Authorized Representative
INTER1MTIONL DEVELOPNT ASSOCIATION
By        YA-,Ln
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿11
SCHEDLE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Categor                 SDR Equivalent   to be Financed
1. Sub-project financing                       100%
(Part B of the Project)
a) income generation        3,690,000
b) basic education          1,300,000
c) rural health services    1,300,000
d) Support to the             140,000
disabled
2. Consultants' services          70,000       100%
(Part A of the Project)
TOTAL:                     6,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Sub-project
financing" means amounts made available out of the proceeds of the
Credit to finance Sub-projects, in accordance with this Agreement
and the Project Implementation Manual.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
97,000, may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for:
(a) expenditures for Sub-project financing not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent;
(b) expenditures for services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for indivi-
duals, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿12
SCHEULE 2
Description of the Project
1.    The objective of the Project is to mitigate the adverse
effects of the Borrower's economic transition on the poor segments
of vulnerable groups.
2.    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Institutional Support
The strengthening of the management, implementation and
monitoring capacity of the Implementing Agencies in such areas as,
the identification, appraisal, supervision and evaluation of Sub-
projects, and management information systems, through provision of
training, related consultants' services and operating costs.
Part B:    Sub-projects
The financing of Sub-projects in:
(a) income generation, through the carrying out of:
(i)  public works; and
(ii) productive activities;
(b) basic education, which would aim at the reduction of the
dropout and non-enrollment rates, including the installation and
repair of heating systems, the renovation of schools and the
provision of teaching materials;
(c) rural health services, which would aim at the reduction
of maternal mortality, including the provision of transport
services, the installation of heating systems, the supply of medical
equipment and the training of health staff; and
(d) support to the disabled, including the provision of
specialized equipment and teaching materials to organizations
providing education, training and employment opportunities to the
physically disabled and mentally retarded.
*           *            *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿13
SCEULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I        Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:    Procurement Procedures
1.    Works estimated to cost between $4,000 and $10,000 equivalent
per contract and $5,780,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three contractors, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Works estimated to cost less than $4,000 equivalent per
contract and $3,560,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be procured
under contracts on the basis of negotiations with contractors, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
International Shopping
3.    Goods  estimated  to   cost between   $50,000  and  $200,000
equivalent per contract and $500,000 equivalent in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of interna-
tional shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
National Shopping
4.    Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract and $300,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part C:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to September 30, 1995, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions
of said paragraph.


﻿14
2.    Post Review
With respect to all contracts to be procured in accordance
with Part B of this Schedule, tho procedures set forth in paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II       Rmployment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association.   Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:
(i)     the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii)    single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii)   assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association;
(iv)    amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or
(v)     amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿15
SCHEUL   4
Implementation Program
1.    (a) The Borrower shall implement the Project through the
Implementing Agencies. NPAC shall have overall responsibility for
the implementation of the Project, while PAPMU shall act as
secretariat to NPAC and shall be responsible for day to day
management of the Project.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  ensure  that   throughout   the
implementation of the Project, PAPMU shall be staffed by competent
staff in adequate numbers, including a full-time director whose
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Association.
2.     Sub-project financing shall be made available from the
proceeds of the Credit as follows :
(a) up to 96% of total Sub-project cost (net of taxes) for
Sub-projects for income generation under Part B (a) of the Project;
up to 100% of total Sub-project cost (net of taxes) for all other
Sub-projects;
(b) financing of Sub-projects from the proceeds of the Credit
shall be made available on a non-reimbursable basis, except that the
principal amount of financing made available from the proceeds of
the Credit for the implementation of Sub-projects for productive
activities under Part B (a) (ii) of the Project, shall be repaid on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including, a
repayment period not exceeding four years, including a one year
grace period and no interest, unless agreed otherwise by the
Association; and
(c) financing for Sub-projects for productive activities
under Part B (a) (ii) of the Project shall be made available in
local currency only.
3.    The Borrower shall cause NPAC to adopt, in form and substance
acceptable to the Association, a Project Implementation Manual
setting out the operational, financial and administrative procedures
governing the implementation of the Project, including, inter alia,
Sub-project eligibility and appraisal criteria, performance
indicators, procurement, disbursement, supervision accounting and
audit procedures, as well as provisions:
(a) describing the membership, responsibilities and decision
making procedures of each of the Implementing Agencies;
(b) stipulating that Sub-projects for productive activities
under Part B (a) (ii) of the Project shall be carried out by VGOs,
and that for each such Sub-project the VGO and APAC concerned shall
enter into an agreement for the implementation of said Sub-project,
including an obligation for the VGO to implement the Sub-project in


﻿16
accordance with this Agreement and the Project Implementation
Manual;
(c) ensuring the involvement of Sub-project beneficiaries and
non governmental organizations in the identification, implementation
and supervision of Sub-projects; and
(d)  ensuring that APACs and SPACs shall make appropriate
arrangements for the supervision of Sub-projects and shall provide
adequate facilities for field visits.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that only Sub-projects that comply
with this Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual will be
financed from the Credit.
5.     (a) Any amendment to the Project Implementation Manual that
concern any change in:
(i)     Sub-project types, eligibility   or   appraisal
criteria;
(ii)    the criteria for the allocation of Credit funds
to Aimags and Sums; and
(iii)   procurement and disbursement procedures, shall
be subject to the prior approval of the
Association.
(b) In case of conflict between the Project Implementation
Manual and this Agreement, the last-mentioned shall prevail.
6.    In order to assist the Borrower with the recruitment and
supervision of consultants required for Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ an agency acceptable to the Association, under
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
7.    The Borrower shall:
(a) provide in its budget amounts sufficient to cover its
contributions to the costs of the Project;
(b) open and maintain an account (the Poverty Alleviation
Fund Account) in Mongol Bank on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association;
(c) deposit into the Poverty Alleviation Fund Account amounts
as follows:
(i)     an amount equivalent to $85,500 not later than
January 10, 1996;
(ii)    an amount equivalent to $132,500 not later than
January 10 in each of the following years: 1997,
1998 and 1999; and


﻿17
(d) ensure that the amounts deposited in the Poverty Allevia-
tion Fund Account will be used exclusively for the Borrower's
expenditures under the Project and are included in the Borrower's
public expenditure program.
8.    The Borrower shall cause PAPMU to establish (in PAPMU and the
APACs), not later than November 30, 1995, and maintain thereafter,
a management information system acceptable to the Association and
capable of generating, inter alia, detailed reports regarding Sub-
Project identification, appraisal, implementation, supervision and
impact, throughout the implementation of the Project.
9.    The Borrower shall develop a strategy for providing social
services on a sustainable basis over the period 1996 to 2000, and
shall submit a draft of that strategy to the Association for review
not later than December 31, 1995.
10.   The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the APACs to submit quarterly Project progress
reports and accounts to PAPMU;
(b) cause PAPMU to monitor the implementation of the Project
and, within four weeks from the end of each six-month interval as of
the date of this Agreement, to submit to the Association a semi-
annual progress report on the implementation of the Project, in a
format approved by the Association, including a set of key progress
indicators monitoring the delivery of inputs and the achievement of
Project outputs, as well as key development impact indicators,
acceptable to the Association;
(c) cause PAPMU to organize and carry out annual reviews by
September 30 of each year, starting in 1996, and, as part of each
review, to    prepare a program of action, satisfactory to the
Association, to deal with deficiencies in Project implementation
identified during the review; and
(d) take, or cause NPAC and PAPMU to take, promptly after
each review mentioned in paragraph (c) above, all necessary act.
required for the implementation of the program of action referred ':o
in said paragraph.


﻿18
SCHEULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Category 1 set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
drawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each


﻿19
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower,    withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿20
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account:
(i)    was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or
(ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or
(B)   deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree,  no   further   deposit   by  the
Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


