The Wo;
FOR OFFMCL
Rpt No. 9922
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1524-TA)
OCTOBER 4, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional O'fice
This document has a restricted distribution and ma! be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY ECUIVALEO4T
Current Unit   =  Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)  =
US$ 1.00        =  Tsh  17 (June 1984)       =  SDR 1.03967
US$ 1.00        =  Tsh 120 (May 1989)           SDR 1.26560
US$ 1.00        =  Tsh 190 (January 1990)   =  SDR 1.31850
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BFU                Budget and Finance Unit
FAO                Food and Agricultur- Organization of the United
Nations
FAO/CP             Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations/World Bank Cooperative Program
GOT        :       Government of Tanzania
IDA                International Development Association
MDB         :      Marketing Development Bureau
MOA         :      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development
PCR                Project Completion Report
PMU                Project Monitoring Unit
PPMB               Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
PPU                Project Preparation Unit
SP         :       Sectoral Planning
TA         :       Technical Assistance
TANAA             Agricultural Adjustment Program
TCMB               Tanzania Cotton Marketing Board
TA IV              Fourth Technical Assistance Project
TA III             Third Technical Assistance Project
TARO               Tanzania Agricultural Research Organization
UTF                United Trust Fund
URT         :      United Republic of Tanzania
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
WB          :      World Bank
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30



FM OFTIAL US ONLY
Tr* WORLD BANK
WsJhingtiofl DC 20433
OUt. n of  ctlW-C~&
O,s.Muiin fvai*.ii4,E
October 4. 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Tanzania
Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1524-TA
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report - Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1524-TA)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                    -
This document has  rsstnctd distbution sisd wf v bc   byr rIv



'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COhPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
'Credit 1524-TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paage
PREFACE .....................                                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................                              iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.. 1
Project Identity.                                                    1
Background .........2.......    .....   ............................. 1
Project Objectives and Descriptior ................................ 2
Project Design and Organization ..............................       4
Project Implementation ............................................ 5
Project Results ..............................                       6
Project Sustainability and Follow-up .............................. 9
Bank Performance ..............................                     10
Borrower Performance ..............................                 11
Project Relationship and Consulting Services .12
Project Documentation and Data .12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATICN .14
Table  1:  Related Bank Credits/Loans .14
Table 2: Project Time Table .16
Table  3:  Estimated and Actual Disbursements per Year .17
Table  4:  Actual and Estimated Project Costs .18
Table  5:  Project Implementation and Results .19
Table 6: Status of Major Covenants .20
Table  7:  Use of Staff Resources - Supervision Missions .21
ANNEX  I
Table la:  Project Implementation and Results - PPMB .22
Table lb:  Project Implementation and Results - MDB .23
Table lc:  Project Implementation and Results - Crop Research .     24
Table ld:  Project Implementation and Results - Sectoral
Planning   . .25
Table 2a: Project Cost PPMB    ..26
Table 2b: Project Cost MDB    ..27
Table 2c:  Project Cost Crop Research.             .28
Table 2d:  Project Cost Sectoral Planning     .       .             29
MAP   IBRD 22919
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1524-TA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth
Technical Assistance Project in Tanzania, for which Credit 1524-TA in
the amount of SDR 9.9 million was approved on October 9, 1984 and which
became effective on April 19, 1985. The credit was closed on June 30,
1989, one year behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement was on August 3, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department and the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR -as started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in January 1989, followed by a FAO/CP
mission in January 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Apprais-
al Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETIION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1524-TA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    In the early 1980's, the Government and the Bank initiated an
assessment of the disappointing perform.ance of Bank financed agricultur-
al projects in Tanzania. Both the Government and the Bank relied
heavily on studies carried out by the Project Preparation and Monitoring
Bureau (PPMB) and the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB). It was then
felt that both agencies, as wel' as the Sectoral Planning Unit, needed
additional support to strengther their capacity to desig.x and implement
development policies, and produce the objective factual studies neces-
sary for further dialogue.
2.    In response to this need, the Fourth Technical Assistance project
(TA IV) was formulated and it was appraised in October 1983. The
project was expected to cost US$ 11.9 million over a three year imple-
mentation period. An IDA credit of SDR 9.9 million (US$ 10.0 million)
was approved in October 1984 and became effective in April 1985. The
project continued previous Bank suppuLL to the same agencies under the
National Maize, and Grain Storage and Milling projects, and followed the
Third Technical Assistance project, which provided support for other
units in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). (The first two Technical
Assistance projects supported the industrial sector).
Objectives
3.    TA IV was formulated with the specific objective of strengthening
MOA's capacity to provide the analytical foundations to: (i) improve
agricultural pricing, (ii) monitor project and parastatal performance in
the agricultural sector, and (iii) improve agricultural research. It
would assist GOT to design and implement its program to review and
revise policies and institutional arrangements in the agricultural
sector by extending financing for MDB (the major policy analysis body),
PPMB (the financial monitoring institution) and the Sectoral Planning
Unit, and to begin to coordinate the fragmented agricultural research
system.
4.    In order to achieve its objectives, the project would provide
long- and short-term technical assistance, long- and short-term fellow-
ship training, equipment, and operating expenses. During a Tri-partite
Review meeting in May 1987, it was decided to continue under TA IV the
financing of some components of a Sectoral Planning Assistance project,
which had previously been financed under TA III.



- iv -
5.    The Government asked FAO to provide the projec. inputs under a
Unilateral !rust Fund (UTF) financing arrangement. For this purpose
four individual project documents, one for each component, were agreed
upon between GOT and FAO. This followed similar, well known arrange-
ments made under previous projects.
Implementation Experience
6.    The project did not suffer from the initial implementation
difficulties that had been experienced by the TA III project, firstly
because the project was a follow-up exercise using well-proven institu-
tional arrangements, and secondly because the project concept was much
simpler. Some delays were encountered, however, regarding the recruit-
ment of some of the international consultants and the organization of
the fellowships. Yet, these delays did not seriously affect project
results.
7.    The research component suffered from entirely different implemen-
tation difficulties, emanating mainly from the organizational disarray
in which agricultural research was at the time of the project (subse-
quently addressed under a research rehabilitation project, currently
under implementation).
Results
8.    With the exception of the research component, the project achieved
its objectives of strengthening MOA's capacity to provide the analytical
foundations to improve agricultural pricing policy and to monitor
project and parastatal performance in the agricultural sector. Studies
and documents produced by the supported agencies are of high quality and
have proved most helpful in preparing new policy directions for Tanzania
and the subsequent Agricultural Adjustment Program. Measuring the
progress achieved is difficult, however, due to the very nature of the
assistance provided, and to the poor definition of objectives and
outputs in the project documents.
9.    By agreeing to finance TA IV, the International Development
Association contributed to the long-term strengthening of key institu-
tions in the agricultural sector. This continuity in assistance has
been one of the most important reasons for the success achieved by the
Bank-assisted Technical Assistance program.
10.   Although the research component failed to achieve its main
objective of improving research-extension linkages, some tangible
results can be reported in the preparation of crop research reviews and
farming systems analysis.
Sustainability
11.   Most of the progress achieved may be considered sustainable as the
project concentrated more on longer-term institution building goals
rather than on immediate outputs from technical assistance. Long-term



v 
sustainability will depend, however, on whether: (1) the staff that so
far has been trained will continue to work in a policy advisory role;
(2) GOT will maintain an environment conducive to carrying out such a
role; and (3) GOT will ensure the provision of adequate operating
expenses and facilities to the institutions involved.  Past performance
has been encouraging.  Most staff trained during the 1980s, continue
w3rkiai,7 in their institutions, or were transferred or pror,oted to other
pol4cy decision positions in Government.
12.   The liberalization of the economy in Tanzania currently under way
has demanded shifts in the types of policy advice required by Govern-
ment. This development necessitated supplementary technical assistance,
which is being provided under the Agricultural Adjustment Program,
currently under implementation (Credit 2116-TA).
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.   Although not all project components were successfully implemented,
overall the project results were satisfactory. The following lessons
may be learned from the implementation of TA IV:
(a)   True institution building and manpowez development requires
long-term assistance and continuity in its implementation;
(b)   Government's commitment, especially regarding counterpart
staffing, both in terms of overall levels and continuity, is
essential to institution building;
(c)   Overseas fellowship G ;ree training requires, in most cases,
to be followed up by a substantial period of practical on-
the-job training;
(d)   Good working conditions and overseas training made it
attractive for national staff to remain in the supported
agencies, and
(e)   Technical assistance and institution building, by their
nature, do not lend themselves easily to quantification of
project objectives and outputs.  Yet, an effort should be
made in the appraisal of such projects to ensure the setting
of clear and realistic objectives that are attainable within
the proposed implementation period.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1524-TA)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name                            Fourth Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number                   1524 - TA
RVP Unit                       AF6AG
Country                  :      Tanzania
Sector                         Agriculture
2. Background
2.1   In 1980, the World Bank Group (WB) virtually stopped project
lending for agriculture, following the disappointing performance of WB
financed projects in Tanzania. At the same time, the WB and the
Government of Tanzania (GOT) initiated an assessment of the causes of
the increasingly poor performance of the agricultural sector. During
the early 1980s this reassessment culminated in the Bank's "Tanzania
Agricultural Sector Report" and the Government's White Paper on
"Agricultural Policy in Tanzania".
2.2   During the preparation of the above mentioned analyses and the
subsequent intensive discussions, both the WB and GOT had relied heavily
on studies carried out by two agencies within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB); and the
Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau (PPMB). Both Bureaus had
previously been supported by the Bank Group and had received technical
assistance from FAO. 1/ This technical assistance support had had
considerable success as could be assessed by the improvement, both in
quantity and quality, of work undertaken by MDB and PPMB as well as by
the adoption of a number of policy initiatives stimulated by studies
conducted by both institutions. Therefore, it was felt that GOT needed
1/    This assistance had been organized through three FAO-executed
projects: (i) UTF/URT/057 "Strengthening of MDB"; (ii)
UTF/URT/061 "Strengthening of PPMB"; and (iii) UTF/URT/064
"Strengthening of Sectoral Planning".  All three projects had been
financed from Technical Assistance III (Cr. 1206 TA) funds.
Before that, PPMB and MDB had been supported by FAO-executed
technical assistance projects financed under the National Maize
-Project (Cr. 606 TA) and Grain Storage and Milling Project (Cr.
1015 TA).



- 2-
continued support to sustain in depth economic and policy analytical
work necessary to: (i) develop a realistic agricultural recovery
strategy, and (ii) support the continued policy dialogue between the
Bank and GOT, as this dialogue had led to substantial agreement between
the Bank and GOT on the nature and the seriousness of the problems in
the agricultural sector. The need for substantial external technical
assistance in support of agricultural research in order not to lose
essential research data while the sector was being reorganized, had
alread- been identified in this context.
2.3   Subsequently, the Fourth Technical Assistance project (TA IV) 2/
was formulated. GOT prepared the MDB and PPMB components and, with
assistance of the Bank, the research component. An appraisal missien
visited Tanzania in October 1983 and a brief post-appraisal mission
followed in February 1984. The project was expected to cost US$11.9
million over a three year implementation period. In support of this, en
IDA credit of SDR 9.9 mi'lion (then equivalent to US$ 10.0 million) was
approved in October 1984 (President's Report "o. F-3731-TA of August 16,
1984). TA IV became effective in April 1985.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   Project Obiectives:  TA IV was formulated with the specific
objective of strengthening MOA's capacity to provide the analytical
foundations (i) to improve agricultural pricing policy, (ii) to mcnitor
project and parastatal performance in the agricultural sector, and (iii)
to improve agricultural research. It would assist GOT to design and
implement its program to review and r3vise policies and institutional
arrangements in the agricultural sector by extending fina)icing for MDB
(the major policy analysis body) and PPMB (the major financial
monitoring institution), and to begin to coordinate the fragmented
agricultural research system.
3.2   Project Description:  Specific components of the project were:
(i)   Assistance to the MDB:
(a)   five advisors for long term consultancies of thirty
staff months each, and short term consultancies
totaling seven staff months;
(b)   ten staff years of overseas fellowship training;
2/    Of the previous three Bank-assisted TA projects, the first two had
been implemented by the Tanzania Investment Bank and were not
geared to the agricultural sector. The Third project (Cr. 1206-
TA) was a line of credit to finance training and specific
Technical Assistance for a whole range of institutions in the
agricultural sector with the objective of eliminating specific
bottlenecks arising from the shortage of specialized staff in the
sector. See the PCR of TA III, dated December 2', 1989.



-3-
(c)   vehicles and equipment; and
(d)   support staff and operating assistance.
(ii) Assistance to the PPMB:
(a)   Eleven advisors for long term consultancies totalling
252 staff months, and short term consultaticies for a
total of seven staff months;
(b)   nine staff years of overseas training and 50 staff
months of local training;
(c)   vehicles and equipment;
(d)   support staff and operating assistance; and
(e)   special studies on:
(1) the effectiveness of Technical Assistance and the
use of skilled agricultural manpower, and
(2) the design of a strategy for training and for
infrastructure development at the Sokoine
University of Agriculture.
(iii) Assistance to the Department of Research:
(a)   Five long term advisors for 30 staff months each;
(b)   vehicles and equipment; and
(c)   support staff and operating assistance.
(iv)  Under the TA III project, assistance to the Sectoral
Planning Unit, in the Planning Division, had been provided.
During the TA IV Tri-partite Review meeting of May 1987, the
Government, FAO and IDA decided to continue under TA IV for
a short, fixed term the financing of a few long term
consultants which had previously been financed tinder TA III.
This second, much more limited, phase started in January
1988. 3/
3.3   The technical assistance to be provided under TA IV was executed
by FAO under Unilateral 'rust Fund (UTF) financing arrangements. For
this purpose, the following four FAO/GOT project documents, one for each
component, were agreed upon between GOT and FAO.
3/    The previous component had also been implemented by FAO as
UTF/URT/064 and was the main component of the TA III project. The
follow-up phase also included a small component financing
accountancy assistance to the Tanzania Sisal Authority.



-4-
FAO Priect title                                FAO proiect code
1. Strengthening of Project Preparation         UTF/URT/078
and Monitoring Unit (PPMB, phase III)
2. Agricultural crop research project           UTF/URT/081
3. Strengthening of Marketing Service          UTF/URT/083
(MDB, phase V)
4. Strengthening of the Sectoral Planning    UTF/UKT/095
in MOA (SP, phase II)
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1   The project objectives and procedures were clearly understood by
all parties. This was mainly due to the fact that the PPMB, MDB and SP
components were follow-up activities to ongoing ones, for which the
institutional arrangements, as well as local and some international
staff, were already in place. These institutions had furthermore been
responsible for the design of the individual components. The same was
true for the implementing agency, FAO, for whom the various components
were part of their ongoing Technical Assistance program in the sector,
and for the Bank, which had already funded similar activities under
previous projects.
4.2   Perhaps as a result of this familiarity, little attempt was made
to explicitly and comprehensively list the project's objectives nor to
quantify the expected outputs. This is well illustrated by the
statement of objectives of the FAO project documient on SP in which the
objectives are vaguely formulated as: "to continue and strengthen the
delivery of technical assistance to MOA in the field of agricultural and
livestock sector planning". This statement obviously did not provide
adequate guidance to MOA and project staff about the project's
objectives or likely project activities, nor does it allow for an ex-
post evaluation of the component's performance.
4.3   The origin and justificaticn of the crop research component remain
unclear. Apparently, the institutional fragmentation of agricultural
research 4/ did not allow for a clear identification of its main
constraints. Furthermore, the project had been prepared within MOA but
it was to be implemented by the Tanzania Agricultural Research
4/    At the time, agricultural research was organized in at least 4
parastatals besides MOA. These were merged into a single MOA
Department under the National Agricultural and Livestock Research
Rehabilitation Project, currently under implementation (Cr. 1970-
TA).



Organization (TARO), which had hardly been involved in its preparation.
Consequently, the objectives of the project remained poorly defined ("to
strengthen linkages between research and extension") and were not
considered adequate by those responsible for its implementation. As a
result, the foreseen technical assistance proved to be insufficient to
overcome the institutional constraints.
5. Project Implementation
5.1   The project did not suffer from the same initial implementation
difficulties that had been experienced by the previous Technical
Assistance III project. Firstly, because the project was similar to the
previous technical assistance operations, using established and well-
proven institutional arrangements. Secondly, because the project
concept was simpler, concentrating technical assistance efforts on only
t'%ree agencies. all based in Dar es Salaam and under the same MOA
Department.
5.2   Some delays in implementation were encountered, however, with
regard to the recruitment of international consultants and to the
organization of fellowships. FAO found it difficult at times to
identify suitably qualified professionals. In some instances, these
delays were quite substantial. In other instances, delays went parallel
to slower-than-expected recruitment of counterpart staff, so that these
delays were actually beneficial to project implementation as they
allowed Technical Assistance staff to be available when the newly
trained staff returned from their fellowship training and required on-
the-job training. Delays in recruitment of technical assistance staff
was more serious in those cases where they had to be involved in filling
expertise gaps such as in the Budget and Finance Unit of PPMB. In those
cases recruitment delays resulted in under-performance of the
institution during the waiting period.
5.3   The research component suffered from entirely different
implementation difficulties, emanating mainly from the organizational
disarray in which agricultural research found itself at the time of the
start of the project. It soon became apparent that there was little
research that could not already be made available in an acceptable form
to the extension service, but that due to the organizational constraints
these were not fully utilized.  As a result, the main objective of this
component was reformulated and the notion of a comprehensive program of
on-farm field trials/demonstration using hitherto "unused' research was
abandoned.  The project objectives statements were not changed; instead,
revised Terms of Reference were prepared in June 1987.
5.4   It had already been agreed during TA III to construct office space
for the Planning Division of MOA (i.e. PPMB, MDB, and SP) *o overcome
the poor working conditions faced by the agencies and to allow them to
benefit from common facilities such as data bases and communication
facilities. Funds totalling around US$ 1 million were available from
UNDP sources.  Although all parties agreed at the Tri-partite Review
meeting in 1987 to proceed with the construction of th0 new facilities,
no further actioni was ever taken by the Government.



-6-
6. Proiect Results
6.1   General.  With exception of the research component, the project
achieved its objectives of strengthening MOA's capacity to provide the
analytical foundations to improve agricultural pricing policy and to
monitor project and parastatal performance in the agricultural sector.
Measuring the progress achieved is rendered difficult, however, because
of the rather vague description of project objectives and output in the
Presi.dent's Report (Para 4.2).
6.2   When evaluating project impact, TA IV should not be considered in
isolation, but as part of the ongoing WB/FAO support program to the
institutions involved. Apart from the essential recuisite of a
generally positive policy and institutional environment, basically three
factors can be identified as having had a major impact on achieving the
overall loncer-term objectives of increasing the institutions' capacity
to carry out their respective mandates: (1) the duration of the total
assistance program; (2) the level of counterpart staffing; and (3)
national staff working conditions.
6.3   Regarding the first point, there is a clear association between
the duration of technical assistance program and the progress achieved
in each of the institutions concerned. For example, MDB was established
in the early 1970s and has received continuous assistance since then.
Therefore, MDB had the opportunity to attract a full contingent of staff
and send them on advanced fellowship training followed by up to five
years on-the-job training and supervision by technical assistance staff.
The result is that most tasks are presently carried out under the full
responsibility of local staff 5/. The Sectoral Planning unit, in
contrast, had not received assistance under the previous projects and
thus was, in this respect, only in the initial phase, with few staff
having received adequate overseas training.
6.4   Secondly, there also is a clear association between the level of
deployment of national (counterpart) staff and progress achieved. Those
inst.ftutions where GOT had difficulties in employing capable staff and
retaining them have made least progress. Thirdly, the general working
conditions of government staff, as reflected in salary levels, office
accommodation and career development prospects, deteriorated
substantially during the 1980s. These developments rendered the
employment and retention of staff difficult, especially in those areas
where there is competition from the private sector, such as accountants,
economists and project analysts. The better working conditions for
national staff in the agencies supported by externally funded projects
(transport, office supplies, etc.), in addition to the overseas
fellowship program, made staying in the MDB, PPMB and SP attractive to
staff and contributed to the generally positive performance of
counterpart staff and the low level of staff rotation. This, in turn,
5/    The number of expatriate staff has been reduced from 7 in 1984 to
2 in 1989.



-7-
allowed a longer training of staff and more sustainable institution
building.
6.5   Results per Institution.  During the fifth phase of its Technical
Assistance support, MDB continued to play an important role in
supporting MOA by providing agricultural policy and pricing analyses.
The Price Review Unit undertook price analyses on a regular basis with
minimal technical assistance input. The Market Information Unit carried
out a series of costs of production surveys based on farming systems and
undertook training programs for national staff, including regional
workshops on agricultural marketing. The quality of the market
information has recently been improved by the introduction of a radio
market information service with weekly nationwide broadcastings. The
Operational Efficiency Unit has had a major input into the Government
Task Force examining improvements to export marketing efficiency. The
Livestock Section has carried out regular and ad hoc price reviews
(monthly and weekly livestock market information) and sector reviews.
MDB has also been involved in the major policy reforms implemented
recently in the agricultural sector. Its participation was particularly
active in the preparation of the 1987 Agricultural Sector Review
prepared by FAO and the Bank, and of the WB-supported Economic Recovery
Program and Agricultural Adjustment Program. MDB staff is presently
participating in a task force on Food Distribution Systems which should
form the basis for new policy initiatives.
6.6   The third phase of its technical assistance support enabled PPMB
to continue to increase its capacity to carry out its mandate. Both in
terms of output and quality, noticeable progress was made by the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) and the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU). In the
Budget and Finance Unit (BFU), the most recently created unit, less
progress was made, mainly due to slow recruitment of local staff.
During the project implementation period, PPU prepared 44 project
feasibility studies and reviewed 201 projects prepared by other institu-
tions. 6/ PPMB cooperated with other institutions, such as MDB and SP,
in the preparation of 10 agricultural development programs. 7/ The
quality of the project preparation and review activities has improved,
while the number of international staff participating in these activi-
ties decreased.
6/    Major projects prepared include the 'Coconut Coir project; Cassava
Meal Bug Control project; Southern Highlands Smallholder Wheat
project, twe livestock projects; and the Smallholder Fire-cured
Tobacco Projection Project. PPU staff participated in the prepa-
ration of the IDA-financed Agricultural Extension Rehabilitation
project, Cashewnut Improvement project and Coconut Development
project (The latter two are presently being financed as the Tree
Crops Development project).
7/    Amongst others: the Coffee Expansion Program; Sisal Industry
Development program, and the Cotton Development Program. PPMB
staff also participated in the preparation of the Livestock
Development Program.



-8-
6.7   The progress achieved is even more impressive in the PMU.  The
unit presently has a full contingent of trained and experienced staff
capable to carry out its mandate with minimal technical assistance. The
Unit's work centers on fiscal and financial monitoring of development
projects in the government budget (123 in 1989/90 with a total budget of
TSh 20,822 million of which 92Z externally financed). In addition, the
Unit has carried out a number of special assignments and policy reviews
in which technical assistance support has been more pronounced.
6.8   Parastatal monitoring activities carried out by BFU have centered
on analyzing financial returns of parastatal companies. These monitor-
ing activities have greatly assisted GOT and the parastatals involved in
improving their management and reducing their cost. The quality of
accounting in most parastatals has improved during the period under
review 8/. The Unit has also been responsible for preparing a number
of important policy papers and in-depth reviews of certain industries.
Most of the work was, however, carried out by technical assistance
staff; due to the slow recruitment of local staff only limited progress
could be made towards institution building.
6.9   The two studies were undertaken by independent locally recruited
consultants under overall PPMB management - the Tanzania High Level
Agricultural Manpower Study and the Study of the Sokoine Infrastructural
Requirements. 9/ Both studies were undertaken with considerable
delays and were still under review at the time of PCR preparation.
Their quality seems appropriate, but the impact of the studies was still
unclear. PPMB carried this work without expatriate technical assistance
personnel.
6.10 Support to SP under the TA IV project did not benefit from the
longer-running support to MDB and PPMB. The second phase of technical
assistance support for SP, financed under TA IV, started only in January
1988 and was mainly limited to continuing the overseas training program
8/    Also assisted by specific accountancy assistance provided to
parastatals under a number of Bank-assisted projects.
9/    The Agricultural Manpower Study assessed the historical supply and
deployment of graduates employed in the agricultural sector and
the utilization of technical assistance personnel since 1961. The
study reviewed the manpower requirements up to the year 2000 and
identified a continued shortage of graduate manpower in the sector
due to limited capacity of the Agricultural University. A contin-
ued use of technical assistance personnel would therefore be
required. A program of in-service training was also identified.
The Sokoine University Infrastructural Requirements Study recom-
mends to expand the capacity of the agricultural university to
fulfill the needs of the sector and proposes an investment program
to undertake the expanded program. Expatriate consultants helped
the local consultants in the Sokoine Study (See part II). For
abstracts of the two studies see draft Terminal Report of UTF/
URT/078, Rome 1989.



and some technical assistance in the field of livestock economics.
10/ Since April 1989, only a livestock economist was employed as a
long-term technical assistance staff. This econo.nist was responsible
for the main output of the second phase of the project: the preparation
of a medium-term Livestock Development Program. However, the essential
task of providing on-the job-training for SP staff returning from
overseas fellowship training could not adequately be carried out by a
single technical assistance staff.   Yet, as a result of the overseas
training program, distinctive progress was made towards the strength-
ening of the SP during the two consecutive phases of the project.
6.11 Although the agricultural research component failed to achieve its
main objective (i.e. improvement of research-extension linkages), some
tangible results can be observed in specific topics. Several research
reviews (tobacco, coffee, maize, sorghum/millet, grain legumes) were
prepared and farming system analysis undertaken. These activities
contributed to the collection of data and information that had previous-
ly been scattered among various institutions. Unfortunately, few
practical recommendations to farmers resulted from this work, mainly
because of the lack of communication between the various institutions.
One major output of the research component was the contribution of one
zonal agronomist to the improvement of the vegetative propagation of
cashew, which was the subject of a pilot phase under the IDA-assisted
cashew rehabilitation project. This work should play an important role
in establishing a network of cashew propagation centers under the next
phase of the project, presently under implementation.
7. Proiect Sustainability and Follow-up
7.1   A lot of the progress achieved may be considered sustainable.  The
project correctly concentrated more on long-term institution building
than on immediate outputs. Long-term sustainability will however depend
on whether (1) the staff that so far has been trained will continue to
work in a policy advisory capacity; (2) GOT will maintain an environment
conducive to carrying out such a role; and (3) GOT will ensure the
provision of adequate operating expenses and facilities to the institu-
tions involved. Regarding the first aspect, past performance has been
encouraging. Most staff trained during the 1980s were retained by their
institutions, and the majority of those not retained by them were
transferred or promoted to policy-making positions in Government and
parastatal companies. Regarding the policy environment, in recent years
there has been a marked improvement over the already positive trend that
could be detected from the early 1980s onwards. Given budget limita-
tions, however, the provision of adequate facilities and operating
expenses will continue to remain a constraint if further external
assistance is not secured.
10/   In addition, short-term technical assistance was foreseen for
TCMB's cotton solvent extraction plant and agricultural statis-
tics.



- 10 -
7.2   Specific follow-up requirements differ per institution, depending
mostly on the length of time they have benefitted from external support.
MDB has had the longest assistance and follow-up would therefore be
limited; yet, future assistance will depend to a large extent on the
institutional changes and political reforms to be introduced by the
Goverrment and the new responsibilities those would entail for MDB.  I
the longer term, policy decisions leading to market deregulation should
reduce MDB's central role in formulating agricultural price levels for
Government and change its mandate to assisting MOA in defining new
policy in relation to food marketing, export marketing and market
information under these new conditions.
7.3   PPMB follow-up requirement will be different for each Unit.  Most
staff of the Monitoring Unit have been fully trained, and would at most
require additional on-the-job assistance. Due to late and more unbal-
anced staff allocation, the Project Preparation Unit would require more
technical assistance and some fellowship training. It may be expected
that this assistance will be largely phased out over a two to three year
period. Due to the difficulties in recruiting staff with satisfactory
professional background, a full-scale staff training program is still
required to continue to carry out the Budget and Finance Unit's mandate
and to follow-up on-the-job training. The Sectoral Planning unit will
continue to need technical assistance as well as formal and on-the-job
training program for a period of at least five years. Agricultural
Research is presently being supported by two World Bank projects 11/.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   By agreeing to finance TA IV, the Bank contributed to the long-
term strengthening of key institutions in the agricultural sector. The
responsibility for providing continuity in the technical assistance and
fellowship assistance, essential for a long-term institution building,
was fully assumed by the Bank. To cater for additional responsibilities
vested by the Government on the MDB, PPMB and SP under the Economic and
Social Action program, and to help all three units to consolidate their
development, further assistance is being provided under the Agricultural
Adjustment Program, currently under implementation. This long-term
continuity in assistance has been one of the most important reasons for
the quite significant results that have been achieved by the Bank-
assisted Technical Assistance program.
8.2   Generally speaking, the WB has been adequately flexible in
supporting the implementation of the project. For example, during
implementation of TA III it had already been agreed to allow FAO
accounting and purchasing procedures to be used for the project instead
of the standard Bank procedures, a decision reiterated under TA IV.
Another example is the changes in the terms of reference's for the
research component once it became obvious that the institutional
11/   The National Agricultural and Livestock Research Rehabilitation
Project, and the Tree Crops Development Project (Credits 1970-TA
and 2050-TA, respectively).



constraints would not allow the original project objectives to be
attained; further assistance was organized under a separate project.
The flexible attitude regarding requests for extension on the Bank's
side, and regarding project implementation on FAO's side, ensured good
coordination between the various agencies.
8.3   Eight supervision missions were undertaken during the project
implementation period. Most of the missions were carried out by a
single bank staff and were usually combined with other duties. As the
project was generally considered to be relatively problem free and under
the direct management of FAO, supervision missions were not as frequent
as otherwise would have been the case. This did not negatively affect
project implementation (See also para 10.3).
8.4   The following lessons may be learned from the implementation of TA
IV:
(a)   Institution building and manpower development requires long-
term assistance and continuity in its implementation;
(b)   Government's commitment especially regarding counterpart
staffing, both in terms of overall levels and continuity, is
essential to institution building;
(c)   Overseas fellowship degree training requires, in most cases,
to be followed up by a period of practical on-the-job train-
ing;
(d)   Good working conditions and overseas training made attrac-
tive for national staff to remain in the supported agencies;
and
(e)   Technical assistance and institution building, by their
nature, do not lead themselves easily to quantification of
project objectives and outputs. Yet, an effort should be
made in the appraisal of such projects to ensure the setting
of clear and realistic objectives that are attainable within
the proposed implementation period.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   The project was implemented during a period of serious economic
difficulties and a general searching for new economic policy directions.
This placed great demands on the analytical skills of the institutions
assisted by the project. The results achieved in terms of providing
government with background studies and other policy support has there-
fore been all the more impressive. GOT solicited the preparation of
this information and background studiec, and clearly used them in the
formulation of agricultural policy.
9.2   GOT has significantly contributed to the functioning of the
institutions by providing staff, office space and operational expenses.
The difficulties encountered in attracting qualified staff in PPMB have



- 12 -
been attributable more to a general deterioration of working conditions
in government service and general lack of qualified staff in the
required disciplines than on a lack of GOT commitment to the project.
On the other hand, GOT will have to assume a larget share of operational
and replacement costs in view of the diminishing external support to the
agencies.
9.3   Office space for all three supported agencies is barely adequate
and of generally poor quality. The Government, however, did not follow-
up on the construction of office facilities for them even though funding
was available.
10. Project Relationship and Consulting Services
10.1 TA IV stood in the middle of the continuing dialogue of the WB and
GOT on agricultural policy. This sometimes led to stress in Bank-GOT
relations. The basic commitment of the Bank to longer-term institution
building in the agricultural sector, however, remains strong. Further,
the frequent contacts between GOT staff employed in the three agencies
and Bank staff proved beneficial, not only to the implementation of TA
IV but for the Bank program as a whole.
10.2 FAO-GOT relationship was particularly good in implementing the
PPMB, MDB and SP components, mostly due to the involvement of FAO staff
in previous phases of the various components. FAO technical backstopp-
ing was particularly effective with regard to the MDB and the Project
Preparation and Monitoring units of PPMB. Technical backstopping was
less effective for the BFU of PPMB, mostly due to their highly technical
accounting role.
10.3 The project design envisaged frequent dialogue on project imple-
mentation in the form of annual tri-partite reviews. Such reviews were
organized up to 1987, but smooth project implementation thereafter made
additional reviews unnecessary.
11. Project Documentation & Data
11.1  The Development Credit Agreement and the President's Report were
straightforward and focussed on the right issues, even though they did
not clearly identify project goals. FAO project documents were more
detailed but also often lacked clearly focussed project objectives.
Dartly due to this shortcoming in the basic project documents, supervi-
sion reports rarely attempted to assess project results in those terms.
At the time of PCR preparation only one agency (PPMB) had prepared a
Terminal Report; MDB and SP were expected to do so later on.



- 13 -
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
a.   General
The Government (except where it is indicated below) is
in general agreement with the views expressed by the World
Bank in Part I.
B.   Project Formulation
As pointed out by world Bank, with the exception of the
research component, the project was clearly understood by
all parties as PPMB, MDB and SP components were a
continuation of activities for which the institutional
arrangements and staff were already in place and these
institutions were responsible for the project design. The
institutional building objectives are well known. The
FAO/GOT Plan of Operation clearly maps out the level of
inputs (personnel, equipment, consumables, training and
administrative support) and outputs in terms of staff to be
trained, projects/plans/programmes to be followed
up/formulated etc. The Plan of Operations is continuously
reviewed and revised according to prevailing conditions and
six monthly reports are issued to gauge progress of project
components.
C.   Snecial Studios by PPM1
While the Tanzania High-Level Agricultural Man-Power
Study was done using only local consultants, the Study of
the Sokoine Infrastructural Requirements was completed using
both local and expatriate consultants (Refer to para 6.9 of
Part I)
D.  Borrowers Performance
Refer to para 9.2 Government has encountered problems
in recruiting professional Accountants for PPMB, and not as
generally depicted (in the para) that this was a general
problem for all categories of staff.
B.   Part XX! - Statistical Information
Table 4  : Reworked      - attached
Table 5     Reworked     - attached
Annex 1    Table 1(a)   - attached
Table l(b)   - attached
Table 2(b)   - attached



- 14 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Credits/Loans
loan/Cdlt             Pulose          Date o         Status&amments
Effmt,
First Technical    The project, which was   14-9-76    At Credit closing (31-12-
Assistance       implemented by TIB                1982; 30 months delay)
project'        financed training for              USS 5.2 million was
(Cr. 601 - TA)    389 management staff             disbursed. In general the
as well as for 33                project succeeded in
studies. (US$ 6.0                 attaining its primary
Million)                          objective of preparing a
pipeline of investment
projects in the prod.
sectors.
Second           Largely a follow-up to   10-2-81    At Credit closing (30--88;
Technical        the first project also            36 months delay) SDR 6.7
Assistance       financed studies and              million was disbursed.
Project'.        training and was                  Although slow to start a
(Cr. 1060 - TA)   implemented by TIB.              total of 39 sub-projects
The project focussed on           were financed of which 19
industrial and                    had led to projects at the
manufacturing sectors.            time of PCR preparation
(SDR 8.4 M.)                      (1989)
Third Technical   The objective was to   14-82     At Credit closing (30-688;
Assistance       eliminate bottlenecks              12 months delay) the entire
Project3.        arising from shortage of          Credit had been disbursed.
(Cr. 1206 - TA)   specialized staff in             38 long-term advisors and



- 15 -
existing institutions and            short-term consultancies for
thereby assisting in the             20 GOT in 19 different
rehabilitation of the                locations had been
agricultural sector.                 provided, as well as training
(SDR 10.2 M.)                        (of which 111 fellowships
abroad) and workshops.
National                                     2-8-89
Agricultural and   Implement the first
Lvestock           stage of a long-term
Research           program to strengthen
Rehabilitation     Tanzanian research.
Project            (US$ 8.3 M.)
(Cr 1970-TA)
Cashew and                                   Jan.1990
coconut tree       To achieve long term
crop   project     growth by increasing
(Cr 2050-TA)       the national production
of cashewnuts for
export and the
production of coconuts
for the domestic
vegetable oil rrrket
(USS 25.1 M.)
Sec P2oje Completion Report N- 6732, dated 8 April 1987.
2 See daft Prlet Completio Report, dated 29 August 1989.
3        hjea
SWbet ha_  peenf *eM da  31. MSay M9.



-16-
Table 2     Project Time Table
Item                         Planned date'       Revied date       Actul date
Initiating Project Brief                                           12 July 1983
Government Request for appraisal                                   12 October 1983
Apprsl2                                                            October 1983
Issues Paper                                                       14 Dec. 1983
Post-appraisal                                                     February 1984
Decision Memorandum                                                27 March 1984
Credit negotiations                                                3-6 August 1984
Board approval                                                     9 October 1984
Credit signature                                                   5 February 1985
Credit effectiveness                                               19 April 1985
Project Completion           12 Dec. 1987                          30 June 19903
Credit closing               30 June 1988        30 June 1989'    30 June 1989
As pea Apprasa es2imatem
2  orpprmed with PAO anisance, the MDB and PPMB compontw and, with Bank sianaw, the mearcd opoeent.
No formal appaisal rpofp ws prepard for the proect.
3 -ted wimpeto date of PAO proctus.
As per tekx dated 24 May 1M from Diaor AF6.



17 7
Table 3     Estimated and actual disbursements per year
$4/85 wm W
A. Estima,t d
at appraisal (M SDR)
- Annual                     1.9      4.0      3.3     0.8       0.0      0.0
- Cumulative                  1.9     5.9      9.2     9.9       9.9      9.9
B. Actual (M SDR)
- Annual                     0.0      2.7      4.0     1.7       1.5      0.1
- Cumulative                 0.0      2.7      6.7     8.4       9.9      9.9
C. Actual, cum,
as % of Est,                   0      46       74       85      100      100
Note: Tot" may not add up due to rounding
1e   wuftr 0 WoM Dan Group Thsal y&r (July-June).



- 18 -
Table 4:  Actual and Estimated Pro;ject Costs
('000 U.S.$)
PFov.   Est.    Est.
Calendar year           1985      86     87      88     89     90    TOTAL
A. A1ppraisal Estimate'
1. PPMB               1578.5  2152.7 2117.6    0.0    0.0    0.0 5848.8
2. MDB                 737.2  1559.0 1673.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 3969.2
3. Crop Research       279.5   755.1  840.7  197.2    0.0    0.0 2072.5
TOTAL                 2595.2  4466.8 4631.3  197.2    0.0    0.0 11890.5
B. Atual2
1. PPMIB (078)         806.7  1405.5 1275.1 1400.0 1587.6  750.9 7225.9
2. MDB (083)             -     866.8  828.5  732.9  617.9  388.9 3435.0
3. Research (081)        -      187.1  500.2  518.9  221.8   92.1 1520.1
4. Sectoral Planning (095) -     -       -    622.8  593.2  319.0 1535.0
TOTAL3                806.7  2459.4 2603.8 3274.6 3020.5 1550.9 13715.9
A.  al as Ys of
appraisal estimates                                                105.3
Noac: Th mn ot add Wm dwe tg w_ndi
TotaL estimate, incLuding GOT contribution. Source: President's report.
Including price but not physicaL contingencies.
2IDA contribution only, as no data available on GOT contribution.
Source: FAO, latest Budget Revisions at the time of PCR. See aLso
TabLe 2 of Annex 1.
3Including accrued interest. Disbursements were made in advance to FAO, which
then financed proeict-related expenditures as they came due.



19 -
Table S Project Implementation and Results1
Actual as
Unit/Indicator        Appraisal               Actual               % of
Estimate 2             Estimate           Appraisal
Timing:
Starting date            n/a                   15.4.1985
Completion date        31.12.1987              30.6.1990
Stafflng:
Local:3
PPMB                27                      24                89
MDB                 20                      15                75
Research            n/a                     n/a               n/a
SP                  n/a                     n/a               n/a
International:
PPMB (staff)        14                      15                107
MDB (mm)            150                     249               166
Research (mm)       150                     155               103
SP (mm)             n/a                     68                n/a
Overseas Fellowships (Long-term m/y)
PPMB                9                       30                333
MDB                 10                      10                100
Research            n/a                     n/a               n/a
SP                  n/a                      9                n/a
Other Major Outputs: . See Tables la to ld of Annex 1
1Souuee: Tabls Ia to id of Anac 1.
2As per Peideots RAport. SP wuponent we induded only later so that no sa"mish estimte is ilvea.
Post Gled.



Tablp 6     Status of Major Covenants
Covenant              Description          Deadline          Status
for
compliance
D.C.A. section     GOT should submit to      10/01/85      Completed,
3.05               IDA the results of the                  August 1988
study on the
effectiveness of T.A.
and the use of skilled
agricultural manpower
D.C.A. section     GOT shall (i)             04/01/85      Completed
3.06               commence a study to
design a strategy for
training and
infrastructure
development at the
Sokoine University
(ii) Submit the study     11/01/85     Completed
results to the
Association
D.C.A. section     GOT would ensure          -Mutual
4.01               that the project                        agreement was
accounts are audited                   reached between
by independent                          World Bank,
auditors not later than                GOT, and FAO
six month after the                    that FAO
end of each fiscal year                standard
accounting
procedures
would be used
although this
does not
conform to the
GOT fiscal year



_ 21 -
Table 7: Use of Staff Resources
A.  Suevso   ison*
No.    Month/               Number of    Days          SpecaL   Putomance'
Year                 Persons      In fleld    epresente
1.     01/85_                   1            7           (.)          2
Z.     08/85'                   1            7           (c)          2
3.     11/85'                   1            9            (c)         2
4.     04/86'                   1            4            (a)         2
5.     12/86'                   1            10          (a)          I
6.     05/87'                   1            3           (b)          1
7.     04/884                   1            n/a          (d)         n/a
8.     11/88,                   1            15           (d)         I
9.     01/896                   2            14           (a)(c)      1
B. Staff Inputs
1984   1986   1988   1987   1988   1989   1990   Total
Pr.appraival        2.2                                                   2.2
Appraisal          19.4                                                   19.4
Negotiation         2.9    2.3                                            6.2
Supervision                2.6    6.1    15.1   7.9    8.7    9.9    50.3
Other               4.9    2.2      .0                                    7.2
Total              29.4    7.2    6.1    16.1    7.9    8.7    9.9    84.8
.
1  *&  n E   (b) APmirJ CAM  1     (e) A5      (d) A& A     _1
sw TAm  A TA IV
4     C       P-  _



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 8
Table la . Project Implementation and Results - PPMB
Indicator                      Appraisal                 Actual               Actual as
Estimate                 (FAO)             %  of App. Est.
1. Prgect lEMJing
Starting Date                  1.3.1985                1.3.1985
NTE Date                      31.12.1987              30.6.1990
2. Staffing
National:
Posts established                27 (?)                 40                     148
Posts filled                      27                    24                     89
International(staff)            11+31                      12+32                107
Abroad:
L-ong-term  (m/y)3              9                      30                    333
short-term  (no)4             n/a                      18                    n/a
local: (staff)                   n/a                      5                     n/a
4. Other Major Outputs
Projects prepared              n/a                      30                    n/a
Programmes prep.               n/a                       8                    n/a
Monitoring:
Dev. projects                n/a                      90                    n/a
Parastatals                  n/a                     150                    n/a
Workshops:                     n
Planning econ.               n/a                 &0 partic.                 n/a
Issues in project
planning 6          n/a               7 workshops                  n/a
I Including thmeT UN voluntects.
2 Ten was the bighs staff level (31 Dcewmber 1987). Pcsntly there ae 7 inteational saff of which 2 UNV's.
3 22 national staff benefitted from long-term degree taining of wbich 3 did not return to PPMB but found employment
elewher in GOT.
4 Fellowhp of ks than 6 months.
S Hed at IDM at Morogoro for planning enomiss from MALW paratls and departmentL Dumtion of worshop 3
moths.
6 Mhs wobrksps, which were limited to 30 paicipants, were basically a folow-up to the above _m ed coW us in
project planning and managmn:t.



- 23 
Annex I
Page 2 of 8
Table lb : Project Implementation and Results - MDB
Indicator                        Appraisal            PCR  estimates'             Actual as
Estimate2                                    %  of App. Est.
1. Project 7ming
Starting Date                   05/02/83                 01/01/86
NTE Date                        30/06/883                20/06/90
2. StaMlng
Local Staff
Posts Established            204                     n/a                      n/a
Posts filled                 20                        15                      75
Interational
Long term (m/m)    15(~ 249                                                   166
3. FellowshiRs (m/y)                10                        10                    100
4. Other MaQr Oututs6
. Annual price reviews                                     (a)
. Market research                                          (a)
. Market information                                       (a)
. Farm management/production
economics                                                (a)
N National professionals
training                                                 (b)
(a) otojct   achieved a/or wrious docment ai, aabl    thn tcpiom
(b) Semin06 oU aricultru martinsg hw ben organzed tfa naton  gaff.
1 Sor:c FAO, udget Rvsui  4 an progSm  rport
2 Sourc: Praiat Repot and DCA dated S Februay 16M.
Crdit doming date.
Al the beginning of the project 8 xaJ aff were bsed in Dar Es Salaam ad 6 we  oa feiowshp training Ibhe
i  Pfeddent's fcportnoted that 6 additional national staff s d be mruited during the pres life.
5Fne adhsev  for log t eanmsu a ca   thirty mOnths
4 No quaniflation ot thae objeive in the Print's Repon



- 24 -
Anex I
Page 3 of 8
Table lc      Project Implementation and Results - Crop Research
Indicator                    Appraisal         PCR Estimates'           Actual as
Estimate2              (FAO)           %  of App. Est.
1. PJoLc TminS
Starting Date         05/02/83               27/11/85
NTE Date              30/06/883              30/06/90
2. Staffmn
Local Staff
Posts Established          n/a                   n/a
Posts filled               n/a                   n/a
International
Long term                   150                   1.55                 103
Short term                     0                    3
3, Fellowships                   0                     0
4. Other Major Outmuts4
. Review of zonal research                            (a)
. Recommendations for extension services              (c)
. Technical guidance for research
oriented problems                                  (b)
(a) Completed
(b) PartiaLUy cmpleted
(C) Not completed
Source FAO, budget revision D and progress epons.
2 Sourve President Repon and DCA dated S Febrary 1985.
3 Cedit closing date.
No quantifmtion do these objecti in the Psidaent's Report.



- 25 -
2  n51
Page 4 of 8
Table ld : Project Implementation and Results - Sectoral Planning
Indicator                  Appraisal             Actual            Actual as
Estimate 1            (FAO)           % of App. Est.
1.  ect MMg
Starting Date                                      1.1.1988
NTE Date                                         30.6.1990
2. StaMn
International (mm)                             68                  n/a
3. Fellowships
Long-term 2                                     13                 n/a
short-term  3                                   9                  n/a
4. Other Major- OutDts
Medium-term Livestock
Development Plan                                                n/a
Consultancy to TCMB's Cotton
seed solvent extraction plant                 S                  n/a
1his omponent was not included in the original project design.
2 Dusutioo between 8 and 12 months.
3Durtion aound 3 months.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 8
Table 2a . Project Cost PPMB
('000 US$)
85          86    87    88    89    90   TOTAL
prov.        es.        es.
A. Appraisal Estgmates
Base Cost                        1578.5       1976.5   1777.9                                      5332.9
Price  Cont.                                    176.2339.7                                           515.9
TOTAL                             1578.5  2152.72117.6                                             5848.8
B. BudgetLFAQ1
UTF/URT/078JURT
Original BudfWet1               2032.4    1734.9    742.7                                         4510.0
Budg. Rev. I                    1613.4    1958.7    937.9                                         4510.0
Budg. Rev. I14                   806.7    2152.1   1551.3                                         4510.0
Budg. Rev. Es                    806.7  1405.5 2580.1                                             4760.3
Budg. Rev. IV'                   806.7  1405.5 2354.9 1078.0                                      58383
Budg. Rev. V7                    806.7    1405.5   1275.1   1790.1    560.3                       5838.3
Budg. Rev. V18                   806.7    1405.5   1275.1   1764.9   1225.1                       6477.3
Budg. Rev. VII9                  806.7    1405.5   1275.1   1400.0   1587.6    750.9  7225.9
For latUS budpt rcvision expenditus up 1988 are actual; 1989 prvsona at the time of preparing the PCRM  and
ceiated for the fist six month of 1990.
Source: FAO/Got Proec Aeem ent signed on 20/05/8S for a projet duration of 30 months (up to 30 june 1987).
Revuso  1 wa siped by Got on 22/01/86. Te purpew of this tvio ws to  -phase prec activities witdin the
approved budgt aiLoation
4 Revis.io  II  s sgsed on 13J08//L
Revision DM  prvided an inae of the crent budgept al tios by US$ 250.234. It ma sped o  12 May 1987.
RevWo IV proWded for an etunsion of the projec up to december 1988  d an aodditinal mount of USS L078,020.
Ic was signd an November 1987.
7 ReVioa V pided for an bin    of the budget by USS 184,00 and an exten  ot the pioect by six aoth up
to deamber 19G&  I wa iaped by april 196L
8 Rvini VI proWed for an extensin of the projec  fom july to december 1989 with an  brea  ailoaio  of USS
639,040. It ws appsvd by FAO by march 1989.
Budget revuico  Vll proded additionl funds to mer an estension of the praject up to 30.690. Mem additional funds
required mm cwd  fron TA m (USS 526,580), from unuuihzed funds fho  TA IV (US$ 2.368) and from prect
MIP/URT/061/URT (USS 19,S92). It was appoved by FAO by decmber 1989.



- 27 -
Annex I
Table 2b  : Project Cost MB                                                                               Page 6 of 8
('000 USS)
85          86    87    88    89    90   TOTAL
prov.         es           es.
A. Appraisal Estimates'
Base  Cost                         737.2       1431.3   1403.1                                       3571.6
Price  Cont.2                                   127.7    269.9                                        397.6
TOTAL                              737.2  1559.0 1673.0                                              39692
B. Budget EAQo
UTF/TRT/083/URT
Original Budget4                              1177   1112.0                                        2289.0
Budg. Rev. 15                                  866.8    968.4    878.0                             2713.4
Budg. Rev. 26                                  866.8  828.5  733.4  597.7                          3026.4
Budg. Rev. 37                                  866.8  828.5  732.9  588.6  167.0 3183.8
Budg. Rev. 48                                  866.8  828.5  732.9  617.9  388.6 3434.7
1 Source : Peesident' Report
2 Lcal      a t 12 % annually; foreip  ehange cog* at 85% an scond year and 9% thereafter.
3For late  budget rvjon. cpendituars up 1988 are actual; 1989 provisional at the time of prepmring the PCR; and
csimated for the GM as month of 1990.
4Sourc : PAO/Got Prjct ASmemt signed on 04/02/86 for a prect duntio of 24 mth.
Revision 1 inlude.: extnsion of the prje  from 31 de.8  to 31 dec.  8; Uan   hem   of USs 307.S47 of the
orinal budgt and atioal USS 116,820 alloted from  TA m  (CR. lOIS TA and UYF/URT/057/URT). Reed
pject documwAt we signed in ow. 1987.
6 Budget Revision 2 provie for an extenson of the pject thug   o June 1989 and an incae  of USS 31.,010 to
the budget allotin 'De budget rvion ws sigcd an March 1989.
Revio  3 pfovdes for an extnin of the proect until the 31 Au t 1990 and an inr             of USS IS7,427 to the
budget alltio   provd  by TA m  (Cr. 101S-TA and EIF/URT/I57/URT)
B Revi   4 p  Wdes fot an eztensio  of the project tr i  to 31 deamber 1990 and for an nca  of USS 250,717
the ocumrnt budget allocaon. hse additioal funds mm partly awed fro  TA m  (US$16185).



28 -
Anex1 I
Page 7 of 8
Table 2c : Project Cost Crop Research
('000 US$)
85          86    87    88    89    90   TOTAL
prov.         es.          es.
A. Appraisal Estimates
Base  Cost                         279.5        691.0    701.0    153.4                              1824.9
Price Cont.                                       64.1    139.7        43.8                           247.6
TOTAL                              279.5   755.1  840.7  197.2                                       2072.5
B. Bue EAO'
UTF/URT/081/URT
Original Budget2                               632.8    795.2                                       1428.0
Budg. Rev. B3                                  187.1    662.4    578.5                              1428.0
Budg. Rev. C                                   187.1  500.2  565.6  175.1                          1428.1
Budg. Rev. D'                                  187.1    500.2    518.9    221.8             92.1   1520.1
For latest budget revion, expenditures up 1988 are actual; 1989 proional at the time of preparing the PCRi and
estimated for the first six month of 1990.
2 Source: FAO/Got Project Agment sined on 27/11/8S for a project duration of 30 montbL
No riion A was available. Revision B prvided for an extension of the projct until the end of 1988. It w   signed
oan 14/07/87.
4Rvson C poided for an xtension of the project through to Dember 1989. It was ubmitted to FAO in noenmber
1988.
S Revso D provides for an extension of the project tough to June 90 with an dnas of USS 92,147 of which
2,474 wer provided from unallocated funds fhom FAO project UI/URT/07S/URT.



- 29 -
Annex 1
Table 2d         Project Cost Sectoral Planning                                                 Page 8 of 8
('000 USS)
85         86    87    88    89    90   TOTAL
prov.       es*         es.
A. Appraisal EstiMates
Base Cost                         -
Price Cont.
TOTAL                             - 
B. Budezet FAOi'
'UTF/URT/081/ URT
Original Budget'                                            1024.9                       1024.9
Budg. Rev. A3                                                776.9    248.0              1024.9
Budg. Rev. B4                                                662.9   673.3               1296.1
Budg. Rev. C-                                                662.8   703.2               1326.0
Budg. Rev. D6                                                622.8   593.2   319.0  1535.0
Por latest budget reviion, epeditm up 198 an au; 1989 provol  the tme of pgpai  th PCt   ad
esumted for the first six emtb of 1990.
2 Souee: FAO/ Got Pect Aegmnt siped on 2S/10/87 for a p*oct dwation d 12 mooth.
3Rcvio A povde for an eoenrn of the poet life thugb gmolwn1989. It we  ceaed by FAO oan 26/0S/1L
4 Rvim  B provided for an inbe  of the u     budget aileon by USS 27000 and for an aemos  a( projct
life up to decmber 1989.
Rvio C prvdd for an nuea  of the budet alkeLto by USS 29,2
6 Rvkio  D prvde  for an e_enso  of the poet thro   to jame im  am aMdI1 ANds  mwd patI by
unutiid Nds frxi TA m (US$ 209,t0)0



IM[PJ 22 1_9
,,+N<<)Bukobo                       Musom                                                                                                                              -J                1iii|
RWANDA                        /                                                            /                                                                                                                          'N
TAN/ANIA
Mwania                      - t4W4--0~'   ('  ~    I)                                             KENYA                                  I
I 1 BURUNDI  Nyakanz I                                                                                                                                                                              7Mosl.ii                   4
I I ' t / \E \ ~~~k    _ - yag
a-                                                                                                To M w ......, ' bas-
Tang   d, Wete                              TANZANIA
Island ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
/Z11,z4r, Island                                       3ME
A    {   /  \  Z          J Manyoni~~~~~~~~~X<    /      I                        f                   i s /~~~~ 7An,i 54r
%                                  W\I~~~~~~~~~~NAN ROADS
!    /     . r. r  DAR ES SAlAAM       SCCNDAR ROADS
Morogoro                                            R4+--~    AILWAY'S
)  M \   hSkuml<Of !-9 ! --  <            /                                         RIvERS
\Z\A*IRE                                    ti  2            !          0 1x! ;    ing)  \g5Pt  /  /~~'                       ~           5                                            REGION CAPITA, S
I o,fa                            NATIONAL CAPIAL
DISTRICI, BOUNDARIES
Ar-GION BOU NDARIES
_ < 2 Mb                                                           /                                                                      i  \ \ - - INTERNATIONA BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                                .                        'JIN'              ;                                                                       50      0     I      2
wepnsveeePoPecdPz  \  )   /:'\   _o   />    <_R<rz  ~JUMtwY1ara
.eed e;.d 5 ,il,wU80 i.c / ......... \\ /WSongea   r   -
esVnd  - d,.-    rd- lasv  7. 
Poolo' lhrWi Ideoetold8e \\ / ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!.N,'                                                                    JFr ,,-MILES                           O      50          100
wa,  ..v.d. t > MOZAMBIQUE tOMETEres O 50 ,00 150 200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JLhTERS0                                                                        0      oo     50    20
JULY 1991



