Document of
The World Bank                             1 2 V
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3731-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 9.9 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AUGUST 16, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Tanzania shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00            =      US$ 0.082
US$ 1.00                    TSh 17.00 1
US$ 1.00            =      SDR .986845
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BFU                Budget and Finance Unit, Project
Preparation and Monitoring Bureau,
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development
FAO        -       Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP        -       Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
ICB        -       International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -      Local Competitive Bidding
MDB        -       Marketing Development Bureau, Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development
MOA        -       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development
NMC        -       National Milling Corporation
PPMB       -       Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau,
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30
1/   As the Tanzania shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket
of the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US dollar/
Tanzania shilling exchange rate is subject to change. A rate of US$
1.00 = TSh 12.20, which was the level set in June 1983, was used for
appraisal of this project. Although the exchange rate was adjusted in
June 1984 to US$1.00-TSh 17.00, there essentially is no impact on the
project cost because most expenditures will be in foreign exchange.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:                 SDR 9.9 million (US$ 10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Objectives
and Description:       The Project would finance technical assistance
requirements in the Marketing Development Bureau
(MDB), the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
(PPMB) and the Research Department of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock Development. It also
would finance special studies on the effectiveness
of technical assistance to agriculture and on the
use of skilled Tanzanian manpower and on the design
of a strategy for training and infrastructure
development for the Sokoine University of
Agriculture. The technical assistance would assist
the Government in its program to review and revise
policies and institutional arrangements in the
agricultural sector by providing the capacity to
analyze policy alternatives and to monitor and
supervise parastatal performance. It also would
begin to coordinate the fragmented agricultural
research system.
Risks:                  There is a risk of delayed implementation due to
late recruitment of technical assistance personnel.
However, this risk would be reduced by prior agree-
ment on terms of reference and the use of the Food
and Agriculture Association to continue implementing
the MDB and PPMB components.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign        Total 1/
----------USATmilion…---
MDB                                   0.44          3.13          3.57
PPMB                                  0.82          4.51          5.33
Research                              0.40          1.43          1.83
Base Cost                         1.66          9.J7
Contingencies:
Price                               0.22          0.94          1.16
Physical                            0.03          0.02          0.05
Total Financing Required          1.91         10.03         11.94
1/ Net of taxeq and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
% of
Total
Local        Foreign       Total        Financing
----US$ million-----------------
II)A Credit                    -           10.00        10.00           84
Goverr,ment of Tanzania       1.91          0.03         1.94           16
Total                       1.91         10.03        11.94          100
Estimated
I)isbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year              1985          1986         1987           1988
---------------US$ millioin----------------
AInnual                       1.9           4.0          3.3            0.8
Cumulative                    1.9           5.9          9.2           10.0
Economic
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
St;aff Appraisal
Report;                    No separate staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared for this project.
Map:                         I:BRD 2802R3



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 9.9 million (US$10.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fourth
Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA), based on
the work of an economic mission which visited the country in September/
October 1983, was issued in August 1984. A summary of social and ecohomic
data is in Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest
countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture
and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial base,
which accounted for less than 5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and a
very small number of educated and trained personnel. For the first six
years after Independence, the Government's development objectives resembled
those of many other less developed countries, stressing growth in per
capita income and national self-sufficiency in skilled manpower, based on
market forces and capital intensive agricultural projects. This approach
had a number of drawbacks, such as high investment costs in the
agricultural sector. It led, in the Government's view, to unacceptable
economic and social conditions, such as widening income differentials and
unequal opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response to
this situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in 1967.
The new priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy
statements, were directed toward establishing a socialist society, with
emphasis on broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development
efforts, and mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
guidance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the
late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and
finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of
ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of government (1972),
and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).



4.         Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
chaniges during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
sDcial welfare and ini macroeconomic performance. Since independence,
primary school enrollmnent inicreased by more thani 50%, life expectancy rose
by almost 5 years, and access to safe water increased in both the rural and
u:ban areas.  GDP grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment
averaged 24% of GDP from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization
improved with recurrent revenues risirng as a proportion of GDP from 15% in
1967/68 to 19% in the mid-1970s. However, the productive sectors grew
slowly and the rate of return on inew i nvestments (which were concentrated
on the industry and transport sectors) was poor.  Perhaps the principal
disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector of the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973.  Growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income
differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress toward the Africanization of
key posts in the ecoinomy, but large gaps in manpower requirements
remained. Deperndence on foreign aid to finance both domestic investment
and the widening balance of payments gap also increased.  By 1973, the
issues that were to be so important for Tanzaniia throughout the later 1970s
and early 1980s were becoming clear. How quickly could a country with
limmited trained personInel develop a strong and efficient centrally
acdm.nistered econlomy?  How lonig could the country afford the costs, in
terms of efficiency and incentives, often resulting from the Government's
emphasis on equity? What could be dorne to improve the growth rate of the
monetized, productive sectors?
5.         The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania, which had a
detrimental effect on agricultural production. Agricultural productioil
also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time
(cecentralization and villagizationl), aind foodgrain productionl was
reduced.  The Governmeint was forced into the world market, making large
purchases of foodgrains for cash. Export crop production also fell during
this period and the barter terms of trade dropped by about one-third during
th.ese two years. As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118
million in 1973 to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestic-
ally, the recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing
rose from TSh 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh 1,061 million in 1975/76.
6.         The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and received some assistance from the IMF
and a program loan from the Bank Group.  Under the Government program,
import levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government devel-
opmenit expenditures were redirected towards The productive sectors, and the
Tanzaniani shilling was deva-Lued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substan-tially increased and, at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops suchI as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tioin to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
inicrease food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC, and required the banking
system to extend large amourLts of credit to NMC.  Aside from the devalua-



- 3 -
tion, little scope was given to market forces ar.d Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and goverament controls.  The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted -- declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointirng growth in the monetized and produc-
tive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance, and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import conitrols were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979, and the flooding and drought in
different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit.
The Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first
time since Independence.  The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% and revenues improved by only 10%
from 1977/78 to 1978/79. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh 600 millioni in 1977/78 to more than TSh
3,000 million irn 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in money
supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        The economy became troubled by major problems of falling
production in agriculture and indlustry and declining factor productivity.
In the mid 1970s, average GDP and per capita income growth rates were
similar to those of other Sub-Saharan African countries. The average GDP
grew by 5.2% per annum between 1970 and 1978.  With population growing at
3.3% annually, per capita GDP increased at an average rate of about 2%
annually.  Between 1978 and 1980, growth in aggregate output slowed to 3.3%
per annum.  In 1981,falling agricultural ard industrial production caused
GDP to decline by 1.7%; the rate of decline accelerated to 3.2% in 1982.
Output in subsistence agriculture and manufacturing, which had experienced
high growth rates of 6% to 7% per annum before 1978, fell by 8% and 16.6%
per annum respectively over the next four years, while output in the
services sector continued to grow steadily. The services sector, which
accounted for only 9% of value added in 1966, now accounts for more than
25%.  Output in the services sector reflects remuneration rather than
output, and trends in subsistence production are at best guess-estimates
with potentially large margins of error. For these reasons, trends in the
rate of growth of GDP are in some doubt, but the shift away from a monetary
to ani informal economy is confirmed by the declinie in the share of output
marketed through official channels.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
Tiot been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
saviings or in the return on investmernts.  Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20-40% of domestic investment. However, the depen-
deInce oIn foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978.  The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975.



- 4 -
10.         Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 83% of total employment, 45% of GDP, and 80% of exports.
The long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept
pace with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years
as the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s)
has been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by
the limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of
rural development has continuously been highlighted in Government state-
meats, including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not
always been reflected in the! allocation of resources to the agricultural
seztor or in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction
of the Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to
emphasize the transformation of the institutional structure of rural devel-
opment (through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement
in the sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production
directly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly,
without careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the
Government's willingness to use incentives to influence the pattern of
agricultural production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched
rather thinly throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role
assigned to the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for
po:Licy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail,
an(1 water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor
mai,-ntenance, and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottle-
necks, and external shocks described above have all contributed to the
severe deterioration in the balance of payments since 1979. By 1982,
export volumes had fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the
mid-1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined
by 40% since the coffee boom of 1977 due to a sharp increase in import
costs, especially for petroleum, at a time when the overall level of export
prices has been rising very slowly. Owing to these adverse developments,
the purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1982 was more than one-third
lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. The basic
adjustment to the high current account deficits following the second oil
shock was through a cutback in imports. By 1982, import volumes were 32%
below the level in 1978 and 24% below the level prevailing in the early
1970's. Aid inflows have been maintained, but they increasingly have been
tied to specific projects. Currently, food, oil and debt service account
for almost all of export earnings resulting in a severe shortage of foreign



- 5 -
exchange for many categories of imports for which aid resources are not
available. As a result, Tanzania has built up almost US$400 million of
import arrears, and has drawn down all of its reserves.
12.       Given the poor prospects for international commodity prices as
well as the limited scope for further external aid, there is little
immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of payments. This
continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably having a
debilitating effect on the econorny, with lower imports reducing production
and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls in exports
and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be difficult to
break unless there is a substantial injection of foreign exchange and major
improvements in producer incentives, parastatal operations, import alloca-
tions, promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government
planning and budgeting.
13.       In spite of intensive discussions with the Government in 1980 and
1981, it was difficult to focus on specific corrective measures needed for
structural adjustment. In the absence of a comprehensive reform program,
an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit 1133-TA) in the amount of
US$50 million was negotiated in March 1981 to support a limited but sharply
defined set of measures intended to assist the Government in arresting the
decline in earnings from the country's major export crops. During
negotiations of this Program Credit, agreement was also reached on a
Memorandum of Understanding on Follow-Up Measures. These included more
restraint and selectivity in the public investment program, more emphasis
in the recurrent budget on the operations and maintenance needs of the
economy, improved foreign exchange budgeting, reexamination of the roles
(particularly purchasing mandates) of the State-owned crop authorities,
introduction of more payment-by-results schemes in industry, and review of
subsidy and cost recovery arrangements in the public sector. A special
agricultural account was established to channel imports into agriculture
with suprisingly little friction among the institutions concerned, although
the Government was not able to meet its own obligation to contribute US$50
million to the account. The Government also agreed that an independent
Advisory Group would be established to assist in preparing a comprehensive
program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. A large number of its recommendations were adopted
by the Government and incorporated into a Structural Adjustment Program,
which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of important
initiatives and proposals. The development budget was substantially cut
back in 1982/83 for the second year in a row to release resources for the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy. Agricultural producer
prices were adjusted in 1983/84 and in 1984/85, which initially maintained
them broadly constant in real terms and more recently increased them in
real terms. The Government also announced its intention to relax



-6-
restrictions on interregional trade. It also opened up the marketing of
somae crops (mainly minor grains such as millet) to anyone interested in
coTnduacting such trade.
15.       In the 1984/85 budget submitted to Parliament on June 14, 1984,
the Government announced a series of new measures. The most recent
measures include a major exchange rate adjustment (36%), the second in two
years, an increase in agricultural producer prices of between 40% and 60%,
and an initiation of a program to improve the efficiency and productivity
of agricultural parastatals. Preliminary analysis shows that these pricing
changes are sufficient to allow agricultural parastatals as a group to
break even while resulting in an increase of 5% in real incomes of export
crop producers. There is a serious attempt to make the NMC, the parastatal
responsible for grain marketing, financially viable through an increase in
the consumer price for maize and a decontrol of the price of maize flour
(sembe). These measures together should eliminate the need for budgetary
transfers to the parastatals, which had amounted to nearly 11% of total
recurrent expenditures in 1982/83. The measures also include politically
sersitive actions such as thes removal of subsidies on fertilizer and
insecticides and the introduction of fees for secondary schools to cover a
part of the costs.
16.       The 1984/85 budget is thus bold in its attempts to reverse
previous economic policies. However, the success of the budget in meeting
its financial targets will, t-o a large extent, be contingent on
availability of additional external assistance. Similarly, the supply
response in agriculture to the improved incentives is likely to be weak in
the absence of an increase inI import capability that could finance
incentive goods and agricultural inputs.
17.       Tanzania has not had access to IMF facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Despite four rounds of discussions (in May, June,
August, and October 1982), no agreement could be reached on a reform
program. Following the announcement of devaluation and other new measures
on June 14, 1984 (para. 15), the Government and the IMF have resumed
discussions. Senior officials of the Ministry of Finance visited
Washington in early July to elaborate upon the basis for the new measures.
An IMF mission is scheduled to visit Tanzania in early September to discuss
the outline of a possible IMF program.
18.       Even with a much imiproved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. A halt in the decline in per capita GDP
wilL require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes.  To avoid
this situation, continued emphasis will be needed on export performance and



- 7 -
concerted effort will be required to improve the level of capacity utiliza-
tion and efficiency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without
jeopardizing vital food production.
19.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this assistance include deferred
payment arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying
countries, additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and
multilateral sources, and continued movement toward non-project
assistance.
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratios have historically been less than 10%. In recent years,
there has been somewhat greater reliance on non-concessional borrowing.
This borrowing, combined with falling exports, has resulted in an increase
in the debt service ratio, which was estimated in 1982 to have been about
20%. The Bank Group is assisting the Government in carrying out a complete
review of its external debt and improving its debt management system. This
effort, which is still underway, has revealed that the reports on publicly
guaranteed debt are incomplete and projected debt service payments may rise
sharply as a number of old loans begin to fall due and coverage of the debt
information improves. Unless Tanzania's poor export performance is re-
versed, the debt service ratio over the next several years may be signifi-
cantly higher than indicated above. Based on existing data, the Bank Group
held 38% of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed in 1982
(IBRD 13%) and obligations to the Bank Group accounted for 14% of total
debt service.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation in 1962. Beginning with an IDA credit for education in
1963, 57 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms,
amounting to US$1,106.5 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through
their association in the East African Community. IFC investments in
Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to



- 8 -
the Government. Another IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap
marnufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978
and1 an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved in May 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits, IFC investments to Tanzania, and the East African Community
organizatiorns as of March 31, 1984.
22.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i) agri-
cuLture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv) educa-
tion and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focussed primarily on the rehabilitation and use of existing productive
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy.  Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development, and foreign exchange budgets; have
been centered on already experienced or financially healthy institutions;
and have been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general
supply difficulties in the economy. They have included considerable tech-
nical assistance and training for better maintenanice and use of existing
capital facilities and more effective resource allocation in the economy.
Lending in FY82 through FY84 along these lines included a second petroleum
exploration project, a third technical assistance project (focussed on key
manpower gaps in the agricultural sector), a rehabilitation project for the
Dar-es-Salaam sewerage system, a coal enginieering project, and a hydro-
electric power project.
23.,      A small number of other projects may be proposed in the agri-
cuLtural, energy, and transport sectors during the next three years. In
addition to the proposed fourth technical assistance project, a rehabilita-
tion program for the port of Dar-es-Salaam has been appraised. A sixth
highway project, involving mainly maintenance and reconstruction
(particularly sections of the Tanzania-Zambia highway), and an agriculture
rehabilitatioin project are also under preparation. However, the design and
implementation of viable projects in the productive sectors of the economy,
especially agriculture and industry, will depend on Tanzania's ability to
forrmulate and implement a wide ranging economic adjustment program.
24.       In addition to firnancing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance oIn three occasions in support of
Government efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties.  The
first such Credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most
recent, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April
1931.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last five years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for such purchases have been adequate.  External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered by project budgets; however, it is imipossible to cushion projects
cornpletely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the



- 9 -
economic crisis. Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58.5 million in
FY78 to US$115.9 million in FY82 and then declined to US$71.2 million in
FY84. A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that Tanzanian disbursements have been about average for the
Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commitments from 25.5% in
FY78 to 21.4% in FY84 (compared with 24.5% and 23.0% in the same years for
the Region as a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar-es-Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects experiencing persistent implementation problems. Intensive
supervision and, in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Credit
1370-TA), timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some
remedial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on
implementation have been most severe, there have been improvements in some
projects. However, considerable work remains to be done in improving
project implementation and disbursements. The Country Implementation
Review, scheduled for May 1984, had to be deferred because of changes in
the Government, but discussions were held on further rationalization of the
project portfolio. The next Review is planned for November-December 1984.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Background
27.       Agriculture is the largest single sector of the Tanzanian
economy, providing 40-45% of Gross National Product (GNP) and 80-85% of
both exports and of employment. Smallholder production, involving about 13
million people settled in 8,000 villages, dominates the sector. Private
estate production of tea and sisaL is important, while public estates
contribute significantly to rice, wheat, sisal and tea production and
dominate sugar production.
28,       Tanzanian agriculture has been influenced by several factors.
Some agricultural areas have relatively low rainfall and are subject to
drought. However, as overall population density is low (19 inhabitants per
sq km), the -utilization of good agricultural land is low even in areas of
reliable rainfall (about 20% of cultivatable land is farmed). In the
decades following Independence, smallholder export crops expanded rapidly
as the volume of marketed coffee, cotton, cashew nuts and tobacco doubled
between 1960/61 and 1966/67; and between 1966/67 and 1973/74 cashew nuts
and tobacco marketings doubled again. Self-sufficiency in foodgrain
production was maintained through the 1960s. Significant tractorized
farming emerged in this period in the northern and the Mbeya-Iringa regions
of the country. In 1971/72, the tractor fleet was estimated at 17,000
units, primarily in private hands. But the fleet has dwindled to some



- 10 -
5,000 units since new tractors were allocated to villages and the public
sector and spares were not imported in sufficient quantity to maintain
existing tractors.  Oxen are also used but, in part due to the tsetse fly,
the predominant method of soil cultivation continues to be the hoe.
29.       Severe and rapid institutional change occurred in the 1970s,
including the collection into villages of the previously dispersed
population, the removal of local control followed by the dissolution of
cooperative societies, and the closing of private retail shops. These
changes effectively: (i) altered the pattern of land ownership and use,
(ii) neutralized the input and consumer goods distribution system, and
(iii) closed down established crop marketing channels.  In addition, many
private estates were either abandoned or taken over by the State.  These
changes contributed to the end of the previous period of rapidly expanding
agricultural production.
30.       These changes hacl a detrimental effect on agriculture when key
agricultural staff were drafted to village manager positions or shifted to
rural development activities under the control of the Prime Minister's
OEfice (PMO).  Other policy deficiencies also contributed to the decline in
growth.  The agricultural sector was not allocated sufficient foreign
e.xchange to cover the imported inputs needed to maintain production and
agricultural producer prices, well below border prices, were inadequate to
provide production incentives. In addition to these domestic policies,
Tanzanian agriculture was further buffetted by exogenous factors such as
the Ugandan War, the 1973/74 drought, declining real export prices, and
recently, the infestation of the Larger Grain Borer into farm level grain
stocks.  All of these phenomena contributed to the general reduction in
marketed agricultural production during the last decade.  Tea was the only
commodity which experienced consistent production and export increases.
The Agricultural Sector Report (see para. 16) described the relative
iraportance of these different factors, and how they contributed to the
"multiple binding constraints  facing the smallholder.
3..       The decline in the volume of agricultural exports was accompanied
by a similar decline in real prices. For most agricultural exports, real
prices (deflated by the index of manufactured exports) peaked in 1974 (in
1978 for beverage crops). Since then, they declinied 25% to 75% from their
peak. The declines in export volume and real prices have been catastrophic
for the Tanzanian balance of payments, to the extent that over half of
Tanzania's inputs are nIow financed from aid or suppliers credits.
32.       The above problems should not detract from the fact that Tanzania
has abundant productive land producing a diverse set of export crops and
that: in the initial years of Independence the country achieved production
growth rates for six of its seven major export crops in excess of those
achieved for food crops during the height (1965-1970) of the Green
Revolution in Asia (a benchmnark for agricultural growth).  Between 1961
(the year of Tanzania's Independence) and 1966, the production of tea,
tobacco, cotton, coffee, pyretheum and cashew nuts grew at annual rates
ranging from 8% for tea to 23% for cashew nuts. (In contrast, rice
production in the Green Revolution adopting countries grew at only 5%, 6%,



- 11 -
8% and 11% annually between 1965 and 1970 in the Philippines, India,
Indonesia and Pakistan respectively.) Clearly Tanzania has the agronomic
potential to reverse the current decline in exports (paras. 30 and 31) if a
conducive policy environment exists.
33.       The Government recently recognized several policy issues related
to the agricultural sector and has implemented related policy decisions.
These decisions include: (i) reduction of barriers to internal grain trade;
(ii) reintroduction of Agricultural Marketing Cooperatives; (iii) reduction
in NMC's monopoly; (iv) increases in agricultural prices; (v) partial
abandonment of panterritorial pricing; (vi) limitation of parastatal
overdrafts; (vii) establishment of agricultural priorities for transport
facilities and spares; and (viii) introduction of export earnings retention
accounts. In addition, the Government has announced its intention that
retail prices on most products should allow full cost recovery; only maize
flour and cassava flour will be subsidized, and at levels to allow NMC to
cover its full costs. It also has decided that trade in grain should be
allowed to operate unhindered (para. 35).
Marketing and Pricing Policy
34.       Government policy has clearly promoted a state monopoly in input
supply and output marketing. The only official exception to this policy
has been the marketing of perishable horticultural products, where private
traders are allowed to operate openly and freely. However, a more
significant but unintentional exception has been in the marketing of food-
grains where private trade, although illegal, operates openly at the
retail level, much of it in municipally licensed and regulated markets.
Indeed municipalities have periodically imposed their own retail price
control, often in multiples of the official retail price for NMC rice and
maize meal. The Governrment's attitude to this open but illegal marketing
has been ambivalent. Vigorous attempts to suppress the trade have been
periodically made, including road barriers and arbitrary confiscation or
taxing of grain shipments. But when food shortages have become critical,
all barriers have been removed and the illegal trade in foodgrain has been
allowed to meet the emergency.
35.       In an attempt to improve the present inefficiencies in production
and marketing of agricultural commodities, the Government is in the process
of reintroducing cooperatives. These cooperatives will take over from
parastatals the responsibility for and the costs of primary crop
procurement. The Government expects cooperatives to have a local monopsony
of grain destined for NMC. Acting alone, the cooperatives would not
provide the multiple channel marketing system necessary to improve public
sector efficiency. Thus, the Government recently decided to issue permits
to transport grains without restrictions. This is seen as crucial to the
reduction in the role of the NMC and to the improvement of grain supply to
urban consumers.



- 12 -
36.       The existence of the illegal or "parallel" market  and the prices
paid has been documented by the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB). The
MDB is located in the Planning Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livrestock Development (MOA) and is the major unit respoinsible for
agricultural policy analysis. Currently, it monitors prices in municipal
markets  and publishes a Monthly Marketing Bulletin of prevailing prices.
Farm level prices have been collected for twc years as part of the
monitoring and evaluation system of the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project supported by the Association (Credit 803-TA). These price reports
show that parallel market prices range from 200% to 1,000% of official NMC
retail prices.
37,       Official producer prices for grains and export crops are
initially recommended by MDB, on the basis of a far ranging review of world
prices, production costs, possible cross-elasticities, effects on consumers
and consumer prices, parastatal losses, etc. These recommendations are
transmitted through the MOA to an inter-Ministerial Committee and
eventually to the Economic Committee of the Cabinet, which actually sets
the prices. Current attempts to rationalize official prices, without
actually meeting prices on the parallel market, have had limited success.
The MDB has documented the price differences and has demonstrated the
tradie-offs between different levels of producer prices, parastatal losses
and exchange rates. This work has contributed to Goverrnment decisions to
increase the real price of food crops in 1983/84 and 1984/85 (by 5% and 40%
respectively), to increase the real price of export crops in 1984/85 (by
5%'), and to devalue the shilliing in June 1983 (by 25%). The recent (July
1984) budget achieved a major rationalizatioin of prices with Government
assuming responsibility for TSh 2.5 billion of long term parastatal debt,
rernoval of food and input subsidies, a modest increase in the basic wage,
and a devaluation of 36% which will allow the agricultural parastatals as a
whole to break-even. MDB contributed significantly to advising the
Government as to the effects and required magnitude of these price
changes.
Parastatal Performance
38.       The Government exercises monopoly conitrol over input supply and
product marketing through a series of state owned companies, or
parastatals. The policy framework within which these organizations
operate, coupled with inappropriate operational decisions, have contributed
to their inefficiency. The parastatals are further handicapped by
inadequate capitalization. They frequently were established at short
notice to replace or assume the functions of existing institutions.  Some
experienced major changes in operational scope. Normally, parastatals are
subject to tightly regulated salary structures and employment practices,
wit:h top management appointments as part of the patronage system. Until
recently, parastatals have enjoyed unrestricted overdraft limits with the
(parastatal) National Bank of Commerce. The result was a rapid increase in
parastatal overdrafts from TSh 2.1 billion in 1978 (June 30) to TSh 4.6
bi;lion in 1981 (June 30).  The very substantial expansion in the money
supply needed to fund these overdrafts has been a major contributing factor
to inflation.



- 13 -
39.       By Act of Parliament, the parastatals are required to follow
"good commercial practice" and, at a minimum, to recover cost.  Although
not always reflected in the prices at which the parastatals are required to
trade, there is now a strong Government effort to restore their financial
viability.  In the last four years, the Project Preparation and Monitoring
Bureau (PPMB), with support from the Association under the Grain Storage
and Milling Project (Credit 1015--TA), has set up a system to monitor the
financial performance of the agricultural parastatals. The PPMB is located
in the Planning Division of the MOA and has the major responsibility for
financial and management monitoring of agricultural parastatals. The MOA
has supported this monitoring system by holding up the disbursement of
Government subsidies and budgetary allocations pending completion of
accounting and other information needed for the PPMB monitoring system.
Prior to PPMB's involvement there was little effort to control parastatal
expenditures which were financed through bank overdraft facilities (para.
38). However, the monitoring effort has generated financial management
information enabling the managers to exercise better financial control. In
1983 the total of nominal overdrafts by parastatals experienced its first
decline.
40.       In 1983, the Government implemented a Commission on Cost Cutting
in the Parastatals. PPMB was again very valuable in generating the
objective data and studies used by the Commission. Because of the efforts
of the PPMB, more complete information was available to the Commission on
the finances of the agricultural parastatals than for many other sectors.
Support Services
41.       Research.  Donors have actively supported research through the
Uyole Agricultural Research Center in the southern highlands and a small
maize breeding program. But beyond this, donor assistance for research has
been intermittent. A research project was proposed for appraisal by the
Association in 1980 but withdrawn from the lending program following a
Government decision to organize separate livestock and cropping parastatals
to conduct research. Five separate institutions currently have
responsibility for research, none of which are institutionally linked with
extension. The research system has been neglected and has deteriorated for
the past decade as Government research allocations have not kept pace with
inflation and the limited number of research staff have not been adequately
trained. There are now signs that the Government shares the Association's
concern that the fragmented agricultural research (livestock and crop)
should be better coordinated and funded from a single budget. The decision
to establish an agricultural university with research linkages modelled on
the U.S. Land Grant College or an Indian Agricultural University (para. 43)
is indicative of this concern. In addition, the Government has assembled a
Task Force under the direction of the Director of Research, MOA, to study
the reorganization and consolita-tion of the research system. Two research
specialists from PPMB are assisting the Task Force, and the Director of
Research has requested the Association to participate in a technical review
of the Task Force report, which was recently completed. This could lead to
the preparation of a project suitable for Bank-Group financing.



- 14 -
42.       Extension, like research, has suffered from insufficient
operating funds with the result that exteinsion visits have been curtailed.
However, institutional deficiencies have been the primary problems in
extension. The 1972 decentralization policy placed MOA field staff under
the regional administration of the PMO and reduced communications with the
MOA, exacerbating the weak linkage between research and extension.  The
extension funiction was further dispersed in 1976 when newly created crop
authorities assumed some extension activities. The Government has now
ackn.owledged that extension is ineffective and proposes to reorganize and
itntegrate extension under the MOA. As a first step, the administrative
control of field staff has been returned from PMO to the Extenision
Department of the MOA. However much remains to be done in determining the
proper management of extension and in resolving the role of the export
parastatals in promotion of the growth of their crops.
43.       University Training.  The Government recently decided to upgrade
the Faculty of Agriculture at Morogoro into an agricultural university
(Sokoine University of Agriculture), with major links to research and
extension. This decision became effective on July 1, 1984. The Government
intends to develop the university on the model of a U.S. Land Grant College
or an Indian Agricultural University. This development is expected to
provide a larger output of sk:Llled manpower and produce graduates more
suited to the staffing needs of the MOA in research, senior extension,
planning and parastatal management positions and the needs of the
agricultural sector generally. A major problem will be the speed at which
the Faculty can be transformed into a Universitiy while balancing cost,
quality of instruction, studenit supply, and graduate demand. Assistance is
needed to design a strategy for developing the agricultural university.
University and MOA interaction is a key to an eventual phase out of the
need for technical assistance, and the reconstruction of a unified research
and extension system to serve the agricultural sector.
44.       Input distribution has suffered from inadequate allocations of
foreign exchange and a policy of "confiniement", which prohibits private
companies from importing agricultural inputs and individuals from distri-
buting inputs from regional centers to villages. A study in 1980/81 by MDB
demonstrated that from 11% (cashew nuts) to 50% (sisal) of export revenues
needed to be spent on inputs, spares, fuel aind replacements to maintain
production. Based partially on this analysis, in December 1981 the
Association supported the Export Rehabilitation Program (US$50 million
under Credit 1133-TA) for the import of agricultural inputs. The
Goverinment agreed, in applying for this credit, to reserve 15% of
agricultural export earnings for the import of agricultural inputs.  This
has not occurred due to the pressure of other demands on the foreign
exchange available to the Bank of Tanzania. However, as a result of
discussions with the Bank Group, the Government has recently recognized the
foreign exchange problem and has allowed a number of agricultural exporters
to open Export Income Retention Accounts in foreign exchange covering 10%
of their export revenues. Beneficiaries under this scheme have been:
private sisal and tea estates and parastatals in'cluding  Tanzania Tea,
Sisal and Cotton Authorities and the Sugar Development Corporation, all of
whica need imported inputs to maintain product-on, processing and exports.



- 15 -
These Accounts are a significant rnove toward proper recognition of the
foreign exchange needs of agriculture.
Previous Bank Group Assistance to Agriculture
45.       From Independence through the 1970s, the Bank Group actively
supported agricultural processing and integrated rural development through
its lending program. Assistance was provided for 18 agricultural and 3
rural development projects consisting of US$240 million in IDA credits and
US$37 million in IBRD loans. By the end of 1980, it was apparent that: (i)
production was falling well short of projections based on the 1965-75
period (on which several processing projects had relied), and (ii) project
implementation problems were endemic to the agricultural sector, rather
than solvable in a project context. Accordingly, the Bank Group stopped
agricultural project lending per se pending a careful reassessment of the
sector problems. Lending subsequent to 1980 was for activities peripheral
to crop and livestock agriculture and consisted of the Sao Hill Forestry
Project (US$12 million under Credit 1229-TA), the Export Rehabilitation
Program (US$50 million under Credit 1133-TA), and the Third Technical
Assistance Project (US$12 million under Credit 1206-TA).
46.       The deterioration in the policy, institutional, and economic
environment has so adversely affected project implementation that projects
with recent closing dates have not been extended because the resources
available within the economy for project implementation were considered
inadequate. An exception has been the Rural Development Bank Project
(US$10 million under Credit 987-TA), which was extended for one year, after
cancellation of US$4 million. The problems of inadequate finance and
managerial deficiencies have been ubiquitous, permeating all agricultural
projects. The lack of trained technical staff and the lack of materials
(fertilizer, construction materials, etc.) have also been frequent
problems. Disbursements have lagged and significant sums have been
cancelled upon closing the projects. The agricultural portfolio is
considerably reduced as a result of the four-year lending hiatus and only
eight projects are currently under execution (including the forestry
project), five of which have major problems. Six of the projects are in
the process of consolidation or redesign, which will reduce recurrent costs
and in some instances reduce investment as well. Seven of ten recently
completed projects had major overall problems at the time of completion.
47.       Most agricultural projects financed by the Association have
provided for both short term consultancies and long term technical
assistance staff, principally financial controllers. Although recruitment
has often been delayed, the technical assistance components have been
implemented successfully and the performance of consultants has been
satisfactory. Technical assistance for institutional development has been
provided under three projects, two of which, the National Maize Project
(Credit 606-TA) and the Grain Storage and Milling Project (Credit 1015-TA),
provided technical assistance to MDB and PPMB, administered by FAO. These
two Tanzanian institutions have been very successful in institutional
development due, in large part, to both Government and Association



- 16 -
commitment to the concept and objectives of the institutions and provision
of support. Supervision by the Association has been intensive. The Third
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1206-TA) was designed to provide
financial and engineering expertise to the agricultural parastatals and to
further strengthen the MOA's capacity to supervise them. Project
implementation has been considerably delayed - due primarily to the
inadequate implementation capacity of the Government and in part to the
four and one half months suspension in 1982 of disbursements to Tanzania.
During the period of suspension, Government-FAO discussions on an
implementation agreement were interrupted. FAO initiated recruitment of
the technical assistance staff only after the agreement was signed in
January 1983.  The need to negotiate proper terms of reference with the
parastatals prior to staff recruitment also contributed to delayed
implementation. The MOA has provided office space, support staff and
accommodation for the Project. It also has brought pressure to bear on its
parastatals to provide suitable terms of reference and has repeatedly
intervened with the Ministry of Manpower to obtain clearances for technical
assistance staff. Individual terms of reference have now been developed
and candidates have been nominated for 85% of the technical assistance
posts, although not all candidates are in place. Similar difficulties are
not anticipated for the present project because it provides continuing
support for ongoing institul:ions with fully agreed terms of reference. For
the same reasons, this project will not overburden the capacity of the MOA
tc effectively utilize the itechnical assistance staff.
Policy Review and Bank Groul? Strategy
48.       Shortly after the Bank Group's reassessment of the agricultural
sector (the previously mentioned Tanzania Agricultural Sector Report), the
Government conducted its own1 review of the sector, which resulted in "The
Tanzanian Agricultural Policy". This review was later revised for adoption
as a Government White Paper, 'Agricultural Policy of Tanzania". There was
substantial agreement between the Bank Group and the Government papers on
the nature and seriousness of the problems of the agricultural sector.
However, the Bank Group placed priority on resolving marketing problems and
inadequate resources for the sector; whereas the White Paper focused on the
weaknesses of policy implemoentation and faulty allocation of the limited
resources available to the sector, Thus a near consensus on identification
of the problems still left room for considerable divergence of views as to
the appropriate action program. Both the Bank Group and the Government
relied heavily on factual studies carried out by the two bureaus within the
MCA, the MDB and the PPMB, which were supported by the Bank Group.
49.       Following intensive discussions of the sector report with the
Government in March 1983, it became clear that a major and explicit
reversal of the Government agricultural policy was unlikely. But there
appeared to be scope for pragmatic policy changes designed to cope with
particular practical problems of implementation. In these circumstances,
the Bank Group developed a two pronged approach to further agricultural
dialogue and lending. On tlhe one hand, it would support institutional
development within the MOA, such as that for PPMB and MDB, which would both



- 17 -
strengthen the institutional capacity to implement development policies and
produce the objective factual studies necessary for further dialogue. On
the other hand, it would consider lending for specific projects when the
policy climate was satisfactory. Clearly, the necessary policy changes
would vary according to sub-sectors; for example, a revised research policy
on structure and extension linkages would be needed to support a researeh
project. The institutional support is thus seen as a necessary condition
for a factually based policy dialogue and the policy adjustments required
to make physical investment productive.
50.       It remains unclear whether the Government can sustain a minimum
policy enivironment necessary for reasonable assurance that crop rehabilita-
tion projects could lead to self-sustaining improvement. However, with or
without active rehabilitation lending in the immediate future, the support
of MDB and PPMB and hence the MOA's capacity to analyze economic develop-
ments and documenit the likely costs of alternative policy responses is
crucial to the Government's eventual ability to develop a realistic
recovery strategy.
The Need for Further Technical Assistance
51.       Notwithstanding the recently announced policy initiatives,
stimulated by studies conducted by MDB and PPMB with technical assistance
support (para. 33), development of the agricultural sector will continue to
be constrained as a result of the shortage in agricultural manpower.  An
agricultural sector manpower study was carried out in 1979 with bilateral
financing.  It assessed demand in terms of ideal staffing and evaluated
supply in terms of existing staff in established posts and projected
incremental supply given the prevailing trends.  The study had two major
omissions; it did not address the issues of Tanzanian manpower trained but
lost to the public sector nor did it address the issues of demand
affordability and priorities. Consequently, the study has Inot been an
effective operational document for the Planning Division of the MOA.
Uinderlying the manpower shortage problem has been Government's failure to
acknowledge the existence of the supply-demand gap, thereby preventing any
remedial action. Manpower remains a resource constraint despite external
support; partially because of a limited supply of nationals with the
pre-qualifications for the training offered, partially due to overly
optimistic estimates of the time requirements needed for on-the-job
traininlg, partially due to the misallocation of available skilled staff
and partially due to the inability of the university and other training
institutions to turn out adequate numbers of skilled manpower.  Some 37% of
the professional positions in the central MOA remain unifilled and the
deficit is likely to increase through 1986.  There seems to be an increased
awareness of the need for professional manpower because in 1983 the number
of students allocated to the Faculty of Agriculture was above its servicing
capacity.
52.       A great deal of technical assistance will be necessary to
implement any agricultural strategy, part of which could be obtained from
Tanzania's private sector.  But there is a clear need for substantial
external technical assistance in support of broader Government functioas in



- 18 -
the MOA, in agricultural research institutions and in manpower
development. The Agricultural Sector Report specifically noted that
technical assistance is needed to prevent the further deterioration and
loss of research information while agricultural research is being
reorganized and that subsequent to reorganization Tanzania would have to
rely on technical assistance to staff the research system for at least a
decade. Technical assistance is provided in most donor-assisted projects.
The overall amount of technical assistance is known to be large. But due
to the diversity of donors involved, no overall picture of either total
technical assistance provided or needed is available. In the long term,
there is a need to phase out technical assistance for agricultural
development, both because the cost is high (about US$100,000 per person per
year), and because the Government's policy of self-reliance implies that
key posts will eventually be held by qualified Tanzanians. A global
picture of the extent of this technical assistance, together with
irLformation on the availability of appropriately trained and experienced
Tanzanians and the capacity of Tanzania to provide an increasing share of
the needed trained agricultural manpower, are required.   The training
aspects of the project (paras. 59 and 62) would contribute to the
replacement of technical assistance to MDB and PPMB. However, to analyze
broader policy options and effectively monitor parastatal management
performance, further technical assistance, on a much reduced scale, will be
required until 1990 for MDB and perhaps longer for PPMB.
53.       As brought out above (paras. 36-40, 44 and 49) the factual
studies carried out with technical assistance support by MDB and PPMB have
been basic to Association-Government dialogue on improvements in the policy
framework and in the associated management of the agricultural sector.
While the routine aspects of price policy and project monitoring could
continue without further external support, work on monitoring of parallel
market prices, import needs of agriculture, parastatal cost structures,
reform of the research systesm, input supply and distribution, etc., would
not be forthcoming. Withouit this work agricultural policy discussions
would be less substantial.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
54.       It was recognized at the time of presentation of the Grain
Storage and Milling Project to the Executive Directors in 1980 that the
funding for the MDB and PPMB included in that project would have to be
extended, as proposed under the present project. The need for the research
component of the proposed project was identified during sector dialogue
with the Government. The M()A prepared the MDB and PPMB components and,
with assistance from the Association, the research component. The
Government asked the Association to appraise the project in October 1983.
An appraisal mission visitecl Tanzania in October 1983; a brief post
appraisal mission followed in February 1984. Negotiations were held
August 3 to August 6, 1984 in Washington. Mr. C.Y. Mpupua, Deputy
Principal Secretary, MOA, led the Government delegation. A Credit and
PrDject Summary is provided at the beginning of this report, and a
Suoplementary Project Data 'Sheet is attached as Annex III.



- 19 -
Project Objectives and Description
55.       The proposed project would strengthen the MOA's capacity to
provide the analytical foundations (i) to improve agricultural pricinig
policy, (ii) to moinitor project and parastatal performance in the
agricultural sector, and (iii) to improve agricultural research. In
addition it would improve technical crop recommendations through cataloging
and updating of agricultural research data already generated by the major
research stations. The project would assist the Government to design and
implement its program to review and revise policies and institutional
arrangements in the agricultural sector by extending financing for MDB (the
major policy analysis body) and PPMB (the financial monitoring institution)
and to begin to coordinate the fragmented agricultural research system.
56.       Specific components of the proposed project for the MOA are:
(i) Assistance to the Planning Division, MDB:
(a) five advisers for long term coasultancies of thirty
staff months and short term consultancies totaling
seven staff moniths;
(b) ten staff years of overseas fellowship training;
(c) vehicles and equipment; and
(d) support staff and operating assistance.
(ii)  Assistance to the Planning Division, PPMB:
(a) eleven advisers for long term consultancies of
252 staff months and short term consultancies
of seven staff months;
(b) nine staff years of overseas fellowship training
and 50 staff months of local training;
(c) vehicles and equipment;
(d) support staff anid operating assistance; and
(e) special studies on the effectiveness of technical
assistance and the use of skilled Tanzaniani
agricultural manpower, and on the design of a strategy
for training and infrastructure development at
the Sokoine University of Agriculture, and
(iii) AssistaiLce to the Department of Research:
(a) five lonig terra advisers for 30 staff
months;



- 20 -
(b) vehicles and equipment; and
(c) support staff and operating assistance.
Detailed Features
57.       Assistance to MDB.  The technical assistance staff, consisting of
a team leader (national), four marketing economists and one production
economist would work with the eight counterparts now in post, and assist in
training incremental staff to be recruited. The MOA has budgeted a net
addition of two professional staff per year over each of the next three
years. The technical assistance staff would continue to assist in
expanding MDB's capacity to analyze more complex pricing strategies and
marketing structures. The assistance also would enable MDB to assume a
more substantive policy role on the reintroduction of cooperatives and the
reversion of crop authorities to market board status. The project would
support the continuation of comprehensive annual price reviews of
agricultural products and of agriculturally derived products, and analysis
of the budgetary and foreign exchange implications on parastatals and
Government.  Market research would be improved, more market information
would be compiled, and the role of unofficial markets and new official
marketing institutions would be more fully analyzed. Also, work would be
expanded into the area of farm management/production economics in an effort
to identify factors responsible for quantity and quality decline in
agricultural production.
58.       The analytical work on prices and sub-sector modeling has
increased, with more work being performed on micro-computers. Currently
only three Tanzania staff have full competentence in micro-computer use and
two have basic familiarity. Therefore, micro-computer training will assume
a high priority for the existing MDB staff and for staff who have
transferred to parastatals. The project would finance one year overseas
fellowships for 10 MDB staff, as needed, in agricultural economics,
production economics, agricultural marketing, and price analysis (para.
69).
59.       While MDB has had a very good in-house training program for its
own staff, it has had a much broader de facto training role. The transfer
of well trained staff to other agricultural and parastatal institutions has
retarded the development of MDB but has benef-Ltted the sector at large. To
stem the demand for MDB staff, the bureau wou:Ld undertake a larger
training role for personnel in the Ministries of Planning and Economic
Affairs, Finance, and Agriculture and Livestock Development, agricultural
parastatals and cooperatives. The training would include basic policy
analyses of pricing and marketing issues.
60.       The project also would finance support staff, vehicles (five
4-wheel drive vehicles and four standard drive cars), equipment
(micro-computers, word processors - to interface with the micro-computers
in the preparation of statistical reports and facilitate timely revision of
reports, particularly those directed to the Economic Committee of the
Cabinet - a photocopier, and calculators), supplies, vehicle operating
costs, and travel allowances.



- 21 -
61.       Assistance to PPMB.  Technical assistance to PPMB would consist
of the following professional staff: agricultural economist/chief technical
adviser, two planning economists, project operations analyst, agronomist,
agricultural engineer, irrigation drainage engineer, financial coordinator,
cost accountant, management accountant, and management analyst. In
addition, five U.N. volunteers would be recruited to provide semi-
professional assistance and incremental support staff would also be
financed. Government has created 16 counterpart posts of which 10 are
filled, and has budgeted for the creation of 11 additional counterpart
posts over the project period. A Tanzanian director/team leader has been
identified and is expected to be appointed during FY84/85.
62.       Under the project, PPMB's Project Preparation Unit would
establish an inventory of all agricultural project proposals and, in
collaboration with the central planning authorities, prepare a standardized
set of appraisal criteria, determine priorities for preparation of new
projects and revision of on-going projects, and provide technical support
and training in project preparation for parastatal staff. The Monitoring
Unit would ex?and and reorient its technical and financial monitoring
activities toward restructuring or eliminating projects from the
development budget, as warranted. The previously implemented financial
reporting format (for parastatals) would be supplemented by in-depth
project reviews, focusing on systems to provide timely management
information. The Budget and Finance Unit (BFU) would focus on the
financial restructuring of the agricultural parastatals, the divestiture of
some marketing functions and the design/implementation of budget control
and management systems. Sectoral planning would be strengthened and
analyses of annual budget proposals would be emphasized. A training
program on parastatal accounting and reporting procedures would be
implemented and, in cooperation with MDB, the unit would provide training
in monitoring financial and management performance for agricultural
parastatals and cooperatives. Overall training support for PPMB staff
would include nine years of fellowship training abroad in agricultural
economics, financial analysis, management accounting and financial
management and 50 staff months of in-service training, in project
preparation, budgeting, accounting, etc. (para. 69).
63.       The project would provide for vehicles (six 4-wheel drive
vehicles, eight standard drive cars and two mini buses), equipment
(micro-computer, a word processor to facilitate preparation of reports for
the Cabinet, typewriters to make up for current shortage and to support
increased staff, and calculators), furniture, supplies, vehicle operating
costs, and travel allowances.
64.       In view of Tanzania's extensive use of technical assistance, two
special studies are included in the project: (i) the effectiveness of
technical assistance and the use of skilled Tanzanian agricultural
manpower; and (ii) the design of a strategy for training and infrastructure
development of the Sokoine University of Agriculture (para. 43). The
technical assistance study would address supply of and demand for high
level manpower trained at the tertiary level, i.e. the level of most
technical assistance staff. Components on the attrition and possible



- 22 -
recovery of public sector manpower, affordable demand (rather than ideal
staff levels) and technical ass2istance replacement priorities would be
included. Terms of reference for the study were discussed and agreed at
negotiations.  They are shown in Annex IV.  This study would be undertaken
by PPMB and finaniced by the Government as part of its contributionl to the
project. The results of the study would be submitted to the Association by
October 1, 1985 (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
Governiment would employ a consultant to work with the MOA, University, and
other institutions to design terms of reference for production of a
strategy for developing university level agricultural training and the
associated infrastructure. The resulting terms of reference would be
discussed and agreed with the Association. The Government would, by April
1, 1985, employ suitably qualified consultants, in accordance with the Bank
Group guidelinies, to conduct the study in consultation with appropriate
University Committees, MOA and the Ministry of Education, and by October 1,
1985 submit the study results to the Association for review and
discussion. (Sections 3.02 and 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
While the training elements of this project address the development of
skilled Tanzanian manpower for agricultural planning, the phasing out of
technical assistance to the agricultural sector as a whole is a much
broader issue. These studies would set the stage for developing a phase
out strategy (para. 52).
65.       Assistance to the Research Department.  The project would provide
technical assistance in the form of five zonal agronomists, who would be
posted to the principal research station in five ecological zones and be
responsible to the Director cf Research. The technical assistance staff
would redress the fragmentation issue (para. 43) by providing needed
technical advice in research orientation as well as by introducing needed
continuity to research coordination and by reestablishing an externsion
liaison. The fundamental task of the agronomists would include, inter
alia, to: (i) review the zonal research recorcds and catalog the existing
research data; (ii) in consultation with extension specialists, summarize
the data into crop and area specific recommendations for extension service
use; and (iii) provide technzcal guidance on problem-oriented research.
They would be recruited and employed through an implementation agency, to
be agreed with the Association.  The project would finance 4-wheel drive
transport and vehicle operating funds for the zonal agronomists. The
Government would provide housing, support staff, office accommodation, and
off-.ce and field equipment.
Project Costs and Financing
66.       Total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$L1.,.94 million of which US$10.03 million, or 84%, would be foreign
exchange costs and US$1.91 million, or 16%, local costs.  These costs were
est.mated at 1984/85 prices and include physical contingencies for
furniture and equipment of 10% for both local and foreign components. Price
contlingencies for local components were estimated at 12% annually and for
foreign components were estimated at 8.5% in 1985/86 and 9.0% thereafter.
After the initial six month period January-June 1985, the project years
would be coinsistent with the Government's fiscal year commencing July 1.



- 23 -
The project costs and contingency projections were adjusted to conform with
this timing. These costs are based on recent consultants' contracts for
similar work in Tanzania. The summarized project cost estimates are
contained in Annex V.
67.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 9.9 million (US$10.0 million
equivalent) would finance over 99% of the foreign exchange component of the
project. The Government's contribution to the project would be mainly in
kind and personnel office space and housing, support and counterpart staff,
office and field supplies and general operating support. The Government
also would finance the technical assistance study.
Implementation and Monitoring
68.       The project would be managed and implemented by the MOA over a
period of 30 months. The Director of Planning of the MOA would be
responsible for implementing the MDB and PPMB components. However, FAO
would continue as the implementation agency for these bureaus as requested
by Government. The Director of Planning also would be responsible for the
studies on the design of a training strategy at the Sokoine University of
Agriculture and on the effectiveness and use of technical assistance.
Implementation of the research component would be the responsibility of the
Director of Research of the MOA. Individual technical assistance
assignments would be undertaken in accordance with terms of reference
contained in Annex VI. The studies; of university training and technical
assistance would be implemented by PPMB and conducted under terms of
reference agreed with the Association.
69.       Annual work plans for the three institutions would be prepared
and submitted to the Association for review prior to each project year.
Semi-annual progress reports would be submitted describing, inter alia, the
work accomplished, any significant deviation from the work plan and
training undertaken. Also, project activities would be reviewed annually
by representatives of the FAO, the MOA, and the Association. The MDB and
PPMB would develop staff training programs which would be incorporated into
the annual work plans. The training programs would describe the skill
levels of existing staff and the proposed staffing pattern, with skill
levels, at the termination of the project, and would be revised annually to
adjust to unexpected attrition. The training programs would include a
postgraduate training schedule identifying the staff to be awarded
fellowships and defining the disciplines for study. They also would
include an annual schedule of short courses (budgeting, project
preparation, financial reports, etc.) and the participating staff. In
addition, on-the-job training schedules identifying staff participants and
supervisors, topics and duration would be indicated. The Association would
supervise the project intensively, as it has for previous support to MDB
and PPMB.



- 24 -
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
International    Local
Competitive  Competitive                      Total
Project Element        Bidding(ICB)  Bidding(LCB) Other         N.A.   Cost
(US$ thousands)
Technical assistance
staff and FAO
overheads/adminis-
t:ration                                            6,923              6,923
(6,923)            (6,923)
Fellowships and                --         --           780       --        780
Training                                             (780)               (780)
Vehicles                     435          --          --         --        435
(435)                                        (435)
Ecuipment, Furniture
and Materials                  --          140         385       --        525
(140)      (106)               (246)
Special Studies                __         --           618       --        618
(276)              (276)
Operating Expenses             --         --          --       2,658    2,658
(1,340)  (1,340)
TOTAL                      435           140       8,706    2,658   11,939
(435)         (140)    (8,085)  (1,340) (10,000)
Ncte:  F'igures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association.
71.       The Government has requested and the Association has agreed that
FAO would undertake recruitment of the specialist staff for MDB and PPMB.
Technical assistance staff (US$6,923,000) hired under the project would be
emiployed in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines on the use of
consultants. Training (US$780,000) would be at selected overseas and local
institutions which meet the training requirements. Procurement of vehicles
(US$435,000) would be grouped whenever possible, and orders of US$100,000
or more would be subject to international competitive bidding according to
Bank. Group guidelines. Equ:ipment and furniture amounting to US$140,000 is
expected to be purchased in lots of less than US$100,000 but more than
US$10,000 through LCB. Add:Ltional equipment, furniture and materials
purchases estimated to cost US$385,000 would be procured in lots of



- 25 -
US$10,000 or less through local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group and through Government stores. The special studies (US$618,000)
would be undertaken by MOA staff with consultancy staff selected in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Incremental operating expenses of
US$2,658,000 include: US$790,000 for professional and support staff
(Tanzanian); US$427,000 for local travel; US$506,000 for vehicle operation
and maintenance; US$612,000 for supplies; and US$323,000 for local support
cost for research (housing, offices, etc.) for which procurement options do
not apply but are subject to review by the Association.
72.       Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(i) 100% of total expenditures on techn4.cal assistance
staff and FAO overhead/administrative costs;
(ii)  100% of total expenditures on fellowships and
training;
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local
expenditures on vehicles, equipment, furniture, and
materials;
(iv)  100% of foreign expenditures for special studies;
(v) total expenditures for operating expenses would be
reimbursed on a declining scale of: 90% up to the
time the aggregate amount of disbursements reaches
US$360,000; 70% thereafter up to the time such aggre-
gate amount reaches US$990,000; and 35% thereafter up
to the time such aggregate amount reaches US$1,340,000.
This would provide an average disbursement of approx-
imately 60%. However, local support costs (housing,
offices, etc.) for the research component would be
excluded from reimbursement as they would be fully
covered by the Government.
Disbursements against equipment and operating expenses would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure. An estimated schedule of disbursements
is contained in Annex VII.
73.       Agreement was obtained at negotiations that except for salaries
of local personnel, no taxes or duties would be levied on salaries or
personal effects as defined by the law of the borrower.
Accounts and Audits
74.       The MOA would establish and maintain three separate accounts
adequate to record and monitor the progress of each of the three major



- 26 -
project components.l/ The statement of accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and submitted to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement). Special attention
would be paid to statements of expenditure. Not later than six months
after the closing date of completion of disbursements, the Government would
prepare and submit to the Association a fulL report on the execution of the
project.
Benefits and Risks
75.       The proposed projject would provide support for the Government's
program to review and revise policies and institutional arrangements in the
agricultural sector by assisting MDB in the improvement and expansion of
pricing and marketing policy analyses and by strengthening PPMB's
analytical and training capacity in parastatal financial management and
reconstruction. The work cif MDB and PPMB would continue to provide donors
and Government with studies and information for policy discussions and
decisions. Specific aspects of their work, such as MDB's work on
multi-channel market structures and on the declining quality of
agricultural commodities and PPMB's work on parastatal and cooperative
finances and management, would provide the basis for any future project on
crop rehabilitation or crop processing. Similarly, the preservation of
research information and extension package development would benefit any
future lending for research and/or extension.  The special studies would
form the basis of a strategy for reducing external technical assistance and
more effectively using and developing national expertise.
76.       The project benefits can best be appreciated by considering the
"without project" scenario.  In this case, the annual review of official
prices and reporting of informal market prices would continue, since this
activity has been largely transferred to Tanzanian staff. Similarly, the
monitoring of parastatal expenditures would be little affected. However,
what would suffer are the innovative aspects of generating management
information systems for parastatals, analyzing alternative market
st:ructures and marketing institutions, assisting Government to define and
identify investment priorities and agricultural policy analysis.
Considerable progress has been achieved in training staff for the MDB and
PPMB, but because of high demand for skilled technicians and attrition,
crucial gaps remain. The training efforts of the project would contribute
substantially to reducing the manpower gaps. Without the project, the
Government would find further policy reform difficult as it would not have
the capacity to generate the necessary information to support new policy
decisions. The Association's capacity to contribute to the development of
alternative policy ideas would also be severely affected by the loss of new
descriptive data on the performance of the sector.
1/ A single account is normally maintained for a technical assistance
project, but as this project contains three distinct components, three
separate accounts are proposed.



- 27 -
77.       The major risk inherent in all technical assistance projects is
delay in implementation due to late recruitment of personnel. To minimize
this risk, the terms of reference for the long-term technical assistance
staff would be agreed at negotiations. Similarly, terms of reference for
the study on technical assistance would be agreed at negotiations. As
Government has asked FAO to continue implementation of the MDB and PPMB
components, and the Association has agreed there is little risk that the
long-term technical assistance staff would fail to be integrated as
counterpart staff are in place and FAO has a successful history of
integrating technical assistance staff into MDB and PPMB. There is a
greater risk of delay in recruiting technical assistance staff for the
research component as it is a new initiative rather than an extension of an
ongoing operation. To obviate this risk the cost estimate for this
component incorporates contingencies based on the assumption that 36 months
would be required to implement the 30-month project. The risk of
integrating short-term consultants and implementing their recommendations
into policy initiatives remains. To reduce this risk, counterpart staff
would be assigned to work with the consultants.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 16, 1984



-28-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A B L E  3A                                           PAGE 1
TANZANIA, UNITED REP. OF- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA, UNITED REP. OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WE       D AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           LOW INCOME AFRICA           MIDDLE INCOME
196L/b       197/Ib  ESTIMATE/b          SOUTH OF SAHARA         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. PK)
TOTAL                                    945.1        945.1      945.1
AGRICULTURAL                             381.1        398.2      401.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         70.0        120.0      280.0 /c              249.1                      1112.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)             17.0         50.0       50.0                 62.8                        529.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        10201.0      13300.0   19763.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)              4.8          6.9       12.9                  19.2                        29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (M1LL)                                  36.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   117.0
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                              2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PFR SQ. ElM.                            10.8         14.1       20.2                 32.5                         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                  26.8         33.4      47.6                 119.2                       111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUC£URE (5)
0-14 YRS                               42.7         44.4       46.2                 45.6                        45.4
15-64 YRS                              54.3         52.5       50.8                  51.5                        51.7
65 AND ABOVE                             3.0          3.1        3.0                  2.9                         2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                    2. 2         2.7        3.3                  2.8                          2.8
URBAS                                    5.O          6.3        8.5                  6.2                          5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)              46.f,        46.8       46.9                 48.6                         47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)              22.4         18.6       14.8                 17.7                        15.2
GR1SS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.C          3.1        3.2                   3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                 ..           ..       93.6 /d
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..           ..        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                             95.0        104.0       88.0                 85.8                         91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)            90.0         91.0       83.0                 86.4                         98.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                46.0         49.0      46.0                  49.9                        56.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             18.0         21.0       20.0 /e              18.3                        17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE               31.0         24.0       18.4                 23.8                         18.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)             41.5         46.5       52.0                 41.4                         51.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)            144.0       122.0       98.0                 117.5                       102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                     ..         13.0      39.0 /f               21.8                        35.6
UIRBAN                                    ..         61.0      88.0 /5               61.5                        54.1
RURAL                                                 9.0      36.0 /f               14.2                        27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..       17.0 /f              32.0
URBAN                                     ..           ..      88.0 /f               69.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..       14.0 |f              24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               18220.0      22240.0   17560.0 /e            27477.8                      11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                11890.0/QL    7160.0    2980.0 /e             3396.2                       2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  600.0 ,g    720.0       500.0 /e            1089.0                       986.9
URBAN                                   60.0 Ij      60.0       80.0 /V             395.2                        368.7
RURAL                                 1530.0           ..    1190.0 1W             3094.0                      4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..           ..
HOU1SING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..          4.4 /i
URBAN                                    3.1 Ij       3.2 /l      .
RURAL                                     ,,          4.5 /      5.3 /f
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                    1.8 Ij        ..        ..                    .
RURAL                                     ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..



-- 29 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A                                                  Page 2
TANZANIA, UNITED REP. OF- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
TANZANIA, UNITED REP. OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           LOW INCOME AFRICA            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b       1970/b  ESTIMATE/b          SOUTH OF SAHARA          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY;   TOTAL                         25.0         39.0      102.0                  69.2                         91.0
MALE                         33.0         47.0      107.0                  78.8                         90.5
FEMALE                       18.0         31.0       98.0                   8.3                         14.8
SECONDARY: TOTAL                          2.0          3.0        3.0                  13.1                         17.4
MALE                          2.0          4.0        4.0                  17.6                         23.7
FEMALE                        1.0          2.0        2.0                   8.3                         14.8
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)                22.6            ..       1.8                    7.2                          5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  45.0         46.0       43.0                  46.1                         38.6
SECONDARY                                20.0         18.0       19.0                  25.9                         24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                     9.5 /g      28.1 /i   79.0                    44.3                        35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP                 2.4          2.5        2.6 /e                3.8                         20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                2.0         11.3       27.0                  41.9                        100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                    ..          0.3        0.4                   2.0                         18.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.5          4.7       10.5 /k                5.4                         17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA             0.5           ..        0.2 le                 1.4                         0.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)                4735.0       5842.0    8004.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                         37.2         36.7       36.1                  36.5                         33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   89.0          86.0       83.0                  77.4                         57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                        4.0          5.0        6.0                   9.8                         17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    46.4         43.9       40.5                  41.0                         36.3
MALE                                     59.1         56.3       52.7                  52.1                         47.6
FEMALE                                   34.0         31.8       28.7                  30.2                         25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                           1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..         24.7
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                  ..         50.4
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..          5.8
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..         16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                      ..           ..      147.0 /1              168.3                        525.3
RURAL                                      ..           ..      109.0 /T               90.8                        249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                      ..           ..      125.0 /1              107.7                        477.4
RURAL                                      ..           ..       74.0 /i               65.0                        186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                      ..           ..       10.0  1l              34.7
RURAL                                      ..           ..       60.0 /1               65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Mainland Tanzania only; /d 1976; /e 1977; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/1i 1967; /5 1958; /k 1979; /1 1978.
JUNE, 1984



- 30-                                                                             ANNEX I
____________________________                                        ~~~~ ~~ ~~Page    3    of    6
toos   tthootto.Ott ae laet  ft.  cotocagsttslosPottOtOt al  t.toolcalsat,  talabs,II  tood totOs   ta  91stottc...     00....teot....ll
~.ott  htaaaotOt. aC  o  toodtlta  dtlltoo   tt  otctt  ctObyIdftst  tootca tt  otatolt  01 tea   0* dtaat,  ttt  -lat."sOoSt
teeclbt  odet oOeogoood   Otttttataot. ao   asct.tsaottao soo. dffseo-s  te  s-o   -h              ISott-tta-.S
00s osttoocattoooattl.100550      DItttoI ...t......         toootooilaoo.to   oooott.sa9a  t5oaattq   'oo--050' --                                    ttatcof  O
t.ojsttotty   eatsOtt'Iag  loo    11fsttttt I-o -hs.  159.4 bc.   ot    tic  o   10.Ps.   at-so   scoto   lottaotc,ot
.ffOlOO.a1     Otttttsteo. gcot0.oeft.atatcesate  otolatit atattd sttfesotasats t   aactodoacoaooscoat  tly tat  eIocot  f th  coottot I
T-1.0faItt   t   htlotao.fo.OI oo-atge- o  too- ola 9aaot  th  IOteot   apoa                                tooololly  OIoa  o  I  ttta et.  ooto 
etactod   ctlattOsoeaasofoottttatttaottt.  htasottsaasoloaatlboo.soogtatloaf   oe  odcsot -t laaoottocoto- ftt.
SI00                                                                                                     I.t ........ ftaotat  .ctla -oo11-da  oo t.a.a.  of - tatt-
~"sa  tolttt    .tpta.t   ataattollodaooa    96,ohst.so  otbold   t.   sdta   cholt  oxatlt   sel
920 *td 1991  ata.                                        Pootlatot oat Oooalo  Peteot - ttot,tloo  dcttld to tototettfSItatt-ttt
talcoc,ol-atneotetcot.taataoodaoctallttottooto                                       alatdt.ss   tsSatItaa -alcat  otas -ecltloc--ao
fot oto.. faoottat  aatkaatlctoitat dttaoaott Itsttllto   IdOl,tota-o    t.tooLttttee.                    I
ItOhtol199  daa.                                                                 otottlot   to,.Ita  Ot -  occ   otatattoal tIIlttc  ltttl
Mz                                                                               ......~~~~~~~ota,al  oa    otldb  ict   ecato   cbs   ftaotttd
Ot  00220.091-Ct  e   ett  eteta   o  otao   ake   ota.etlaboI  ttt  .9tott  gtta   o.  pcslad 019.   t
oatolsao  y tte  ocatalotaetod  t - t1 ..to .  ta ......   0 tos.af                      o.t... l...   tcoas           ottlsaeeoltst    saooloct
.90,it,  od101  at.                                                                       o  t  s'ctot  otylcat   Ooa.t..ete .....scttcOa....tcta
oc   otode.sttloa-tl   tonat-       Ioloetalot
000000 )tfO00OIlt  ft OYl . -.d.t..  .ot.t.t  .t....oo.otllttcl  ato   o   eaaoettafo   ycyltt to   oaelt 
Toal-ctsfto  00 1-tac  1 ootdt    .oSot                  I02   00,sd.01oots
Otto.                                                       Octate 010*  e toocehtd loetac. oat tosetoldl   ttal. otct,            atoott
coho  oeostoc  ttootooftotl)- tto  o  ott-  -t0.    oteto                                     hotodtoot   fa  oo   ftdedae-h   ht                          I0qst
Ittoo --    ooto.oohssts.a   tot  taaa911,0  lo                                                o  oetetots>             t9tdo00lteSaIo  sfcoO  Itoel
a-tCtotltS     O1-00   o   9-    at                                                          h  Oooo,todI  Ott at--   tls  -tttSI.
ttttlsttootoottct.ote                                       tott,saoosbsot oeteots Ootooo-total  cotat. atoooaltootttso.tsta
ttcoalto lteao.OtO.toctOottolc Stt  tllIolt-Io  taotlO                                feet    eoc    oloos,oloa    coltoootlc
totl woolto       g   tdtocO  ol   otaloao   atilt                                        olItt,           .....s c    oell0   ac05ct- .eeo   octot    0
.Ocolettloo-   tteoocttooit    attcOtetOOt                                                  cttol tta
)etloeooiodittsttetaoc o  01thtocotictatt  totttoctttotaooolctlott leoo.o o  ta  ltts    tosl  octt   oOtool 
10 Itocte teocl sot cost ItOOlt                    II"       Y; 1
clo t-lat tosct.to  toloIttio  a   od  oooooo                                                T-09100
"o tr       ttof  cllltst   etlt   ttl   c   tooloc.tto.tlstOtcb.0Oec
St______                                                 otclootoacoto-otl -lottoO-tcootlalatfal
Otto   Oatt.o  ots~o0ccottotootol.atlt-t- Seolo          otioyctlct'tloes    t   o                                           tF toc t...       osef   ttoo
woe soltstctsy  totloo  so  tloa-tc  -eo    tttlat  coleo   ocoalt  --lts--                                               lbloloc    th  octt~
ttoodicoceo.i .   c  ottotoot -c  te  ltttI.ta  -ettoo-ot  otalaf    c   ltt-tIooao   ooat   ltott   o
Sf  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ oottslt    ococloo-toottls-stttolt
ltOOt tot Itocto  IOoattlococ tcola lttOt  a   sltol010tttaa   otI t.. t ..lo  octoo   oecfoo  cttod
tstootO.Ocltto   tcttttoltttafooliltotteOttOtttlotoooitoolosecotcloto0SIlttttel-toot
- fIt otloooot-  aoottct-Otttaltf.otoottt                                                             otto   tttI             ......ot t,   Ctttc  tllo  oo.t0  0   o
tetoth   10tOtttlo    tOseIfat.oocotc"tIll,e                                                     otttol co  1  o.  Iaoo0ao   occctdoao Io   c
toeI.-     Oe-o   T acoOt--too   t   attI,tt    Osltttl    0120
coaooo     0otolt   o  t  'o     o  tcottto  ai  oic                                cc ttlcoclso   ttot  o   tocet  -Otflmo
olooattcetltat   tooltoot  o oh  ttotoloo  oot   oto:.  tit  ltoolootOlool   Itosolal,oc toto  0ctttoatttotcot
ttoSsoolotott.ltostotoltsottIoso.                                                               tcOtototaeatteo    feotofcttoco
0001 ItO, 10I oOOt  Ito



- 31 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population    : 19.7 million (mid-1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$260 (1982)
TAIANIA - EOIIC INICATS a/
Amount                                Anmial Real Growth Rates (Z)
Indicator              (million US$ at
current prices)                            Actual                                             Projection
1982           1976   1977    1978   1979    1980    1981         1982          19833'/   1984         1985
NKAIGNAL AXXDLS
Gross dosstic productd/              5097.0            7.9    6.6     2.6    3.5    2.6    -0.7         -3.2          -0.5        2.8         3.1
Agriculture                         2334.4           4.9    8.8    5.4    0.7       4.7    -8.2       -&7           -1.0        4.0         4.0
Industry                            677.2           9.7     6.5   -4.1    13.9   -9.1   -10.9    -13.2              -3.0        2.0         2.5
Services                            1515.6           7.0    7.6    2.2    2.6    6.1         6.4       3.1          -0.0        2.0         2.5
Casumption                           4673.0            1.0   13.0   10.1   -7.9       6.8    -7.3       -2.0           1.1        5.1         2.8
Gross investnent                     1024.3          12.5    1.2    9.2   20.2  -13.6         11.0      -4.6         -11.1       -0.3        -2.0
Exports of GNFS                       556.5           3.9  -20.7   -6.3    12.2    0.6    12.5    -21.9                7.5       -9.7         4.3
lmports of GNFS                      1157.5         -12.9    0.3   31.5  -17.4   -0.4    -7.0    -15.2                 0.2       -1.4        -2.9
Gross domestic savings                423.3         136.3   -4.8  -60.8   139.6  -29.0    43.7    -13.4               -8.1       -0.3         7.8
PRICS
GF deflator (1978  100)                              77.7   92.()  100.0  105.5   114.0   128.2    140.3             144.8      158.5       173.6
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per US$)                         8.4    8.3    7.7       8.3    8.2       8.3       9.3          11.3       17.0         17.0
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                     Average Anual Increase (.)
(at current prices)                              (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975     1982      1985     1990       1970-75       1975-682       1982-85         1985-90
Gross domestic productd/                 100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0              4.7           2.8            1.9             3.7
Agriculture                              36.9      36.9    45.8      46.4    47.5           2.1           1.5            2.5             4.4
Ixhustry                                15.5      14.5    13.3        4.2      4.2          3.7          -1.1            0.6             3.4
Services                                37.2      38.0    29.7       38.1    37.2           6.5           4.8            1.5             3.4
CoLeuqption                               79.7      91.4    91.7       84.1    81.2           7.2           1.9            3.2             3.1
Gross investsant                          22.5      21.1    20.1       18.4    17.5           0.1           4.8           -4.2             2.5
E;xprts QFS                               26.1      19.8    10.9       14.2    17.0          -4.6          -2.2           -0.7             7.9
laports GNFS                              28.1      32.3    22.7       16.7     15.8          0.4          -2.3           -1.4             2.6
Gross domstic savings                     20.5       8.6      8.3      12.0    14.4         -15.4           4.4           -0.4             7.7
As % of GDP
FY71    FY78   FY83
PUBLIC FlAl
Current revem                           17.8    19.3   21.6
GLirrert experditures                   16.3    18.3   28.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)               1.5     1.0   -7.0
Capital experditures                    7.8      9.8   16.0
Foreigs financirg                       2.9      2.1    8.6
1970-75      1975-82     1982-85    1985-90
UIER IDICA3TCS
GNP growth rate (%)                  4.7           2.8         1.8        3.8
GNP per capita groath rate (%)        1.4         -0.5        -0,3C/      0.6
ICOR                                 3.6           8.4        11.4        4.7
Marginal savings rate               -0.4           0.4        -0.2        0.3
lIaort elasticity                    0.08         -0.82       -0.7        0.7
a/ Mainan  only.
Preliminary estimate.
t 1983-85
At market price; canponents are expressed at factor cost.



- 32 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population:     19.7 million (misd-1982)
(NP Per Capita: US$260 (1982)
TA1mZ.ANlA - ECIENAL TRAIE a/
Amounit                              Amaial Real Grawth Rates (%)
Indicator              (million US$ at                              (at cosutant 1978 prices)
current prices)                           Actual                                           Projection
1982           1976   1977   1978   1979   198D    1981         1982          1983iE    1984        1985
EX[ElL IAEE
Mercbandise exports                 444.1            7.7  -21.7   -3.5   14.5   -1.8    10.1    -16.6              8.8       -9.8        5.1
Major primary products            357.8            9.4  -20.0   -9.8    2.8   -8.5    42.2    -20.0              8.0      -10.2        7.6
Others                             86.3           2.9  -26.6   16.4   43.3    9.9   -37.0         -9.8          13.4       -8.7       -1.3
Merebandise im,orts                1109.6         -16.7    2.1   32.6  -17.0   -2.3    -5.2    -10.0              -2.2      -1.8        -3.4
Foodgrains                        104.1         -46.5  -31.9   -0.6  -48.2  286.3   -29.2    -14.4              -7.9      -33.7      -50.0
Petroleun                         249.7           21.4  -20.5    4.1  -18.6   27.1   -15.5    -18.7             13.7        1.2        0.0
Machinery and equipment           394.2          -14.5   24.9   52.1   -7.8  -25.5    14.8    -20.3             -6.6        0.0       -2.4
Others                            361.6          -17.0    3.8   20.1  -22.4   -7.7   -13.1          9.9         -0.7        4.0        2.6
PRICS
Export price index                  111.0          84.5  114.6  100.0  107.3  114.2   105.7    111.0             134.4       98.3      108.8
Import price index                  174.0          82.3   92.9  100.0  124.6  144.1   143.6    174.0             175.1      155.6      164.4
Terms cf trade index                 63.8          102.7  123.4  100.0   86.1   79.3    73.6        63.8          76.8       63.1       66.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                      Average Amual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                 (at conatant 1978 prices)
1970     1975      1982     1985       1990       1970-75        1975-82        1982-85       1985-90
Exports                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0         -4.2           -1.5             2.1          8.2
Major pri3sry products               59.2      66.3     69.0      73.2      71.6         -1.0           -2.2             1.4          7.5
Others                               40.8      33.7     31.0      26.8      28.4        -10.5           -0.4             0.4         10.2
Irorts                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0          1.9           -1.8           -0.3           2.8
Foodgrairs                            7.7      17.7      9.4       3.5       1.6         23.4           -5.3           -23.4         -9.4
Petroleum                             3.1      8.0      12.0      12.4      11.1         -4.0           -4.6             0.3          0.1
Madcinery and equipment              35.2      31.1     35.5      42.4       43.1        -1.1            2.7             0.7          2.3
Others                               54.0      43.2     43.1      41.6      44.3          0.9           -3.7             3.3          3.6
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with                        Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)         Developirg Countries (Z)              Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
1970     1975    1982            1970      1975     1982               1970          1975          1982
DIRECIOCN OF TRADE
Exports                              54.0      47.4    56.0            40.0     48.9      37.4               0.6            3.6          1.0
importa                              57.9      58.0    68.2            27.3     34.8      23.2               1.2            6.2          3.9
a/ Data are for all Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar)
-1 Estinate



- 33 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TAtIA - hAIAW  OF PAYM1S, EXEUAL CAPITAL AND IEBT
(million tS$ at current prices)
Actual                              Projectizn
Indicator                      1970    1975    1978    1980    1981      1982     1983.a/  1984        1985    1990
BAIAN  OF PAYMEN
Export of aods ard services            346     518     632      755     774      559      606       629        725    1405
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.         252     376     480      576     580      444      477       501        583    1146
Imports of gWods ard services          375     840    1269    1412    1301      1186     1237      1276       1313    1917
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.         318     770    1144    1252    1175      1110     1159      1183       1207    1743
Net transfersb/                          6     -10       19      19      23       20        21       22         23      30
Current acCODt balance                 -24    -332    -618    -638    -503      -607     -610      -625       -565    -482
Official grant receipts                  7     112      146     109     204       95       145      163        150      170
M & LT loans (net)                      73     171      136     132     214      120      312       287        305     322
Official                              72     171      144     127     213      119       284      270         29     322
Private                                2       -      -8        4       1        1       28        17         15       -
Other capitslc/                         -9      66     -46    399        94      341      213      235         170      30
harnge in reserves    = increase)d/  -47       -17     290      -2       -9       51      -60       -60        -60     -40
International reservesd/                99     130      46       98     107       44      104       164        224     444
Reserves as mDnths importsdf             3.7     2.0     0.5      0.9     1.1      0.5       1.0      1.5        2.0     2.8
EXIEKNAL CAPITAL AND IEBT
Gross disbursaemnts                     60     344     317      297     429      350
Official grants                        6     112     146      109     204       95
Cncasaional loars                     40     191     106      110     227      187
TAC'/                               20      88      64       20      69       53
opf:                                 -       -       -        3      17        2
Mk                                   9      20      24      35       84       65
Other                               11      83       18      52      57       67
Nxrcacessional loam                  14      41      65       78      43       68
Official export credits                -       1      45       27      11       29
IBRD                                   5      40      17      22       17       10
Other maltilateral                     -       -       -        -       4        6
Private                                9       -       3       29      11       23
External Debt
Debt outstandirg and disbursed       323     798    1141    1338    1497      1618
Official                           193     747    1098    12M1    1410      1537
Private                            129      51      43      77       86       81
ULdisbursed debt                     408     419     546     919      928     1012
Debt service
Total service pyments                 26      29      38       52      54      113
Interest                            10      11      18      31       27       38
Payments as % exports                  7.5     5.9     6.1      7.2     7.0     20.2
Average interest rate on new loars (x)  1.6      3.0      2.6     2.3     2.4      4.0
Official                               1.5     3.0     2.6      1.8     2.4      2.5
Private                                7.0     -       -        9.4     -        7.6
Average mturity of new loans (years)  38.8    32.6    35.4    28.7    32.1        30.7
Official                              39.7    32.6    35.4    29.9    32.1      35.5
Private                                7.2     -       -       10.9     -       18.6
As % of Debt Outstandirg
at End of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstardirg
Maturities dte within 5 years                                          47.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                         46.6
Interest structure of debt outstardirg
Interest due within first year                                          2.8
a/ Fatimate
D/ ECludirg official grant receipts.
C  hcui  suppliers credit, use of the IF credit, World Bark and OPEC prcgram loars, IMF 1rust furd, errors and
od.asios  and build up of arrears.                                                                                                             _
d/ Without IMF credit.



-34-                                ANNEX  II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower            Purpose                    Bank i/ TW    IDA '/ Undisbursed
Eleven loans, one Third Window loan, and thirty
credits fully disbursed.                                    156.37  29.99  290.06
1128-TA  1975  Tanzania   Mwanza Textile 2/                   15.00                     0.53
607-TA  1976  Tanzania   Fifth Education                                     11.00    3.94
1385T-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.50              0.92
1386-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.50                          0.48
703-TA  1977  Tanzania   Rural Development (Tabora)                           7.20    3.02
732-TA  1977  Tanzania   Second Sites and Services                           12.00    3.18
743-TA  1977  Tanzania   TruckLng                                            15.00    2.40
801-TA  1978  Tanzania   Second Cashewnut                                    27.50    6.66
803-TA  1978  Tanzania   Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                       12.00    4.22
1607-TA  1978  Tanzania   Morogoro Textile                   25.00                     21.01
833-TA  1978  Tanzania   Morogoro Textile                                    20.00    0.56
860-TA  1979  Tanzania   Tourism Rehabilitation                              14.00    7.74
861-TA  1979  Tanzania   Sixth Education                                     12.00    9.00
1650-TA  1979  Tanzania   Mufinli Pulp and Paper              30.00                    14.69
976-TA  1979  Tanzania   Fifth Highway                                       20.50    5.98
1745-TA  1979  TDFL         Tanganyika Dev. Fin. Co., Ltd. 11.00                        1.33
1750-TA  1979  TIB          Tanzania Investment Bank          25.00                     6.35
387-TA  1980  Tanzania   TanzarLia Rural Dev. Bank                           10.00    9.29
1007-TA  1980  Tanzania   Pyrethrum                                           10.00    6.50
1015-TA  1980  Tanzania   Grain Storage and Milling                           43.00   37.03
1037-TA  1980  Tanzania   Smallholder Tea                                     14.00   11.07
1056-TA  1981  Tanzania   Seventh Education                                   25.00   23.63
1060-TA  1981  Tanzania   Technical Assistance II 3/                          11.00    6.78
1070-TA  1981  Tanzania   Coconut Pilot 3/                                     6.60    4.29
l.33-TA  1981  Tanzania   Export Rehabilitation Program 3/                    47.10    4.37
l173-TA  1982  Tanzania   Telecommunications I 3/                             25.30   13.18
1199-TA  1982  Tanzania   Songo-Songo Petroleum II 3/                         20.30    0.51
1206-TA  1982  Tanzania   Technical Assistance III 1/                         12.00    8.59
1229-TA  1982  Tanzania   Sao Hill Forestry-Phase II 3/                       12.00    9.37
1271-TA  1982  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply (Suppl.)_/4/                      4.00    0.94
1312-TA  1983  Tanzania   Dar es Salaam Sewerage and                          22.50   19.85
Sanitation 3/4/
1370-TA  1983  Tanzania   Mufindi Pulp and Paper MilL                         18.00   17.50
Tech. Asst. & Energy Conv.3
1371-TA  1983  Tanzania   Coal Engineering 3/4/                                6.30    6.30
1405-TA  1984  Tanzania   Mtera Hydroelectric Power 3/4/                      35.00   35.00
Total                                                        273.87  41.49  763.36
of which has been repaid                                   45.62    -       12.45
Total now outstanding                                     228.25  41.49  750.91
Amount sold                                 .09
of which has been repaid                  .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                           228.25  41.49  750.91
Total undisbursed                                             44.39   0.92  260.90  306.21
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.
2/ Since these projects have recently been completed, loan/credit
accounts will soon be closed.
3/  Sixth replenishment; approximatte US$ equivalent of SDR's.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 35 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
(US$ million)
Loan                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
No.         Year       Borrower          Purpcse                  Bank 1/  Undisbursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                                        228.93
1204-EA    1976         EADB         Development Finance          14.10         0.03
Total                                                243.03         0.03
of which has been repaid                            91.63
Total now outstanding                                151.40
Amount sold                      24.36
of which has been repaid       24.36                 0.00
Total now held by Bank                               151.40
Total undisbursed                                      0.03         0.03
/  Net of exchange adjustments.



- 36-                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business          Loan    Equity   Total
1960 &    Kilombero Sugar           Food Processing            3.96     0.70      4.66
1964        Company
1978      Highland Soap and         Soap Manufacture          1.38      0.36      1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979      Metal Products            Household Utensils        1.33      0.18      1.51
Total gross commitments                        6.67      1.24      7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         4.17      0.69      4.86
Total commitments, now held by IFC              2.50     0.55      3.05
Total undisbursed.                             0.06       -        0.06



- 37 -                  ANNEX III
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                   2 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           MOA with assistance from
the Association
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Association and date of
first mission to consider the
project:                               June 1983
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                               October 1983
(e) Date of departure of Post
Appraisal Mission:                     February 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:   August 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           December 1984
Section II:  Special Association Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(a) The Government would, by October 1, 1985, submit to the
Association the results of the study on the effectiveness of
technical assistance and the use of skilled Tanzanian
agricultural manpower, (para. 64 and Section 3.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
(b) The Government would: (i) by April 1, 1985, commence a study to
design a strategy for training and infrastructural development at
the Sokoine University of Agriculture,and (ii) by October 1, 1985
submit the study results to the Association (para. 64 and
Sections 3.02 and 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
(c) The Government would ensure that the project accounts are audited
by independent auditors not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year (para. 74 and Section 4.01 (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement).



-38 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Study of Technical Assistance
and Skilled Agricultural Manpower
1.        Scope of Study:  The study concerns university graduates used and
needed by the agricultural sector from independence to the year 2000;
together with agricultural graduates used in any sector, (i.e.,
accountants, economists and pure scientists used in the agricultural sector
are to be included, as are agricultural graduates used in teaching,
diplomatic service, etc.) including effectiveness of technical assistance
personnel employed in the agricultural sector.
2.        Date Sources:  The major data sources are expected to be (i) the
Ministry of Manpower Development and Labour, (ii) the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development, (iii) the Prime Minister's Office,
(iv) the Sokoine University of Agriculture and (v) the agricultural
parastatals.  Some primary data collection on career structure, utilized
skills and job content will also be necessary. Some useful data is
available in the USAID, Tanzanian Agricultural Sector Study, Vol. 1, 1980.
3.        Terms of Reference:  The study will involve the following major
aspects:
(i)    Use of Trained Manpower by Employers
Provide a table of skills used by employers over
time. This will include filled and vacant positions and
whether incumbents were local or expatriate, and how well
qualified. The time period concerned will be from
independence to the present.
(ii)   Career Profiles of Trained Manpower
Provide a table of skills of trained manpower by
employer over time. This will show how graduates have
been used, how many have gone onto higher degrees, and how
many have "leaked" into administration, politics, private
sector and/or overseas employment. Again the time period
should be from independence to the present.
(iii)  Skills Provided by Technical Assistance
Provide an analysis of skills provided by technical
assistance, over time, how financed, cost, and whether the
positions filled were structured or supernumerary. Again
the tme period should be from independence to the present.



- 39 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
(iv)   Projected Skill Requirements
Projections of skill requirements by employer from
the present until 2000 on three assumptions:
(a) No change in staffing,
(b) Total staff the same, but employer allowed to change
the skill mix, and
(c) A 3% growth in staff p.a.
(v)    Projected Supply/Demand Balance
Utilizing the career profile data assembled in (ii)
above, and expected university output, projections of
supply/demand in balance to the year 2000 will be made on
the assumption (a) that technical assistance continues to
be available at present levels, and (b) that technical
assistance is phased out by 2000.
(vi)   Sample Survey of Satisfaction with Technical Assistance
For a 10% sample of existing technical assistance the
relevant employer will be asked to evaluate performance
and contribution in terms of the following
characteristics.
(a)  type of position or job
(b)  technical competence and experience
(c)  ability to establish good working relationships
(d)  understands/appreciates the politics of development
(e)  previous experience
(f)  ability to work in a team
(g)  adapts expertise to local situation
(h)  listens/responds to local colleagues
(i)  degree of specification in TOR
(j)  borrowers perception of the necessity of TA
(k)  was the TA at the insistence of a donor agency
(1)  did project/program have a local manager
(m)  availability of counterparts
(n)  were counterparts appropriate for the position
(o)  priority of the position
Survey results will be confidential and will only be
reported on a pooled basis.
(vii) Interpretive Analysis
An interpretive analysis of the above data will be
written to highlight any skills in particularly short (or
over) supply, to show the value of technical assistance
over time and any changes in its composition, and to
assess the practicality of dispensing with technical
assistance by, say, the year 2000, or earlier. And to
include specific recommendations to accelerate the use of
local expertise.



- 40 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
4.        Staffing:  Leadership of the study will be the responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, but consideration
could be given to letting a contract to Sokoine University of Agriculture,
or Institute of Development Management, Mzumbe, or the Economic Research
Eureau, or ESAMI, or NIP to carry out the major data assembly tasks. At
least one PPMB staff member should be assigned to the study on a full-time
basis.



- 41 -                      ANNEX V
Page 1 of 9
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Total Project Costs
FE
Local     Foreign      Total
-------US$ '000       … _- __
Base Costs
MDB                                443.7    3,127.9      3,571.6   88
PPMB                               822.9    4,510.0     5,332.9  85
Research                           394.7    1,430.3     1,825.0  78
Base Cost                      1,661.3    9,068.2    10,729.5  85
Contingencies
Price                              223.1      938.0     1,161.1  81
Physical                            24.0       24.6        48.6  51
GRAND TOTAL                    1,908.4   10,030.8    11,939.2  84
March 12, 1984



MDB Program Support
Base Costs by Project Year
(US$ '000)
PY1                PY2                 PY3                             FE
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign             Total          %
Team Leader & Experts                             272.5                545.0               545.0       1,362.5       100
Consultants/Contractual Services                   39.0                 69.0                61.0         169.0      100
Local Professional Staff                  12.3                29.5                34.4                    76.2         0
Support Staff                              6.3    34.0        12.5     68.0       12.6      68.0         201.4       82
Travel                                             29.2                 59.8                62.7         151.7       100       1
Vehicles                                           28.0                 48.0                34.0         110.0       100
Other Equipment                           32.8    35.0        65.6      65.0      65.6      60.0         324.0       49
Fellowship/Training                                81.8                160.5               148.1         390.4       100
Vehicle 0 & M                              9.8    18.6        19.6      35.1      23.8      30.9         137.8        61
Supplies/General                          20.5    42.0        45.1      63.8      53.3      64.1         288.8       59
Overhead (13%)                                     75.4                144.8               139.6         359.8       100
TOTAL                                   71.7   665.5      172.3  1,259.0    189.7  1,213.4           3,571.6       88    ' M
0
March 12, 1984



MDB Program Support
Total Base Costs
TSh '000--                            -------US$ '000 -                      FE
Local     Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign      Total           %
Team Leader & Experts                           16,622.5   16,622.5                     1,362.5    1,362.5         100
Consultants/Contractual Services                  2,061.8    2,061.8                      169.0       169.0        100
Local Professional Staff                930.0                   930.0         76.2                     76.2          0
Support Staff                           383.1    2,074.0    2,457.1           31.4        170.0       201.4         84
Travel                                            1,850.7    1,850.7                      151.7       151.7        100
Vehicles                                          1,342.0    1,342.0                      110.0       110.0        100
Other Equipment                       2,000.8    1,952.0    3,952.8          164.0        160.0       324.0         49
Fellowships/Training                              4,762.9    4,762.9                      390.4       390.4        100
Vehicles 0 & M                          649.0    1,032.1    1,681.1           53.2         84.6       137.8         61
Supplies/General                      1,450.6    2,072.8    3,523.4          118.9        169.9       288.8         59
Overhead (13%)                                   4,389.6    4,389.6                       359.8       359.8        100
TOTAL                              5,413.5   38,160.4   43,573.9          443.7       3,127.9    3,571.6          88
0
March 12, 1984



PPMB Program Support
Base Costs by Project Year
(US$ '000)
PYl                PY2                 PY3                           FE
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign            Total         %
Experts                                          459.0               943.5               841.5       2,244.0      100
Consultants & Contractual Services                 56.0               40.0                50.0         146.0      100
Local Professional Staff                 40.2               80.4                80.4                   201.0        0
Support Staff                             7.4      32.0     14.9      64.0      14.9      25.8         159.0       77
U.N. Volunteers                                    36.5               73.0                73.0         182.5      100
Travel                                    8.6      40.5     17.2      84.0      17.2      82.8         250.3       83
Vehicles                                           63.7               70.4                79.1         213.2      100
Equipment                                12.2      30.9     24.5       7.0      24.5       1.0         100.1       38
Fellowships                                        62.8              125.6               125.6         314.0      100
Supplies/General                         21.1      22.5     42.2      45.0      42.2      45.0         218.0       52
Vehicles 0 & M                           15.0      32.2     30.0      64.4      30.0      64.4         236.0       68
Special Studies                         275.0    225.0      25.0      25.0       -         -           550.0       45
Overhead (13%)                                    137.9              200.4               180.5         518.8      100   or z
TOTAL                                 379.5  1,199.0    234.2  1,742.3    209.2  1,568.7           5,332.9       85    4 
I-h
March 12, 1984



PPMB Program Support
Total Base Costs
-     ---TSh '000 ----------          ---------US$ '000 ---------            FE
Local     Foreign      Total          Local      Foreign      Total           %
Experts                                         27,376.8   27,376.8                   2,244.0    2,244.0         100
Consultants/Constractual Services                1,781.2    1,781.2                      146.0       146.0       100
Local Professional Staff             2,452.2                 2,452.2       201.0                    201.0           0
Support Staff                          453.8    1,486.0    1,939.8          37.2         121.8      159.0          77
U.N. Volunteers                                  2,226.5    2,226.5                      182.5      182.5        100
Lin
Travel                                 524.6    2,529.1    3,053.7           43.0        207.3      250.3          83
Vehicles                                         2,601.0    2,601.0                     213.2       213.2        100
Equipment                              746.6       474.6    1,221.2          61.2         38.9       100.1         38
Fellowships                                      3,830.8    3,830.8                     314.0       314.0        100
Supplies/General                     1,287.1    1,372.5    2,659.6         105.5         112.5      218.0         52
Vehicles 0 & M                         915.0    1,964.2    2,879.2           75.0        161.0      236.0          68
Special Studies                      3,660.0    3,050.0    6,710.0         300.0        250.0       550.0         45
0
Overhead (13%)                                   6,319.6    6,319.6                     518.0       518.0         100
TOTAL                             10,039.3   55,012.3   65,051.6         822.9      4,510.0    5,332.9           85
March 12, 1984



Research Support
Base Costs by Project Year
(US$ '000)
PYI                PY2                PY3                 PY4                    FE
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Total    Z
International Experts                      153.0              510.0               510.0              102.0    1,275.0 100
Support Staff                       5.0                25.0               25.0                 5.0                 60.0   0
Local Support Costs
(Housing, Offices etc6)          33.0              110.0               120.0               22.0                285.0   0
Vehicles                                    70.0                                                                   70.0 100
Vehicles 0 & M                      3.0      9.5       12.1    18.9       12.1    18.9         6.0      9.5        90.0  63     >
Supplies/Operating Costs            1.5      4.5        6.0     9.0        6.0      9.0        3.0      6.0       45.0  63
TOTAL                          42.5   237.0      153.1   537.9       163.1   537.9       36.0   117.5    19825=0  78
0'
F-h
M
March 12, 1984



Research Support
Total Base Costs
-…-TSh '000--------                    -…-US$ '000---                       FE
Local     Foreign      Total          Local     Foreign      Total           X
International Experts                          15,555.0   15,555.0                   1,275.0    1,275.0         100
Support Staff                          732.0                  732.0         60.0                    60.0          0
Local Support Costs
(Housing, Offices etc.)           3,477.0                 3,477.0       285.0            0       285.0          0
Vehicles                                          854.0       854.0                      70.0       70.0        100
Vehicles 0 & M                         405.0      693.0    1,098.0          33.2         56.8       90.0         63
Supplies/Operating Costs               201.3      347.7       549.0         16.5        28.5        45.0         63
TOTAL                            4,815.3   17,449.7   22,265.0          394.7     1,430.3    1,825.0          78
Ith
M 1Z
(D..
0
March 12, 1984



Summary by Year and Price Contingencies
(US$ '000)
PY1                PY2                 PY3                 PY4
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Total
MDB                                 71.7    665.5    172.3  1,259.0    189.7  1,213.4                            3,571.6
PPMB                              379.5  1,199.0    234.2  1,742.3    209.2  1,568.7                            5,332.9
Research                            42.5    237.0    153.1    537.9    163.1    537.9          36       117.5   1,825.0
SUB TOTAL                       493.7  2,101.5    559.6  3,539.2    562.0  3,320.0          36       117.5  10,729.5
Price Contingency 1/                                   67.1    300.8    143.0    606.4         13        30.8   1,161.1
TOTAL                           493.7  2,101.5    626.7  3,840.0    705.0  3,926.4           49       148.3  1,1890.6
1/ Local costs at 12% annually.
Foreign exchange costs at 8.5% in PY2 and 9% thereafter.
March 12, 1984                                                                                                                  0 
h



-49 -                      ANNEX V
Page 9 of 9
Physical Contingency Estimates
Local     Foreign      Total
---------US$ 1,000     …
Furniture and Equipment
MDB                                   164.0       185.0       349.0
PPMB                                   61.2        38.9       100.1
Research                               15.0        22.5        37.5
SUB TOTAL                          240.2       246.4       486.6
Physical Contingencies 1,              24.0        24.6        48.6
1/ 10% local and foreign.
March 12, 1984



-50 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 18
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultants for MDB
Project Coordinator/Team Leader
Would be responsible for the overall supervision and day-to-day
rnanagement of the project, for coordinating the activities of all Tanzanian
and expatriate staff attached to the Project, for the procurement, use and
maintenance of all Project equipment and supplies financed from both
Government and Project funds, and for maintaining liaison with the MOA and
other Government Ministries and institutions. In particular, would be
responsible for:
(a)  preparing, in conjuction with the MOA, the Bank
Group and FAO, an annual work plan including its
implemention after  approval by all parties
concerned;
(b) preparing and submitting of semi-annual Project
Progress Reports;
(c)  developing and implementing a training program
for Tanzanian staff.



- 51 -                       ANNEX VI
Page I-of 18
lerms of Reference for Long Term
Conisultanits for M1DB
Marketing Economist (Price Policy Analysis)
Under the general direction of the Tanzanian Project Coordinator,
would assume overall responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Price
Review. This would involve coordinating the inputs of the entire
professional staff of the project.
Price policy analysis techniques employed during Project should be
further developed. Particular focus here should be on:-
(a) development of an overall agricultural price policy model;
(b) development of individual commodity models to examine the
effects of different levels of producer price on quantity
purchased, parastatal costs (particularly fixed costs per unit
purchased), parastatal losses, and export earnings/import
savings;
(c)  identification of regional price differentials to reflect
marketing costs (this will be of considerable importance early
in the life of the project with the reintroduction of
cooperative marketing);
(d)  analysis of net foreign exchange generation/saving capacity of
major commodities (this is important not only as a key factor
influenctng producer price recommendations but also to assist
in the rational allocation of foreign exchange to the
agricultural sector);
(e)  improvement of pricing for domestically consumed products
(grains,oilseeds, and sugar together with those products for
which a ready export market exists but which are also the raw
materials for domestically produced textiles, gunny bags,
cigarettes, instant coffee etc);
(f) analysis of prices for agricultural inputs subsidised by
Government (e.g. fertilizer);
(g) analysis of world market price for commodities relevant to
Tanzania.
In addition, would carry out other studies relating to any aspect
of pricing and marketing policy as required. Training of counterpart staff
and participation in MDB-organized training courses/workshops would be a
major activity.



- 52 -                      ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 18
Terms of Refereiice for Long Term
Consultants for MvWB
Marketing Economist (Market Information)
Working with two counterparts, the major responsibility would be to
collect, analyse, and disseminate information on the staple food marketing
system. This refers to both the formal sector, including parastatals and
cooperatives, and also the informal marketing system. In particular, the
group would:
(a)  maintain a nationwide reporting system for agricultural prices
including training seminars and site visits. The group will
increase the acczuracy and scope of information, particularly
accuracy of measurement, and decrease the time required for
transferal of data to Dar es Salaam;
(b)  maintain a micro-computer data base of regional prices,
volumes, and transfers on the official market, and prices and
trade patterns on the unofficial market;
(c)  publish once each month the Monthly Market Bulletin,
containing deta.iled retail price reports for food commodities
with appropriate time series. Efforts should be made to
develop appropriate indexes of food costs by region, based on
local consumption patterns;
(d)  conduct studies and analysis in order to advise on the
appropriate role of central government in the food marketing
system, relative to the coops and other channels.  This will
include analysis of buffer stock management, priority regions
for procurement and for sales, and appropriate policy
instruments for achieving target procurement levels;
(e) contribute substantially to the annual price review for food
crops.
On-the-job training of counterpart staff and participation in MDB-
organized training courses/workshops would be important components of the
job.



-53 -                      ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultants for MDB
Marketing Economist (Training)
The major responsibility of this position would be to organize and
carry out the series of training and information seminars that will be
developed as an extended facet of MDB's activities. Seminars would be
arranged to meet the needs of several levels of Tanzania's relevant
managers and administrators. These include:
(a) executive level seminars for agricultural parastatal managers
describing current marketing techniques prevailing in
associated international industries by a mixture of FAO
experts, local experts and participants in international
trade;
(b) seminars for middle level public servants in the Ministries
comprising the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Agricultural
Pricing (Ministry of Development and Planning, Treasury, MOA,
etc.) designed to further promote an awareness of positive
pricing strategies;
(c)  mid-level seminars and workshops for management information,
efficiency and productivity needs;
(d) production level training sessions for various groups, e.g.
cooperatives, private businesses and CCM (Chama cha Mapinduzi
- the Party) groups, on local marketing procedures,
organizational practice and financial management methods.
There would necessarily be a great deal of liaising with the other
groups participating in such training activities; i.e. local organizations
such as Institute for Finance Management (IFM), National Institute for
Productivity (NIP) and the University of Dar es Salaam; other FAO projects
working in this field including PPMB; short term FAO or other consultants;
and any other international aid group that may wish to contribute
knowledgeable personnel to a particular seminar series.
A secondary, but none-the-less highly important activity, would be
in the field of staff development: for MDB Tanzanian professional
personnel. The primary focus would be to plan on-the-job and postgraduate
training programs for all new entrants to MDB, but staff who had been with
the bureau for long periods could also take advantage of counselling.



- 54 -                      ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 18
Terms of Reference for Loing Term
Consultants for MDB
Marketing Economist (Operations)
Major responsibility would be to advise on technical aspects of
marketing, both domestic and international.  Also important would be the
procurement of data from cooperatives, parastatals and other marketing
institutions for inclusion in the agricultural price analysis carried out
in MD)B. Specific areas where marketing advice could be required include:
(a) operation of primary cooperative societies;
(b) operation of cooperative unions;
(c)  determination of cooperative/parastatal interface;
(d)  review of the implications of legislation under which
marketing institutions, particularly MOA parastatals,
operate.
(e)  assistance in the establishment of more appropriate grading
standards for produce at all levels, particularly primary
procurement;
(f)  monitoring of developments in international marketing and
trade relevant to Tanzanian institutions marketing
agricultural products;
(g)  on-the-job trairnin,g of counterparts and assistance with
MDB-organized training courses/workshops.



- 55 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultants for MDB
Production Economist
In close collaboration with counterpart staff, the Production
Economist would be responsible for further improving the quality and
usefulness of crop cost of production data used in the Price Review.
Specific focus would be on:
(a)  obtaining data on estimates of zonal (as opposed to national)
cost of production, a considerable amount of which has become
available in the past two years from the various Iategrated
Rural Development Projects in Tanzania;
(b)  investigating seasonal smallholder labor input requirements
(in the past annual requirements have mainly been considered);
(c)  improving the consistency of smallholder returns to labor
estimates between different Tanzanian crops. At present, a
meaningful comparison between net returns to labour for annual
and perennial crops is difficult to make;
(d)  further developing the use of micro-computers in the analysis
of Tanzanian cost of production data;
(e)  training of at least two new counterpart Production Economists
to form the basis of a Production Economics Unit in the
Planning Division of MOA, and participation in MDB-organized
training courses/workshops.



- 56 -               ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
C_onsultancy Staff for PPMB
Agricultural Economist- Chief Technical Adviser (CTA)
In close cooperation with the PPMB Director, the CTA would:
(a) coordinate the plan of work and the activites of all the
members of the FAO Team to ensure achievement of the immediate
objectives of the Project;
(b) participate irn the identification, preparation and appraisal
of agricultural projects;
(c)  participate in the establishment and implementation of a fully
functional monitoring and evaluation system of projects,
parastatal agencies and cooperative societies;
(d) coordinate the preparation and issue the periodic management
reports for use by the Minister, the Principal Secretary and
the Director of the various Divisions in the MOA;
(e) assist in liaising with the various missions visiting
Tanzania, particularly the missions of the Bank Group, the FAO
Investment Centre, IFAD and other UN agencies, in the
identification, preparation, appraisal, monitoring and
evaluatioin of agricultural projects;
(f) assist in the follow-up of the recommendations of such
missions;
(g) develop and implement a training and fellowship program for
the national officers of the PPMB;
(h) coordinate the organization of short courses (4 to 6 weeks) in
project preparation, monitoring and evaluation for the staff
of the MOA, its Parastatal Agencies and the Regional
Administrations;
(i)  carry out the general administrative and control functions
relating to thie FAO inputs in the project: staff, project
budget, imprest account, equipment, training, and other
assignments as designated by the PPMB Director. At the end of
the assignment, make the necessary arrangements for a proper
hand-over of functions to the PPMB Director.



- 57 -                      ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Planning Economist I
Under the general supervision of the PPMB Director, the Planning
Economist would assume the function of principal adviser to the Project
Preparation Unit and assist the Chief of the Unit in its managements More
specifically, duties would include:
(a)  guidance in formulating agricultural project proposals to meet
the requirements of various financing agencies;
(b) assistance in the establishment and up-dating of the inventory
of new project proposals in the agricultural sector;
(c) assistance in preparing agricultural investment projects,
based on well-identified priorities and national needs, for
external and internal ftnancing;
(d) assistance in coordinating the preparation of agricultural
investment projects;
(e) assistance in appraising project proposals prepared by the
different agencies of the MOA;
(f) liaison and cooperation with the visiting missions of the
various national and international financing and technical
agencies in the identification, preparation and appraisal of
new agricultural projects and in the review and revisions of
on-going projects;
(g) assistance in conducting on-going and ex-post evaluation of
agricultural investment projects;
(h) on-the-job and formal training to Tanzanian staff in project
preparation, appraisal and evaluation;
(i) preparation of course materials and case studies for short-
term seminars/workshcps on project preparation and related
subjects;
(j) any other assignments given by the PPMB Director with a view
to achieving the immediate and long-term objectives of the
project.



- 58 -                     ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 18
Terms; of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Planning Economist II
Under the general supervision of the PPMB Director and in close
collaboration with the Planning Economist I, the Economist would:
(a)  assist in preparing agricultural investment projects, based on
well-identified priorities and national needs, for external
and internal financing;
(b) assist in appraising project proposals prepared by the
different agencies of the MOA;
(c) prepare and up-date information, on the costs of items commonly
used in the agricultural sector and in agricultural projects;
(d) provide on-the-job training to the Tanzanian counterpart staff
in project preparation, appraisal and evaluation;
(e) prepare course materials and case studies for short-term
seminars/workshops on project preparation and related
subjects;
(f)  carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of the project.



- 59 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Project Operations Analyst
Under the general supervision of the PPMB Director, the Project
Operations Analyst would assume the function of principal adviser to the
Project Monitoring Unit and assist the Chief in its management. More
specifically, duties would include:
(a) assistance in maintaining and up-dating the inventory of
all agricultural development projects to be monitored by
the MOA;
(b) assistance in the design of proper project and technical
monitoring systems;
(c)  assistance in the on-going and ex-post evaluation agricultural
development programs and projects assistance in their regular
monitoring;
(d)  assistance in the organization and carrying out of in-depth
evaluation of major agricultural development projects focusing
on the establishment of management information systems;
(e) assistance in liaising and cooperating with visiting missions
of financial and technical assistance agencies in the
supervision, monito-ring and evaluation of agricultural
development projects and in the effective follow-up of the
accepted recommendations of such missions;
(f) assistance to projeat managers in ensuring effective and
efficient implementation of agricultural development projects;
(g)  assistance to MOA Departments and related agencies in
setting up of Project Monitoring and Evaluation teams and
training the staff on such teams;
(h) assistance in the preparation of the annual development budget
proposals for the MOA and related agencies, their action plans
and implementation progress reports;
(i) training Tanzanian officers in all the above activities both
by working with national officers and by participating in more
formal training courses;
(j) any other assignments given by the PPMB Director with a view
to achieving the immediate and long-term objectives of the
project.



- 60 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 11 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Agronomist
The Agronomist would be attached to the Project Monitoring Unit.
Under the general supervision of the PPMB Director and in close
collaboration with the Project Operations Analyst, the Agronomist would:
(a)  assist in monitoring the progress of on-going agricultural
development programmes and projects, with particular reference
to their agronomic aspects;
(b)  set up a system of technical information on current and
approved cultivation practices in Tanzania;
(c)  assist in monitoring the performance of the national
agricultural research organizations;
(d) participate in ongoing and ex-post evaluation of agricultural
development programs and projects;
(e)  assist in planning, coordinating and supervising the
collection of agronomic data in designated project areas, both
for project preparation and project monitoring and evaluation;
(f) undertake analys.is and advise on the agronomic aspects of
project preparation work;
(g) assess the suitability of identified project areas for
cultivation of crops, prepare crop calendars, specify
requirements of water, labour and other farm inputs for
different crops, both irrigated and rainfed; assist in
preparing farm budgets and in other agroeconomic analysis for
project preparation;
(h)  carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of the project.



- 61 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 12 of 18
Terms of Referenice for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Agricultural Engineer
The Engineer would be attached to the Project Monitoring Unit.
Under the general supervision of the PPMB Director and in close collabora-
tion with the Project Operations Analyst, the Engineer would:
(a) assist in monitoring the progress of ongoing agricultural
development programs and projects, with particular reference
to the engineering and mechanization aspects of the project's
activities:
(b) set up a system of technical information and specifications
for agricultural machinery and processing plants for
use in project monitoring and preparation;
(c)  participate in ongoing and ex-post evaluation of agricultural
development programs and projects;
(d) assist in planning, coordinating, carrying out and supervising
collection of technical data on the effectiveness and
efficiency of use of various equipment and machines, in
particular agricultural machinery by MOA and related agencies'
agricultural development projects;
(e) undertake analysis and advise on the agricultural engineering
aspects of project preparation work;
(f) carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of the project.



- 62 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 13 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Cornsultancy Staff for PPMB
Irrigation and Drainage Engineer
hre Engineer would be attached to the Project Monitoring Unit.
Undler the general supervisicin of the PPMB Director and in close
collaboration with the Project Operations Analyst, the Engineer would:
(a)  provide assistance in monitoring implementation of ongoing
irrigation projects;
(b)  assist in preparing in-depth evaluation of selected,
representative irrigation projects and schemes with a view to
determining the factors leading to their success or failure
and proposals for remedial action where required with due
consideration of their economic impact;
(c) undertake analysis and advise on the water engineering aspects
for the preparation and redesign of irrigation and drainage
projects;
(d) assist in coordinating, carrying out and supervising
collection of engineering data, in particular topographical
surveys and other site investigations, in designated project
areas;
(e)  assist in preparing designs and cost estimates up to pre-
feasibility level for each project, including the preparation
of implementation schedules and details of plant and
equipment, manpower and operation costs requirements;
(f)  carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of tie project.



- 63 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 14 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Financial Coordinator
Under the general supervisiLon of the PPMB Director, the Coordinator
would assume the function of principal adviser to the BFU and assist the
Chief of the Unit in its management. More specifically, the Coordinator's
duties would include:
(a) assistance in reviewing, refining and implementing the MOA's
Management Information and Reporting System with a view to
exercising tight control on the cash flows, costs and revenues
of its parastatals and related institutions. This will
include:
- development and introduction of improved systems of
accounts, stock recording and financial control,
- development and introduction of improved systems for
setting cost and work norms, cost allocation and cost
control,
- gradual unification of methods of bookkeeping, codes of
financial accounts, preparation of prime entry books and
other financial and cost statements in all the MOA
parastatals,
- eventual mechanization of accounts,
- setting up a data bank on the finances and operation of
MOA's projects and parastatals;
(b) assistance in reviewing the parastatal plans and budgets,
periodic financial and budgetary control statements and audit
reports and making recommendations for improvement;
(c) assistance in carrying out in-depth studies relating to
specific high priority financial and management problems
indicated by the parastatal monitoring activities;
(d) day-to-day supervision and coordination of the work of the
financial accountants on the project and of the UN Volunteers
(Accounts);
(e) coordination of the inputs of the members of the project team
in the areas of financial analysis and management for
incorporation in the parastatal and project monitoring
reports;
(f)  liaison with the other agencies of the Government of Tanzania,
the Bank Group and other donor agencies on matters relating to
the accounts and finanzial management of the MOA's parastatals
and related institutions;
(g) any other assignments given by the PPMB Director with a view
to achieving the immediate and long-term objectives of
project.



- 64 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 15 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Cost and Management Accountant
The Accountant would be assigned to the BFU. Under the general
supervision of the PPMB Director and in close collaboration with the Chief
of the BFU and the Financial Coordinator, the Accountant would:
(a) assist in reviewing the recommending improvements in the
Management Information and Reporting Systems for the MOA's
parastatals and related institutions;
(b) assist in setting up norms of costs and work and standardizing
the costing, cost allocation and cost control systems, so as
to improve the efficiency of use of resources and facilities;
(c) assist in analyzing the organizational and management
structure of parastatals in order to introduce an efficient
relationship between size/structure kind/volume of activities
and outputs and use of resources (including manpower);
(d) assist in analyzing the sources of revenue, particularly sales
revenue, and suggest in consultation with the MDB, more
effective policies and approaches for marketing management;
(e) assist in reviewing the parastatal and project budgets,
periodic financial and budgetary control statements and audit
report and making recommendations for improvement;
(f) assist in initiating follow-up action on these
recommendations:
(g) assist in the preparation of periodic financial, budgetary
control and monitoring reports for top officials of the MOA
and its parastatals and related institutions;
(h) be responsible for developing and implementing the Unit's
training program, both on-the-job and workshops/seminars.;
(i) assist in setting up a data bank on MOA's parastatals and
projects;
(j) carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of the project.



- 65 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 16 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Management Accountant
The Accountant would be assigned to the BFU. Under the general
supervision of the PPMB Director and in close collaboration with the Chief,
BFU and the Financial Coordinator, the Accountant would:
(a) contribute to the improvement of the Management Information
and Reporting System for MOA's parastatals and other related
institutions, including the development and introduction of
improved systems of accounts, stock recording, financial
control, and cost allocations and control, unification of
bookkeeping methods, mechanization of accounts, and
establishment of a data bank on the finances and operation of
MOA's parastatals and other related institutions;
(b) assist in reviewing the parastatal plans and budgets, periodic
financial and budgetary control statements and audit reports,
and making recommendations for improvements;
(c)  assist in carrying out in-depth studies on specific financial
and management problems emerging from the monitoring of para-
statals;
(d)  contribute to the elaboration of parastatal and project
monitoring reports;
(e) provide on-the-job and structured training to staff in various
topics in accounting, financial analysis and cost control;
(f) carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of the project.



- 66 -                     ANNEX VI
Page 17 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultancy Staff for PPMB
Management Analyst
The Analyst would be assigned to the BFU. Under the general
supervision of the PPMB Dirsector and in close collaboration with the Chief,
BFU and the Financial Coordinator, the Analyst would:
(a)  advise on application of management accounting principles to
marketing institutions and parastatals;
(b) assist in analyzing the management systems of the MOA
parastatals and related institutions and make recommendations
for their improvement;
(c) assist in reviewing parastatal institutional structures to
identify management and organizational problems and recommend
corrective measures;
(d)  assist in the monthly monitoring of parastatal bank
overdrafts, including income and expenditure analyses;
(e) assist in reviewing the parastatal budgets, periodic financial
and budgetary control statements and audit reports and making
recommendations for improvements;
(f) assist in carrying out in-depth studies relating to specific
high priority financial and management problems indicated by
the parastatal monitoring activities;
(g) provide on-the-job training to counterparts and participate in
short courses and seminars, as required;
(h) carry out any other assignments given by the PPMB Director
with a view to achieving the immediate and long-term
objectives of the project.



- 67 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 18 of 18
Terms of Reference for Long Term
Consultants for Research
Zonal Agronomists
(i)    Qualifications
The Agronomists should have professional qualifications in
agriculture with substantial experience in tropical agricultural
research. The Agronomists should also have had some experience
in agricultural extension and rural development, preferably in
East Africa.
(ii)    Reporting and Liaison
The Agronomists would be posted to the MOA and would be
responsible to the Director of Agricultural Research. They would
also liaise with appropriate staff of the Department of
Extension.
(iii)    Responsibilities
(a) examine, abstract and summarize existing research records
of the research stations in the zone, with initial emphasis
on the major crops currently being grown in the zone;
(b) after discussion with appropriate research and extension
staff, present such data in a form that can be utilized by
agricultural development and extension personnel;
(c)  with zonal extension staff, review existing extension
recommendations in the light of available data, in order to
develop economic and financially attractive recommendations
for the different crops and agro-ecological areas;
(d) discuss current farming problems with agricultural field
staff and provide appropriate feedback to research
personnel;
(e)  assist extension personnel with the design of relevant
demoinstrations and with the execution of crop cutting
experiments or yield trials;
(f) assist the Directors of the Research Stations with the
organizatioin of appropriate field days and workshops; and
(g) assist the Research Task Force with the preparation of its
research proposals in detail for the short-term and its
outline for the medium-term.



- 68 -                     ANNEX VII
TANZANIA
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
IDA              Quarter              Quarterly        Cumulative
Fiscal Year          Ending             Disbursements    Disbursements
1484/85         March 31, 1985                900                900
June 30, 1985               1,000             1,900
1985/86         September 30, 1985          1,100             3,000
December 31, 1985           1,100             4,100
March 31, 1986                900             5,000
June 30, 1986                 900             5,900
1986/87         September 30, 1986            900             6,800
December 31, 1986           1,000             7,800
March 31, 1987                800             8,600
June 30, 1987                 600             9,200
1987/88         September 30., 1987           400              9,600
December 31, 1987             200             9,800
March 31, 1988                100              9,900
June 30, 1988                 100            10,000



I






---   ________________________________________-______-_B 18RD 2802R3
Vr                     -              Yi---~ 83JTA Kt E                                                                     TANZANIA   SEP3eRM
V I C TOPRI A                            KE NY A
'k-DJ<Xeuhbar      must ne,                                 IREGIONS  AND  DISTRICTS
9   ~ ~ ~ ~ 'h- 1 
'''~~~_  r                                            ;                                   ,                                              d 4i\>   _CE 
*   \ < -          Or           \    Malyc r                 Od-a
-yc   g                      Monoi             Moshi
S~~ ~ ~~    ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            AFRICA
' X < /  l                                                                                                                  IA
-/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     4
p_'t\ 'cc                                         X4<-X                                                                   (       (    0'''t,!
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Ng
Kio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
S -g,d X  4                                               0< Rungwr  W   SD   SALAA,N
.,8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
_beyo ~ \   Munag2>_Chunyo   rSooHil                       Kes
i /v>N -\--|   \   Ngomba  +   <          ,      g  XMohenge                           t                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' y -- ~
)_Q   ;uouyo ,Luo embLapemDe 
i~~~~~ r  '4  .'.     ..  o  
70NTES                                                                                OcE SALAAM
.  ,  e rr h.11wz < jf t11/N rI                ro    borrrb Bloys G 
,$ ,'.' .... ' t'' ~~~~~"'g .                            DV\NCil9 0 ,,
3;~ ~ ~ ~ ~~__                                                         t    6 so .-  'O Z A M B QUVE   4cz. 
. .   .  _  _-,g,,                   T



