Document of                       IL   COpy
The World Bank                       FLE Co
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2909-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 25, 1980
This document ba a restricted ditdbution and may be med by recipints oly in the perforance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not oherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authrIaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 2, 1980) 1/
US$1.00   =   N$8.77
N$1.00    =   US$0.114
N$1,000    =   US$114.003
N$1,000,000   =   US$114,025
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
BROU   -     Bank of the Republic
FONDO  =     Central Bank's Fund for Development Investment Financing
IDF    =     Industrial Development Sub-fund of Central Bank's FONDO
PAT    =     Technical Assistance Program of Ministry of Industry and Energy
UA     _     Assistance Unit (Unidad Asesora) in the Ministry of Industry
and Energy
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   As noted in para 31, the Government is pursuing a policy of mini-
devaluations.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
BORROWER           :  Republica Oriental del Uruguay
BENEFICIARIES      :   Government would pass on the Bank Loan proceeds cor-
responding to the credit component (US$29,450,000) to
the Central Bank's Industrial Development Subfund (IDF)
for on-lending through commercial banks and casas ban-
carias for efficient industrial and tourism projects.
Through the technical assistance component, the Govern-
ment would be provided with consulting services
(US$550,000).
AMOUNT             :  U$30 million equivalent.
TERMS              :  Repayable at a fixed 12 year amortization schedule
at 9.25% per annum.
RELENDING TERMS        In respect of the credit component, Government would
absorb the foreign exchange risk between the various
currencies and the US dollar or the local currency,
depending whether sub-loans are expressed in US dollars
or pesos as well as the risks associated with any
decline of LIBOR below the Bank rate, and would make
available the funds through the IDF in the Central Bank
to financial intermediaries in two different ways:
(a) in US dollars at a floating interest rate equal to
LIBOR plus 1% and (b) in pesos subject to indexation
of principal based on domestic inflation with a 0.5%
interest rate. In all cases, an 0.75% commitment fee
on undisbursed amounts would be charged by IDF to the
intermediaries. Final interest rates to sub-borrowers
would be freely negotiated between intermediaries and
the subborrowers to ensure market rates as well as
adequate spreads to intermediaries.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:   The main objectives of the project would be to:
(a) finance productive industrial, agroindustrial and
tourism investments within the framework of Uruguay's
import liberalization policies to improve the inter-
national competitiveness of Uruguayan industrial and
tourism enterprises; (b) help establish project pro-
motion and formulation capacity within participating
private intermediary banks; and (c) provide technical
assistance to the main appraisal unit under the proposed
project (UA) and to industrial borrowers to improve
their production, technology, and managerial efficiency.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
BENEFITS               The project would help the country improve the inter-
national competitiveness of its industrial and tourism
enterprises within the framework of its import liberali-
zation policies. The project is expected to have a
significant development impact through industrial growth,
foreign exchange earnings and savings, employment genera-
tion and institutional improvements. About 65-80 sub-
projects would be financed for a total cost of US$66
million equivalent, and direct employment generation
could exceed 3,200 jobs with an average cost per job of
ITS$20,000.
RISKS              :  The project does not involve unusual risks.  However,
some uncertainty exists about the effects of current
foreign exchange policies on industrial profitability
and investment behavior. This and the new and untried
institutional arrangements, might cause delays in the
commitment period stage of the project.
ESTIMATED COST        Components                 Local     Foreign      Total
--------US$ Million--------
Credit Program            19.78       45.61       65.39
Technical assistance       0.30        0.45        0.75
TOTAL                     20.08       46.06       66.14
FINANCING PLAN    :                             Local      Foreign      Total
Government (tech. assis.) 0.20                     0.20
Bank (tech. assis.)        0.10       29.90       30.00
Project Sponsors          13.19                   13.19
Central Bank               4.75                    4.75
B of A Loan                 1.84      16.16       18.00
TOTAL                     20.08       46.06       66.14
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                         1981      1982     1983      1984
Annual                 4.0      12.0     10.0       4.0
Cumulative             4.0      16.0     26.0      30.0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Uruguay for the equivalent of US$30 million to assist in
financing the Second Industrial Credit Project. The loan would be repaid on
the basis of a fixed 12 year amortization schedule at an annual interest rate
of 9.25%. The loan proceeds for the credit component would be channeled
through the Central Bank's Industrial Development sub-fund (IDF) to commercial
banks and casas bancarias to finance loans made by such institutions and at an
interest rate of: (a) in the case of US dollars, LIBOR plus 1.0%; and (b) in
the case of pesos, 0.5% of adjusted principal indexed to domestic inflation.
Terms would be up to 10 years, including a grace period of up to 3 years.
An amount of US$550,000 equivalent from the loan proceeds would help finance
technical assistance mainly to the Ministry of Industry's Technical Assistance
Program. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk; the commitment
fee to the Bank would be substantially passed on through IDF to the financial
intermediaries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (No. 2706-UR) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in July 1980. An economic mission visited the country in September
and October 1980 to review general economic developments, with particular
emphasis on the agricultural and financial sectors. Its report will be
distributed to the Executive Directors later this fiscal year. A summary of
Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy deteri-
orated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of policies that
favored urban consumption and high-cost industrial import substitution at the
expense of investment, exports and growth. A well-educated and predominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment, better
public services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands took
the form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies that resulted in a sus-
tained transfer of income out of the resource-rich agricultural and livestock
sector mainly into consumption by the urban population. Industrial sector
development, strongly stimulated by shortages of consumer goods during World
War II, was fostered through a deliberate import substitution and protection
policy during the immediate post-war era. However, economic growth faltered
as agricultural production, productivity and exports declined after the Korean



- 2 -
War. Moreover, industrial import substitution possibilities in the small
domestic market were quickly exhausted. Unemployment and underemployment rose
sharply. Government policies aimed at maintaining urban income and consumption
levels resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital flight and serious
misallocation of resources. During the early 1970s, political and social un-
rest marked by urban terrorism and labor strife further discouraged savings,
investment and any initiative to expand output and exports.
4.        Uruguay had instituted comprehensive welfare legislation in the
1920s when the resources that could be obtained from the livestock sector
seemed inexhaustible. Progressive legislation covering such areas as social
security retirement and survivors' pensions, job security, unemployment com-
pensation, free health and education services provided mechanisms for redis-
tributing income. Uruguay was thus able to achieve early a high level of
social progress as evidenced by an income distribution pattern that compares
favorably with that of many developed countries. Although Uruguay experienced
a drop in per capita income during the 1960s and early 1970s, the country has
attained levels that are comparable to those of some developed countries and
above those of most developing countries in health (life expectancy at birth
of 71 years), education (94% literacy rate), and nutrition (per capita intake
of protein of 87 grams per day).
5.        The redistribution mechanisms were not, however, immune to economic
instability--and, in effect, contributed to it. The uncoordinated growth of
the social security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant
economy and rapid inflation, caused increasing stress on the country's re-
sources. Larger transfers from the Central Government were needed to provide
decreasing real benefits to a growing number of people. In addition to the
financial burden on the Government, the high level of contributions required
by the system from employers increased the cost of labor. This high cost,
coupled with the incentives to the use of capital inherent in the import sub-
stitution strategy, acted as a brake on the creation of employment. Moreover,
inefficient administration resulted in an inadequate level of real benefits,
and, together with the old age structure of the population, resulted in a
large number of people working past retirement age (though as retirement was
at 55 years, this was not necessarily a great burden), further limiting
employment opportunities for the groups entering the labor force, many of
whom emigrated to neighboring countries.
6.        Furthermore, during the quarter century extending from the end of
World War II until the early 1970s, high tariff protection and an overvalued
exchange rate fostered an industrial sector primarily geared towards the
domestic market. The accompanying distortions in resource allocation created
an economic environment which was not propitious to the development of export-
oriented manufacturing industries. The subsidies implicit in the above
policies also made possible the survival of inefficient import-competing
enterprises. The difficulty, in many cases, of achieving economies of scale
with a relatively small domestic market was also a contributing factor to the
sector's inefficiency. Furthermore, the import substitution policy created a
bias against agriculture by making the domestic terms of trade unfavorable to
it and by discouraging traditional exports through an overvalued exchange
rate. The combined effect of these factors was reflected in unfavorable trends
in the external sector of the economy. By 1958, the nominal level of Uruguay's



total exports was similar to that achieved in the 1940s (around US$155 million),
while the import level had increased considerably (from an average of about
US$79 million in 1942-46 to US$204 million in 1957-61), and the share of
imported goods in manufacturing output had also increased (from 39% to 50%).
Far from achieving economic autonomy, the import substitution strategy deepened
the dependence of Uruguay on imported goods, and in particular that of its
industrial sector.
7.        The structural changes in the world economy that emerged in late
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy. The threefold increase in
the price of imported oil (Uruguay imports 100% of its oil needs), substantial
increases in other import prices, and the closing of the European Economic
Community to meat imports contributed to a sharp reversal in the balance of
payments, a precipitous deterioration of fiscal performance and to an acceler-
ation of domestic inflation. The economic team appointed in iid-1974 deter-
mined that long-term solutions to the country's economic problems went beyond
stabilization and required a fundamental reorientation of economic management
away from an inward-looking and towards an export-oriented development
strategy. The basic objectives of the new program were the improvement of
resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater reliance on
the price mechanism, and the promotion and diversification of nontraditional
exports, i.e., those other than grains, beef and wool. The achievement of
these objectives required the freeing of domestic prices and the liberalization
of the foreign trade and payment system from the burdensome controls instituted
in the past.
8.        The rapid implementation of export-oriented development measures
yielded rapid and positive results in 1975-79. Government economic policy
during this period concentrated on fostering growth in the commodity-producing
sectors by eliminating various types of controls that distorted resource
allocation, and by achieving a more realistic exchange rate in order to
promote exports. Quantitative and financial controls on imports of raw
materials and capital goods were eliminated; price ceilings on many domestic
products were lifted; interest rates on deposits and loans were freed; and
nontraditional exports were successfully stimulated through a policy of
minidevaluations and the establishment of a system of tax rebates. Reversing
policies that prevailed for thirty years, the government eliminated controls
on pricing and marketing of agricultural goods in the third quarter of 1978.
While the immediate effect of the removal of the ceiling was to increase beef
prices by about 20%, the measure should help in the medium term to raise
investment in the sector and lead to larger supplies. In a continuation of
its liberalization policies, the Government reduced maximum levels of import
duties and surcharges in January 1979, introduced a schedule for further
reductions over the next six years, and adopted the first stage reductions
in January 1980. Ultimately, the Government plans to lower tariffs to a
uniform 35% level, consolidate the tariff collection system, and gradually
phase out the system of protective import reference prices.



9.        The economy responded to these changed policies by achieving an
annual average GDP growth of about 4.5% during 1975-79, or 3.6% Per capita,
compared with an annual decline of 0.2% during the previous four years. In
1979, expansion was over 8% in real terms, the highest annual rate achieved in
nearly 35 'errs. Gross domestic investment also increased from an average of
13.7% of GDP in the period 1970-74 to 18.5% in 1975-79. Production of nontrad-
itional exports, particularly leather and textile manufactures, led the
recovery of the economy in the 1975-77 period and was instrumental in easing
the foreign exchange constraint which had slowed previous development efforts.
Moreover, the policy was instrumental in allowing the flow of imports to
increase. The current account deficit grew from US$190 million in 1975 (5.1%
of GDP) to US$317 million in 1979 (4.4% of GDP), but was more than offset by a
resurgence of foreign, mainly short-term, capital inflows, resulting in gains
of net foreign exchange reserves. Reserves excluding gold increased from
US$73 million in lc75 to US$381 million by the end of 1979, representing
roughly 4 months of imports. Official gold holdings of 3.8 million ounces
had an approximate market value of US$1.6 billion as of end-1979.
10.       The Government's wage and fiscal policies were instrumental in
maintaining inflation during 1976-78 in the 50-60% range as compared to
75-80% in 1974-75. The Central Government's fiscal situation improved
significantly during this period. The Treasury cash deficit was converted
from a deficit equivalent to 4.4% of GDP in 1975 to a surplus equivalent
to 0.7% of GDP in 1979. The strong fiscal performance reflected not only real
cuts in expenditures--particularly on wages and salaries--but also continued
real growth in revenues, mainly from improved import duty collections related
to higher imports and buoyancy in value-added and corporate profit taxes. As
a result of the reactivation of the economy, and the diversity of redistribu-
tion mechanisms, private wage incomes barely changed, with the effects of
increased employment approximately offsetting the decline in real wages per
person.
11.       A reversal of basic price and monetary trends occurred in 1979,
however, as the rate of inflation nearly doubled to over 80%. Among the
factors which contributed to this reversal were:
(i) the greatly increased investment by residents in industry, con-
struction and agriculture, supplemented by a surge of Argentine
expenditures on Uruguayan consumer goods and real estate. Although
both domestic output and imports expanded substantially, capacity
constraints led to a situation of excess aggregate demand and
accelerating domestic price inflation accommodated by the still
high level of redundant tariff protection;
(ii) the large increase in the volume of foreign capital inflows, at-
tracted by high interest rates in Uruguay and a pre-announced
schedule of small exchange devaluations. Dollar rates of return
on peso-denominated assets rose to levels as much as 20% above
comparable short-term rates available in the Euro-dollar market.
Domestic credit resources were also greatly expanded by the deci-
sion in May 1979 to eliminate all legal reserve requirements. Thus,
emerging aggregate demand pressures were reinforced by the new
monetary and financial policies;



(iii) sharp increases in world prices for beef and petroleum, which are
major items in the basket of Uruguayan domestic consumption goods;
(iv)  catch-up increases on a large number of products decontrollc'
during 1978 and 1979; and
(v) drought-induced shortages of domestic food supplies.
12.       The authorities have sought to curb inflation through a package of
fiscal, incomes, exchange rate, and trade liberalization measures. Primary
importance has been ascribed to two of these measures: (1) pre-announced
small devaluations of the peso against the US dollar at rates well under the
difference between international and domestic inflation--thereby allowing the
peso to appreciate in real terms--and (2) the gradual reduction of import
barriers (see Part III for details). These measures are aimed at promoting an
eventual convergence between domestic and international inflation rates.
Medium and Long-Term Prospects
13.       The new price stabilization strategy thus relies on a combination of
supply-increasing and demand-reducing forces--rather than only the latter--to
lower the long-term rate of domestic inflation, while at the same time inducing
a restructuring of the economy toward the most efficient sectors. There is
some concern about the adjustment burden these policies may impose upon the
economy, particularly upon the traded-goods sector, and the long-range effects
of real exchange rate appreciation-if it continues for too long-and uneven
tariff protection on resource allocation. Merchandise exports declined 5.7%
in real terms during the first half of 1980 relative to the first half of 1979,
reflecting chiefly declines in beef and in non-traditional exports (-19% and
-13%, respectively). A contraction of world demand and the continuing
appreciation of the peso were the principal factors affecting non-traditional
exports whereas marketing restrictions have hampered beef exports. (The
decision to accelerate slightly the monthly pre-announced devaluations from
16% over the year ending in March 1980 to 21% in the year ending in March 1981
was apparently taken in response to official concerns about lagging exports.)
Imports rose 15.6% by volume with capital goods and fuels showing the largest
increases (96% and 25%, respectively). Oil stocks declined sharply in 1979
and are now being restored to more normal levels, whereas the rise in capital
goods imports reflected substantial new public sector investment particularly
in energy and transport, as well as investment in the private construction and
import-competing industrial sectors. The current account deficit of US$283
million through the end of June 1980 was nearly as large as for all of 1979,
but was more than offset by approximately US$400 million in net capital
inflows, so that international reserves grew by US$120 million relative to the
end of 1979. Public external debt, including short-term, rose 5% relative to
end-1979 and now totals US$1.1 billion.
14.       The continued overall strength of the economy and recent progress in
reducing inflation have encouraged the authorities to maintain their present
adjustment policies. Data through September 1980 indicate that consumer price
inflation is currently running at around 50% annually with further declines
likely before the end of 1980. Real GDP in the first half of 1980 was 6.5%
above that of the first half of 1979. Growth was led by the construction,



- 6 -
retail services, and agricultural sectors. Unemployment fell from 8.1% as
of end-1979 to 6.6% as of end-June 1980 and real salaries rose 15%. For all
of 1980, it is projected that real growth will range between 5.0% and 6.0%,
inflation between 40% and 45%, and the overall balance of payments surplus
between US$150 million and US$200 million.
15.       The major changes in the direction of economic policy undertaken in
1975-80 and the private sector investment response to those changes augur well
for the long-run development of the Uruguayan economy. The projections
summarized below assume that the Government will continue to foster an open
economy with due regard for the maintenance of a sustainable external balance.
16.       Under such a policy framework, GDP could/grow by about 5% a year
during 1981-84, with gross domestic investment at about 20% of GDP and a
resource gap of about 2% of GDP. Since the populatioa is projected to grow
by 0.9% per year, per capita GDP growth would be a highly satisfactory 4%
per annum. Because infrastructure investment is projected to absorb a higher-
than-normal share of total investment resources--and thereby reduce the amount
available for directly-productive purposes--the capital-output ratio is assumed
to be relatively high, i.e., on the order of 4.5. Based on the likely finan-
cial resource availabilities and the public sector's absorptive capacity,
public sector investment is projected to increase from an average of 3.8% of
GDP during 1976-78 to 6% in 1984. This appears to be adequate to address the
most urgent physical and social infrastructure needs of Uruguay's growing
economy. Corresponding to higher anticipated levels of investment, imports
of capital goods are projected to grow rapidly. However, in view of an
expected pause in the growth of real fuel imports as additional hydroelectric
capacity replaces power now being generated by thermal plants, total imports
in constant prices are expected to grow by less than 6% per year during
1981-84. Real exports, on the other hand, could grow by around 6.3% annually,
provided cost-price relationships are held in line with world trends. This
assumes continued success in expanding non-traditional exports and large
increases in meat exports after 1981 when the livestock investments undertaken
in 1978-79 will have matured.
17.       The current account deficit would average about US$640 million a
year. Gross capital requirements to finance this deficit, meet amortization
payments and maintain prudent minimum foreign exchange reserve levels are
projected at around US$900 million a year. Public sector borrowing is
expected to cover roughly half this need--around US$490 million annually. New
commitments of about US$600 million a year would be required to support the
projected disbursements of public sector loans, of which roughly two-thirds
would come from foreign private commercial banks. About one-quarter of the
financial flows--or US$200 million annually--is projected to derive from net
new foreign direct investment, mainly in real estate and construction, while
the rest would be provided by increases in non-resident banking claims on
domestic banks and by private non-guaranteed borrowing, chiefly suppliers'
credits. Assuming a continuation of the structural changes already initiated
by the Government, Uruguay should be poised for a period of steady growth and
remain creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms. The total debt
service burden (public and private borrowing) plus payments of royalties



-7-
and dividends, although projected to rise from 16% in 1979 to 24% of goods and
non-factor services in 1984, will remain moderate relative to levels reached
during the early and mid-1970s and leave the country with some flexibility to
increase public borrowing, as necessary, should the flow from private sources
fall short of expectations. As of August 31, 1980, the Bank held US$211.4
million of long-term debt in Uruguay, including US$138.8 milliCT'r undisbursed.
The Bank's share of Uruguayan external debt, disbursed and undisbursed,
represented 11.4% of the total. It is anticipated that this share will
decrease over the next several years in light of an anticipated slowdown in
the rate of new borrowing from the Bank and the growing role of private
foreign bank lending in financing Uruguay's external borrowing requirements.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
18.       To date, Uruguay has received US$327.2 million (net of cancellations)
in Bank loans. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance to Uruguay (18 loans in
total) has been for power (32%), transport (29%) and livestock (30%), industry
(6%) as well as vocational training and technological development (3%). IFC
has made four investments in Uruguay: in Fabrica Uruguaya de Neumaticos S.A.
(US$3.8 million) to introduce radial tire production, increase tire manufac-
turing capacity and improve operating efficiency; in Acodyke Supergas S.A.
(US$950,000) to help finance a new liquid petroleum gas bottling plant; in
Astra Pesquerias Uruguayas, S.A. (US$4.5% million in loans and up to US$0.9
million in equity) to help finance an integrated fishing and processing
project; and in Sur Invest Corporation (US$10 million in loans and US$667,000
in equity) to assist this newly established casa bancaria in funding its
leasing operations. Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans as of August 31, 1980,
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
19.       In FY80, a loan of US$24.0 million was approved in December for a
Fifth Power Project, in January a loan of US$50 million for the Montevideo
Port Project, and in April a loan of US$24 million for an Agricultural Devel-
opment Project. In addition to the proposed project, work is underway on a
telecommunications project for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next year.
20.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the Govern-
ment in implementing its strategy for putting the economy on a path of sus-
tained growth. More specifically, the objectives of the Bank's program are
to: (i) foster productive activities by promoting the expansion and diversi-
fication of export earnings; (ii) help strengthen the country's sectoral
policies and public sector institutions; (iii) improve and promote the inte-
gration of the economy with the large markets of neighboring Argentina and
Brazil, as well as as with overseas markets; and (iv) assist the country to
develop policies and programs to diversify its sources of energy.
21.       The proposed project is designed to help improve the international
competitiveness of industrial and tourism enterprises as well as expanding
nontraditional exports, the principal vehicle for economic growth; at the same



8-
time, the project will support simplifying the cumbersome tariff and import
regulation structure and lower the rate of protection, which is necessary to
increase the efficiency of the industrial sector. Lending for agriculture is
designed to continue supporting increased production in the livestock subsector
for exports as well as helping the Government to gradually place greater
emphasis on expanding crop production, while encouraging the government to
follow agricultural marketing policies responsive to the free operation of
market forces. Bank lending for power, telecommunications and transport is
designed to support the Government efforts to rehabilitate and modernize the
country's key infrastructure to foster sustained economic growth, rising in-
come, exports, and employment, and also assist Uruguay's efforts to integrate
with its neighbors (Brazil and Argentina) and its other major trading partners.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Recent Performance and Prospects
22.       After almost two decades of stagnation with GDP per capita declining
1% p.a. between 1955 and 1973, manufacturing industry in Uruguay has developed
a new dynamism with the annual growth in production averaging around 7.5%
between 1974 and 1979. The rise in output of more than 10% achieved in 1979
represented the largest annual increase since 1953. During the last five
years, the sector's performance exceeded that of the rest of the economy and
its share in GDP rose from 25.8% in 1974 to 31.7% in 1979.
23.       The surge in industrial activity is associated with the measures
which the Government has taken since 1973 to reverse the previous inward-
oriented strategy and to open the economy, as described in Part I. Through
1978, the expansion in exports of manufactures was the major element in the
rise in manufacturing output. Starting in late 1978, there were sharp expan-
sions in demand within the domestic market, although some of this probably
reflected indirect exports, and purchases by the large number of Argentine
tourists who have been visiting the country. The expansion of exports was
highly concentrated among non-traditional manufactures based largely on local
raw materials; as compared with 54% of total exports in 1974, these items
accounted for 61% in 1979. Exports of manufactured products (excluding food,
beverages and tobacco) represented about 15% of the gross value of comparable
industrial output in 1978 as compared to 7% in 1974.
24.       Uruguay had traditionally been a major world exporter of both raw
wool and hides and skins. The country has now moved towards the export of
more advanced manufactures of these items, which are sold in the markets of
the main developed countries. This evolution has been most marked in the
case of leather, particularly leather garments and shoes. In the case of
wool, the structural change in exports has until recently been more moderate
but in recent years there has been a substantial expansion in exports of
woolen garments as world demand for these items appears to have risen.
Exports of other manufactured products, such as automobile parts and tires,
ceramics, cement and industrial chemicals have also shown relatively large
increases. Most of these products are sold within the former Latin American
Free Trade Association region, particularly to Argentina and Brazil, and
benefit from regional preference arrangements as well as from the special
bilateral trade agreements with these two neighboring countries.



- 9 -
25.       As a consequence of the growth of manufactured exports, there have
been some modifications in the structure of industry. Export-oriented sub-
sectors (e.g., textiles, clothing, shoes and leather products) increased their
share in total value added in the sector at the expense of sub-sectors depen-
dent upon the local market (e.g., metals, machinery and equipment) or tradi-
tional exporv- (e.g., food, beverages and tobacco). These developments have
resulted in the generation of substantial new employment opportunities. Since
1975, the increase in employment has remarkably paralleled the growth of the
value added in manufacturing in constant prices. Labor intensive branches
such as clothing, shoes and leather products, generated more than 40% of the
increase in employment between 1975 and 1978.
26.       In mid-1973 the Government adopted an industrial investment promo-
tion law to encourage the growth of industries of "national interest". The
main criterion for coverage is the extent to which the enterprise contributes
to expanding and diversifying exports in an efficient manner. The main in-
centive is a reduction of the tariffs on imported capital goods to 10%. Since
the establishment of the mechanisms for administering the law in early 1974,
there has been a substantial flow of requests for obtaining its benefits.
In mid-1980, pursuant to the reversal of price and monetary trends referred to
above, a growing number of enterprises were cautious with regard to expansion
plans, particularly in the case of export-oriented industries whose interna-
tional competitiveness has been affected by the appreciation of the real
exchange rate and the reduction of export incentives. Real non-traditional
export growth slowed in the last two and one-half years to less than 2% annually.
Moreover, the recession in world markets raised some questions as to future
demand growth. For a number of industries which have benefitted particularly
from the relatively advantageous position Uruguayan products enjoy in Argentine
markets or from the flow of tourists to Uruguayan resorts, the special prob-
lems of uncertainty over income growth in Argentina posed additional obstacles
to further investment plans. Similarly, industries which had become dependent
upon exports to Brazil, particularly those items subject to preferential treat-
ment under the bilateral agreement, were confronted in December 1979 with a
major change in their competitive position as a result of the substantial
cruzeiro devaluation and tighter import controls.
27.       However, consistent with the Government's aim of promoting convergence
between domestic and international inflation rates, data for the first nine
months of 1980 indicate that the increase in consumer prices has decelerated
markedly relative to the same period in 1979. With the acceleration of the
nominal rate of preannounced dollar-peso devaluations discussed in Part I,
there are grounds to believe that appreciation of the exchange rate will slow
significantly. This in turn could alleviate industry concerns about exchange
rate policy and encourage new investment. In fact, according to a recent
survey of 99 medium to large industrial firms under-taken by the Ministry of
Industry, intended industrial investment in 1980-82 appears to be quite
substantial when compared to previous years. The surveyed firms indicated
planned investments of close to US$210 million in 1980-82, primarily to
modernize their plants, to improve product quality or to reduce operating
costs. Further indications of a strong demand can be seen in the fact that
the available funds under the first industrial loan to finance export-oriented



- 10 -
projects are currently being committed at a faster rate than in the past and
in the near-doubling of real capital goods imports during the first half of
1980 relative to the first half of 1979.
28.       For the bulk of those enterprises serving the local market, the
shift from the import substitution industrialization strategy to a more open
economy approach should not cause major dislocations. Economically viable
production is possible for a wide range of finished consumer goods and
for many agricultural and construction inputs where economies of scale are
not significant or where transport costs are important. Moreover, as evidenced
by trade patterns during more normal periods, a good portion of Southern
Brazil and parts of Argentina along the Uruguay River lie within a natural
market area for Uruguayan products. Domestic enterprises will, however,
require important investment programs to modernize and improve efficiency and
some have already begun that process. In this connection, a number of firms
would benefit from the liberalization measures, which would provide them with
access to cheaper and better quality imported intermediate goods, enabling
them to compete more favorably with imports of finished products.
29.        There is, nevertheless, a group of industries which have been
dependent in part on excessively high effective protection and which were,
as constituted, unlikely to be able to meet external competition under a more
liberal import policy. Most of these are- among consumer electric and elec-
tronic appliances and mechanical engineering branches that are based on
imported components with low or no tariffs while the final products are
subject to high tariffs. Several of these enterprises have already begun to
rationalize their production, specializing in one or a limited number of
products, and some have been able to develop export capacity. These have
included skill-intensive products such as dies, metal fasteners and simple
agricultural tools which benefit from the availability of relatively inexpen-
sive skilled labor in the country.
30.        The new trade and internal pricing policies are expected to shift
the long-run terms of trade towards agriculture and to encourage greater
investment in, as well as diversification of, that sector. To some extent,
this will lead to the production of many agricultural items which will be
subject to further processing, particularly for export. As a consequence
agro-industries are likely to be among the more dynamic manufacturing activi-
ties in the future and new projects will tend to concentrate in these sub-
branches. Some examples which have already emerged are milk-based concentrated
protein solids and a wide range of processed fruits and vegetables, as well as
the entire group of processed fish and shellfish.
Exchange Rate and Export Incentive Policies
31.        In 1972 the Government introduced the policy of periodic mini-
devaluations in contrast to the prior practice of irregular major devaluations.
Since October 1978, the devaluation has been pre-announced for varying periods
of time. The intention of this policy has been to use exchange rate policy
to reduce inflation as the pre-announced rates have generally been below the
difference between domestic and international inflation. From 1973 through



- 11 -
1977, the measures taken by the authorities resulted in a substantial depre-
ciation of the real exchange rate (15 percent on an export-weighted basis).
With the introduction of the pre-announced rates, the peso experienced a 1.9%
appreciation in, 1978, a 14% real appreciation in 1979 and a further 8% appre-
ciation during the first 8 months of 1980.
32.        While the real exchange rate devaluation played an important role
in improving the international competitiveness of Uruguayan manufacturers
until the end of 1977, the establishment of a number of incentive measures was
also helpful in making the export of Uruguayan products profitable. Under the
"reintegro" program, which in 1972/73 was extended to promote a wider range of
exports of non-traditional products, the percentage of tax rebate offered to
exporters reached as high as 46% of the f.o.b. price for certain consumer
goods products. In 1978 and 1979, however, these rebates were considerably
reduced, declining to around 14% of the f.o.b. value of eligible exports. At
the end of 1978, the Uruguayan authorities sharply curtailed "reintegros" for
certain woollen and leather products exported to the United States, although
retaining the program for exports to other markets. This measure was taken
after the US Government moved to impose countervailing duties on imports of
these items from Uruguay and resulted in sharp declines of these exports to
that market. In December 1979, the government formally adhered to the Code
on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties, making known in an accompanying GATT
Declaration that it intended gradually to eliminate all export subsidies as
from 1982, excepting the reimbursement to exporters for internal taxes. In
March 1980, the Uruguayan authorities reinstated the previous levels of
export incentives for exports. Subsequently, in a June 1980 policy state-
ment dealing with exchange rate and commercial policies, the government
announced its intention to continue all of the reintegros at the current
levels until December 31, 1981, after which they would be gradually reduced to
a uniform level of 5% by 1985.
33.       A second measure to stimulate exports, introduced in 1976, involved
highly subsidized interest rates for financing both production for export and
export shipments. In line with other measures adopted since 1978 to decontrol
interest rates, this system of financing was eliminated in early 1979.
Import Liberalization
34.       Uruguay's import substitution possibilities were largely exhausted
by 1958, while the country's real export level continued to decline for
another 15 years, as unfavorable conditions in international markets for beef
and wool reinforced the export-depressing effects of domestic policies. This
situation produced an appreciable fall in the level of imports (from about
17% of GDP in the late 1950s to 12% during 1965-67), which adversely affected
the import-dependent industrial production. Thus, the manufacturing sector,
in turn, stagnated during 1958-74.
35.       Import liberalization has represented a major objective of official
policy since the early 1970s. A first step was taken in 1975 with the elimin-
ation of import quotas but the major task remained of overhauling the extremely
complex import protection system which includes tariffs, surcharges, consular



- 12 -
fees, port charges, arbitrary reference prices ("aforos") upon which the sur-
charges are applied, and multiple administrative requirements. In December
1978, a decree was issued establishing guidelines to reduce the overall level
of protection through (a) consolidating tariffs, surcharges and special taxes
into a sin?. overall rate which would be lowered to 35% by 1985 on the basis
of equal annual reductions beginning January 1, 1980; (b) unifying the adminis-
trative requirements which are currently supervised by at least four agencies
of the government; and (c) eliminating the "aforo" system. At the beginning
of 1979, an interministerial committee was established with responsibility for
working out the details of implementation. In the course of its work, the
committee recommended immediate tariff reduction to the 35% target level for
about 500 items which were not being produced locally. Substantial tariff
reductions were also introduced for a small number of items where price rises
had occurred faster than justified by local cost increases.
36.       On January 4, 1980 a decree was published, which incorporated the
first stage of the tariff reductions scheduled for 1980 ranging in nominal
terms from around 6% ad valorem on items bearing the lowest tariffs to 13%
on those bearing the highest. A single tariff classification was defined
and single tariff rates were established for these items incorporating the
four previous components--the "normal" tariff, the surcharges, consular fees
and port charges. However, the components were separately identified and in
place of the expected single collection, each of the participating agencies
continued collecting its individual share.   In addition, although the prin-
ciple of applying the tariffs to c.i.f. import prices was established, author-
ity was given to the Minister of Economy to formulate a system of reference
prices in instances where it was shown that dumping was taking place. By
administrative decree in March 1980, a reference price system was established
based on the prior "aforo" system.
37.       The value of imports has risen steadily since the first petroleum
price increase at the end of 1973. During recent years, however, the main
elements in the import rise have been non-petroleum items. In 1979, the
value of imports rose by almost 60% over the previous year, half of which
was attributable to volume increases in virtually all categories of products
other than petroleum. This expansion reflects in part the measures taken
during 1979 to reduce tariff protection. The number of tariff categories in
which imports were registered increased from 4,900 in 1978 to 8,400 in 1979.
Paradoxically, there was a sharp increase in actual tariff receipts as a
percentage of the total value of imports. The latter occurrence can be
explained by the fact that, for a number of products not produced in the
country and not previously imported, reducing the previously prohibitive
protection led to the emergence of new imports at still substantial tariff
rates. Moreover, on imported products competing with domestic production, the
high effective protection afforded by the prevailing system was eroded by the
nearly 16% appreciation of the import-weighted real exchange rate in 1978 and
1979. Because of this, net effective protection declined by more than the
amount implied by the tariff reductions alone. The study of the import liber-
alization process which is to be undertaken in connection with the proposed
loan is expected to examine in more detail the precise nature of the impact of
that process (see para. 57 below).



- 13 -
38.       Continued progress in meeting the timetable for import liberaliza-
tion established in the decree of December 1978, as well as in eliminating
the obstacles which have resulted in only partial achievement of the targets
set for this year, will largely determine, in conjunction with exchange-rate
policy, the future vitality of Uruguayan exports. It will also provide the
surest incentive to upgrade and modernize domestic industry, thereby lessening
the chances of a return to the economic stagnation and social deterioration of
the recent past. The proposed loan is being structured to the tariff reduc-
tion program enacted in December 1978 and provides for a review and analysis
of the progress achieved in reducing tariffs with a view to ensuring that loan
proceeds will have a maximum impact on the process (see para. 57). Contract-
ing of the study would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
The Financial System
39.       The banking system in Uruguay comprises the Central Bank of Uruguay,
three state banks - Banco de la Republica (BROU) the Mortgage Bank and the
Insurance Bank - twenty-one private commercial banks and seventeen casas
bancarias. Casas bancarias are new institutions established since 1977 and
able to engage in all operations open to commercial banks, except obtaining
deposits from Uruguayan residents and offering checking account facilities.
The financial system comprises, in addition, several small insurance companies
(life, fire and maritime transport) and the Montevideo Stock Exchange. Cur-
rently there are no development banks in Uruguay.
40.       The Central Bank was established in 1966 with responsibilities for
formulating and executing monetary and credit policy, supervising and control-
ling the banking system, issuing currency and managing international reserves.
Until 1966, BROU was in charge of central banking activities, and at present
continues to be in charge of some fiscal activities for the Government (e.g.
collection of certain duties and tariffs) and some official foreign exchange
transactions, in addition to commercial and long-term agricultural lending
activities.
41.       Commercial banks were severely affected by several Uruguayan eco-
nomic crises in the 1963-74 period, when the total number of private banks
decreased from 81 to 21 as a result of financial failures or mergers to avoid
bankruptcies. In 1965, the Government prohibited the establishment of new
private banks to help minimize financial difficulties for existing banks.
This prohibition has tended to inhibit competition among banks, which in turn
has affected the quality and variety of banking services. The present Govern-
ment's financial and monetary policies on the other hand, have been reversing
the trend by liberalizing the financial sector, which has given new momentum
to the banking system. Competition and credit volume have increased substan-
tially since 1974 as a result of increased demand for credit and influx of
capital from abroad. Deposits and financial assets have averaged a real
growth rate of 10% p.a. in 1974-79. The commercial banking system's credit
to the private sector has grown by 123% in real terms since 1974. As of
December 31, 1979, the system's credit outstanding to the private sector
amounted to N$ 19 billion (US$2.2 billion), which is equivalent to 34% of GDP
compared to only 18% in 1974. The private commercial banks were responsible



- 14 -
for most of the growth, and as a result, BROU's participation in the financing
of the private sector decreased from 54% in 1974 to 29% in 1979. The recently
established casas bancarias have also participated actively and accounted for
5% of total private credit at the end of 1979. Similarly, the establishment
of a merchant banking-type institution, Sur Invest, with the support of IFC,
may help develop underwriting and equipment leasing operations in the Uruguayan
financial market. Sur Invest would be eligible to participate under the pro-
posed project.
The First Industrial Credit Project
42.       The US$35 million Industrial Development and Export Promotion Proj-
ect (Loan 1176-UR), which was approved in December 1975, originally had two
principal components: (a) US$24.5 million to be used for financing imported
raw materials, spare parts and packing materials used by Uruguayan exporting
industries; and (b) US$10 million for financing industrial export subprojects.
Because of slow utilization of the first component, and of the improved
balance of payments position of Uruguay, US$14.2 million were cancelled in
February 1977, and the previously disbursed funds under that component
(US$10.3 million) were transferred to the subproject financing component. Of
the total of US$20.8 million subsequently available under the second component,
US$18.3 million were committed by August 15, 1980, for the financing of 30
subprojects, with a total investment cost of US$32 million. Additionally,
13 technical assistance subprojects totalling US$0.23 million equivalent have
been approved under the project. The net foreign exchange impact of the sub-
projects financed under the loan is estimated to amount to US$56 million,
equivalent to 1.8 times the total investment costs and to 3.1 times the Bank's
resources.
43.       Under the first project, the Central Bank established in November
1975 the Fondo de Financiamiento de Inversiones para el Desarrollo (Fondo) to
channel long term resources through the banking system for financing private
industrial projects. Experience under the Fondo program shows that the cost
per job has been about US$20,000 (a total of about 14,000 jobs were created
under the Bank/AID program). Initially, the resources channeled by the Fondo
were the US$20.8 million from the first credit project and US$4.6 million from
an AID agroindustrial loan. Subsequently, other lines were incorporated into
the Fondo: an IDB loan (US$15 million) for meat packing subloans and a KfW
loan (US$26.6 million equivalent) for fisheries subloans. Subloans were
appraised by the staff of the Unidad Asesora (UA, the appraisal unit in the
Ministry of Industry and Energy for the earlier and the proposed projects),
and subsequently reviewed and approved by an interinstitutional committee (the
Coordinating Committee) with representatives of the Central Bank, the Ministries
of Finance and Industry, and the Planning Office. As an incentive to interme-
diate and long-term loans, financial institutions were allowed to obtain guar-
antees up to 60% of Fondo subloan amounts from a Guarantee Fund established by
the Central Bank, also under the first project. This two-tier credit system
proved itself a viable mechanism in Uruguay for financing efficient industrial
projects.
44.       While Fondo operations have overall been successful, its organiza-
tion and lack of integrated policies have prevented it from providing a
continuous flow of resources to the productive sector. Each of its lines



- 15 -
of credit has been governed by its own regulations and relending conditions.
Credit lines incorporated after the Bank's first industrial credit and
AID's agroindustrial loans required institutions other than UA to appraise
subprojects with different appraisal criteria and standards (Instituto de
la Carne and Instituto de Pesca for IDB and KfW subloans, respectively).
Moreover, the Fondo has not had local funds to supplement its foreign
credit lines and permit financing of local costs. Now that the two most
active and successful credit lines (AID's and the Bank's first industrial
loan) have been fully committed, the Central Bank intends to establish a new
Industrial Development Fund (IDF) as a sub-fund of FONDO, that has been
designed with Bank's assistance, with new operating policies and procedures
that will be common for all lines of credit. As the first Bank financed
project is still in execution, no OED report has been prepared.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.        A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report for a Second Industrial
Credit Project" (No. 3095-UR, dated November 18, 1980) is being distributed
separately and a Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of this
report. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The
project was prepared in November 1979, was appraised in March 1980 and post
appraised in July 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1980;
the Uruguayan delegation was led by Mr. Carlos Corti, Under-Secretary of
the Ministry of Industry and Energy.
Project Objectives and General Description
46.        The proposed project aims at helping the country to improve the
international competitiveness of its industrial and tourism enterprises.
To this end the project is designed to: (a) finance investments within the
framework of Uruguay's import liberalization policies to improve the inter-
national competitiveness of Uruguayan industrial and tourism enterprises;
(b) help establish project promotion and formulation capacity within parti-
cipating banks; (c) provide technical assistance to the main appraisal unit
under the proposed project (UA) and to industrial borrowers to improve their
production, technology, and managerial efficiency.    This effort would
complement efforts underway in connection with Loan 1594-UR (US$9.7 million),
approved in 1978, which is designed to provide vocational training to indus-
trial workers and assistance for technological research and development for
export-oriented industries, and the work being done by the Centro Nacional de
Tecnologia y Productividad Industrial, which, through a UNDP-financed project,
is providing technical assistance to industrial enterprises in a limited
numbers of subsectors.
47.        Credit would be made available through three types of subloans for
industrial and tourism enterprises: (a) project investment financing, up to
US$4 million of cumulative Bank lending per borrowing enterprise (with maturi-
ties between 4 and 10 years, including grace periods of up to 3 years);
(b) technical and management consulting financing up to US$80,000 equivalent
per borrowing enterprise (with maturities between 3 and 5 years, including a
grace period of up to 1 year); and (c) preinvestment financing, under the
same limits and terms as in (b). As under the first industrial export and



- 16 -
development credit, all subloans would be appraised by UA and approved by an
inter-institutional committee, the Coordinating Committee. In addition, all
subloans above US$500,000 equivalent (the new free limit under the project,
compared to TTS$200,000 under the first project) would be submitted for
approval tc the Bank (Section 4.01(b), (c) and (e) and Schedule 2 of draft
Loan Agreement). Free-limit subloans are expected to amount to about 30
subprojects covering about three-fifths of the loan amount. Under the tech-
nical assistance component up to US$350,000 would be made available for the
following purposes: (A) for UA to hire an experienced consultant in project
promotion and analysis to: (i) prepare material for use of participating banks
in formulating projects and for training of participating banks in project
formulation as required under this project; (ii) help to carry out a training
program for the staff of UA; and (iii) work with participating intermediaries
to assist industrial clients in the formulation of subprojects; (B) for UA to
hire short-term cor.sultants for sectoral and market analyses, procurement
matters and technical analyses for specific subprojects as necessary; (C) to
cover the Government's counterpart contribution for 1981 for the foreign
exchange costs of the UNDP Industrial Investment Promotion Project (a project
with UA); (D) for foreign travel expenditures related to training UA staff,
including visits to development finance companies in other Latin American
countries, in accordance with a program to be agreed by June 30, 1981. In
addition, US$200,000 would be used to finance the study of trade policies
(Section 5.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Execution
48.       The proposed loan for a total of US$30 million equivalent would have
two components: (a) US$29.45 million for investment credit and (b) US$0.55
million for financing technical assistance to the Government. Resources of
the credit component would be passed on by the Government to the Central
Bank's Industrial Development Fund (IDF) to be established as a sub-fund of
FONDO under the project for onlending through commercial banks and casas
bancarias to efficient industrial and tourism projects. The Government would
take the full foreign exchange risk between currencies involved in the Bank
loan and the currencies in which subloans would be expressed (US dollars or
pesos) as well as the risks associated with any decline of LIBOR below the
Bank rate. Under the proposed project, the Central Bank would establish the
IDF, the Unidad Asesora (UA) of the Ministry of Industry would continue
strengthening its organizational structure and project appraisal and supervi-
sion capabilities, and financial intermediaries would be given incentives to
participate more actively in project promotion and formulation.
49.       The Industrial Credit Fund.  The reasons noted in para 44 above
call for the setting up of a unified Industrial Development Fund (IDF). The
establishment of IDF as a sub-fund of FONDO in a form satisfactory to the
Bank and together with the enactment of its policy statement also satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 8.01(a) and
(b) of draft Loan Agreement). IDF would provide financing for industry and
tourism, including small scale enterprises. IDF resources would initially
amount to US$52.25 million, as follows: (a) US$4.75 million originating from
the Government and the Central Bank's original counterpart contributions of
US$2.25 million to the AID agroindustrial loan, and US$2.5 million to the
Bank's first industrial credit loan; (b) US$29.5 million from resources from
the proposed project; and (c) US$18 million from the Bank of America credit



- 17 -
line recently made available. This is part of a loan of US$85 million made by
the Bank of America on October 3, 1978 to the Central Bank at an interest rate
of LIBOR plus 1.25% for 10-1/2 years, including 4 years of grace. The avail-
ability of funds to IDF as called for under (a) would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 8.01(d) of draft Loan Agreement). Loan recoveries,
plus interest and fees income, would be used to serve the Borrower's or
Central Bank's IDF-related debt, and remaining balances to finance further
investment projects and the Central Bank would ensure that IDF's equity value
be maintained in real terms and protected from a possible devaluation of the
Uruguayan peso. IDF's cash resources would be maintained in convertible
foreign currencies or in securities expressed in the same currencies.
50.       The Programa de Asistencia Tecnica (PAT) and Unidad Asesora (UA).
The export and agroindustrial subprojects financed by the Fondo were required
to be appraised by the P'.T, a technical unit established in April 1975 in the
Ministry of Industry, under the supervision of Unidad Asesora, which has been
in charge of administering the Investment Promotion Law of 1974. PAT has
progressively improved its appraisal capability. By 1977 PAT had already
acquired the respect of the financial intermediaries for the high quality of
its appraisal work, which has, overall, given a careful and thorough treatment
to financial analysis, a difficult task in Uruguay due to distortions created
by the high inflation environment. Economic analysis, including employment
and balance of payments impacts, have had a sound treatment and provided a
good basis for resource allocation. PAT's appraisal work, on the other hand,
has been highly manpower intensive and PAT's processing capacity has been
limited. On the average, an individual subloan has taken between 4 to 8
months to appraise. Duplication of responsibilities between the President of
UA and the Director of PAT have created frictions and administrative difficul-
ties; at negotiations, therefore, the Uruguayans indicated that the two units
would be merged as UA under a new administrative arrangement; this is a
condition of effectiveness of the draft Loan Agreement (Section 8.01(e)).
Under this arrangement, UA would absorb all the functions formally handled by
PAT (Sections 4.09 and 4.10 of draft Loan Agreement). To channel more of
resources through the two-tier system, and to reach a larger number of small
enterprises, UA would be expected to delegate most of its present promotion
and project formulation responsibilities to financial intermediaries. Given
the maturity and experience obtained so far by PAT and UA, and the interest
shown by several financial intermediaries, such delegation of authority
appears to be feasible. While three separate departments covering promotion,
appraisal and supervision had been set up under PAT's director, the area of
supervision still remains weak. To strengthen supervision under the project
intermediaries would provide a periodic follow up of the financial condition
of the borrowing enterprises. In addition UA's supervision manuals and
guidelines would be revised and its supervision staff increased. Assurances
have been obtained that UA would be provided at all tines with staff and
resources sufficient to discharge its responsibilities under IDF's programs.
The Government has also undertaken that the salary structure of UA staff would
permit hiring and retention of high quality personnel (Sections 4.09 and 4.10
of draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Participating Intermediaries.  Under the proposed project, financial
intermediaries would be required to carry out promotional work and project-
formulation assistance work. The latter would consist of: (a) helping the
industrial clients in preparing adequate terms of reference for consultants,



- 18 -
ensuring that project formulation will be adjusted to UA's guidelines;
(b) follow-up of consultants' work during formulation, including review of
interim reports to verify coverage and adequacy of treatment of the projects'
most critical agpects; and (c) reception from the consultants of adequate
formulation work that satisfactorily covers the following aspects of the
subprojects: (i) administration; (ii) market analysis; (iii) production-cost
structure and evolution; (iv) financial analysis, including financial rate of
return calculation and preparation of realistic pro-forma statements (balance
sheet, income statement, and use and source of funds; and (v) economic analysis
including economic rate of return calculation and estimation of employment
and balance of payments impacts. The signing by the Central Bank of partici-
pation agreements with at least two intermediaries would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed Loan (Section 8.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement).
Further subsidiary agreements between the Central Bank and participating
intermediaries would govern specific subprojects. To encourage long term
lending operations by financial intermediaries, the Government intends to
maintain the Guarantee Fund (see para. 43) at least during the disbursement
period of the proposed loan, including the feature that the portion of loans
guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund will be excluded by the Central Bank in
the calculation of the debt/equity ratio of banks and casas bancarias.
RelendinR Terms
52.       The Bank subloans and those from IDF's own resources could be
expressed either in US dollars or in pesos, at the option of the industrial
borrowers. Government would absorb the foreign exchange risk between the
various currencies and either the US dollar or the local currency, depending
on whether subloans are expressed in US dollars or pesos. Government would
also assume the risks associated with any decline of LIBOR below the Bank rate
and would make available the funds through IDF in the Central Bank to financial
intermediaries in two different ways: (a) in US dollars at a floating interest
rate equal to LIBOR plus 1%; and (b) in pesos subject to indexation of prin-
cipal based on domestic inflation with a 0.5% interest rate. In all cases, a
0.75% commitment fee on undisbursed amounts would be charged by IDF to the
intermediaries. Final interest rates to sub-borrowers would be freely nego-
tiated between intermediaries and the sub-borrowers to ensure market rates as
well as adequate spreads to intermediaries. (Part A, (a), (iii) and (b)
(iv) of Schedule 2 to draft Loan Agreement). The authorities expect that both
will be at reasonable levels, since there is likely to be adequate competition
given the existence of 21 banks and 17 casas bancarias. In any event, assur-
ances have been obtained that make it possible for the Bank to request consul-
tations with the Central Bank on the operations of the IDF (Section 4.07 of
draft Loan Agreement); this could be the basis for review if excessive rates or
spreads were to materialize. Since repayments for all subloans would be made
semi-annually, the base LIBOR for a semester would be estimated as the arithme-
tic average of rates outstanding on the last 30 days prior to the payment
date. IDF-loan and subloans expressed in local currency would be subject to
indexation of principal based on changes in the wholesale price index as
published by the Central Bank (Schedule 2, A, (b) (iii) of draft Loan Agree-
ment). In the event that price controls should be reinstated, the Government
has represented that it would withhold applications for new commitments of
peso denominated subloans until a suitable agreement is reached on substitute
arrangements for indexation of such subloans (Supplementary Letter). Interest



- 19 -
on subloans and IDF-loans due at the end of a six-month period would be
calculated upon the adjusted principal outstanding. Principal would be
adjusted as follows: at the end of each period, by using the change in the
price index during the period but permitting a lag of two months to allow
sufficient time for the publication of the price index by the Central Bank.
Disbursements or repayments made within each six-month period ; iLl be similarly
adjusted to estimate the balance of adjusted principal outstanding at the end
of the period within which they were made.
Project Cost and Financing
53.       As noted in para. 27 above, a strong demand for industrial financing
is expected during the next 2-3 years, mainly for plant modernization and
improvements in product quality and productivity. Financial intermediaries
would be expected to finance up to 80% of total investment costs, including
foreign exchange costs, while borrowers are expected to finance the remaining
20% with their own funds. Financial intermediaries could refinance up to 100%
of their financing for individual subprojects with the IDF. Total project
cost is estimated at US$66.14 million, with a foreign component of US$46.06
million. The Bank loan would finance about 45% of total project cost corres-
ponding to about 65% of the foreign exchange component. A more detailed
project cost and financing plan are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
Procurement and Disbursements
54.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover the
foreign exchange costs of specific imported and locally procured equipment and
materials, and the full cost of consulting studies, whether the consulting
contract is awarded to a foreign or local consultant. Participating inter-
mediaries would satisfy themselves that procurement items are suitable for the
respective investment projects and reasonably priced, and that the beneficia-
ries had canvassed the main sources of supply and are purchasing from the
most advantageous source. Whenever justified, items would be procured after
obtaining at least three offers and in accordance with standard practices for
this type of project (Section 4.03 of draft Loan Agreement). Since it may
be difficult or too costly to obtain quotations from several suppliers in case
of small orders, the solicitation of offers would be expected mostly for items
that individually cost over US$100,000 equivalent. For the financing of the
technical assistance component, loan proceeds would cover the full cost of
consulting studies and the cost-sharing contribution of the Government to
the UNDP project for financing foreign costs.
55.       The final date for the submission of subproject proposals to the
Bank would be June 30, 1984, and the closing date for disbursement December 31,
1985. Bank funds, subject to the ceilings indicated in para 47, would be
disbursed on the following basis: (a) 100% of CIF costs of imported equipment,
machinery, and permanent working capital (permanent inventories of imported
raw materials associated with increased production); (b) 100% of CIF costs of
imported equipment, machinery sold over-the-counter in the local market and
permanent working capital (to be estimated by UA on a case by case basis);
(c) 40% of the ex-factory price of locally produced machinery and equipment;
(d) 40% of the costs of civil works of investment projects; and (e) 100% of
consulting services. (Section 4.01(d) of draft Loan Agreement.) Since a
two-tier system requires more time for processing subprojects than is normally



- 20 -
used by one financial intermedia,y, disbursements would be made for expendi-
tures incurred up to 180 days prior to receipt by the Bank of subloan requests,
in lieu of the normal 90-day limit. All disbursement requests would be fully
documented, including payments under the technical assistance component.
Accounts and Audits
56.       Under the proposed credit project, the Central Bank would establish
and maintain separate accounts for IDF operations in a form satisfactory to
the Bank. Assurances have been obtained that IDF accounts will be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The scope of such
audits would be agreed upon with the Bank. The audit reports are to be sub-
mitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after the close of each fiscal year
(Section 6.02 of draft Loan Agreement).
Study of Trade Liberalization in Uruguay
57.       Under the project, subloans will be approved and withdrawals
authorized for free-limit subloans, provided that the consolidated tariff
reduction targets, specified in the December 1978 decree, are being satisfac-
torily achieved at any point in time. In mid-1982, a joint Bank/Government
review would evaluate the status of the tariff reform. Continuance of subloan
approval and disbursement authorization for free-limit subloans after the
review would depend on agreement that the objectives of the decree have been
met or will be met within a reasonable time.  Similarly, if before the review
takes place, policies or measures are adopted with the effect of not permitting
or reducing the possibility of achieving the objectives of the decree, the
Bank may withold said approvals and authorizations after consulting thereon
with the Government (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The above
review would be based upon a study that would be carried out by consultants
satisfactory to the Bank, hired by the Ministry of Economy and Finance under
terms of reference, also satisfactory to the Bank. Hiring of the consultants
would be a condition of effectiveness (section 8.01(f) of draft Loan Agreement).
Such a study would be financed under the proposed loan. The study is expected
to be completed no later than March 31, 1982 (Section 5.01(b)(ii) and (c) of
draft Loan Agreement) and the joint Bank-Government review undertaken no later
than June 30, 1982 (Section 5.02 of draft Loan Agreement). The study would
include: (a) levels of nominal and net effective protection (including the
combined exchange rate and inflation impact on effective protection); and
(b) identification of additional protection, if any, due to use of reference
prices different from actual CIF prices or to other non-tariff trade barriers
that may have been imposed. In addition to the objective of establishing
whether targets of the tariff reduction pr^gra. had been achieved, the study
would assess the impact of the Government's policies on industry with the
purpose of providing a basis for reviewing with the Government possible next
steps in its trade liberalization program. More specifically, the study would:
(a) analyze the current levels of effective and redundant protection, and help
to establish, if feasible, a system to monitor trends in industrial costs,
prices, profits, employment, output, and investment plants; (b) assess pro-
gress in implementing the tariff reduction program, including comprehensive
analysis of the effects of reference prices and any other non-tariff measures;
(c) assess the impact of exchange rate and trade policy on industrial competi-
tiveness, resource allocation, and domestic inflation; and (d) propose mea-
sures to cope with dumping and under-invoicing, in ways that will not add
otherwise to domestic protection.



- 21 -
Project Benefits and Risks
58.       The proposed project is expected to have a significant developmental
impact. It would contribute to improvements in the Uruguayan economic policy
framework by supporting the Government's tariff reduction program and by pro-
viding a date. 'jase for the formulation of subsequent trade liberalization
measures. In addition, the project would build on the institutional develop-
ments initiated under the first Industrial Credit Project by: (i) further
strengthening UA's appraisal and supervision capabilities; (ii) helping to
establish a consolidated industrial financing facility (the IDF) in the
Central Bank, with appropriate financial resources and suitable operating
policies and procedures; and (iii) encouraging and assisting interested finan-
cial intermediaries to become more heavily involved in project promotion and
formulation, and to increase their industrial long-term lending activities on
the basis of project analysis rather than collateral security.
59.       The proposed project would help fill a gap in the availability of
long-term resources for financing efficient industrial and tourism projects in
Uruguay. While it is difficult to predict accurately the number and size of
subprojects likely to be financed, experience under the ongoing project during
1975-79, and UA's present project pipeline, suggest that about 65-80 invest-
ment subprojects would be financed for a total cost of about US$66 million.
On a similar basis direct employment generated through the subprojects is
expected to be about 3,200 jobs at an average cost per job of about US$20,000.
Moreover, a significant indirect employment generation effect can be expected
through backward linkages in the agricultural and tourism sectors, and through
the preservation of employment in firms by making investments to upgrade their
production efficiency and international competitiveness. The balance of pay-
ments impact may also be substantial, since a significant proportion of bene-
ficiary firms are expected to be exporters. In line with previous experience,
the economic rate of return for most subprojects is likely to exceed 20%.
60.       The proposed project, as conceived, does not involve unusual risks.
However, some initial delays in loan utilization may occur because (i) some
uncertainty exists about the impact of the current foreign exchange policies
on industrial profitability and investment behavior; and (ii) some of the
institutional arrangements established under the project would be new and
untried, especially the increased responsibilities of intermediaries. Moreover,
some delays may occur if there is a delay in meeting the tariff reduction
targets on time. To minimize delays in project implementation, Bank supervi-
sion of, and assistance to the project would need to be most intensive during
the first year of operations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and the
Bank together with a letter supplemental thereto and the Report and Recom-
mendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV (iii) of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 22 -
62.       Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III, The following are the special conditions of effectiveness: (i) the
Central Bank's Board of Directors would have established IDF with a policy
statement satisfactory to the Bank (para. 49); (ii) the Central Bank would
deposit within IDF an amount equivalent of not less than US$4.75 million
(para. 49); (iii) the Central Bank would have signed Participation Agreements
with at least two intermediaries (para. 51); (iv) that the consultants to
carry out the tariffs study have been hired (para. 57; and (v) that all action
with respect to the reorganization of UA has been taken. In addition under
the project, subloans will be approved and disbursements for free-limit
subloans authorized, provided that the consolidated tariff reduction targets,
specified in the December 1978 decree, are being satisfactorily achieved at
any point in time. In mid-1982, a joint Bank/Government review would evaluate
the status of the tariff reform on the basis of a study (para. 57).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 25, 1980



- 23 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                       t1REUICE GROUPS (WEIHT,ED AEVYGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                                    - MOST RCRE  ESTl ATE)
TOTAL           177.5
AGRICULTURAL    154.6                               ISDT RECENT            KMDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 k ESTIMATE kb   LATIN AMICA & CARIBREAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                630.0       870.0   1610.0                  1384.1                  2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGPAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    825.0      930.0   1054.0                   1055.9                  1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.5        2.8       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 80.1       82.1     83.6                    63.4                    53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     4.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MIlLIONS)                       4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      14.0       16.0      16.0                    28.1                    77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    16.0        17.0     19.0                    81.7                   129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        28.2       28.7      27.6                   41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                       64.4        62.6      62.5                   54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  7.4        8.7       9.9                      9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTYH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.5         1.1      0.3/c                   2.7                     1.6
URBAN                             2.8         1.3      0.5                    4.1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.0        21.0     20.0                    34.8                    22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     9.0        9.0       9.0                    8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.4         1.4      1.4                     2.5                     1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.0      107.0    101.0                    106.9                   113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 117.0       120.0    114.0                   107.4                   125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         94.0       98.0      87.0                   65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      68.0        65.0     54.0                    33.7                    39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     4.0         3.0      3.0                     8.4                     4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   68.0       69.3      71.0                   63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         ..      46.0                   66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       92.0      98.0                    65.9
URBAN                              ..       100.0    100.0                    80.4
RURAL                              ..       59.0      87.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        82.0     83.0                    62.3
URBAN                              ..       97.0      97.0                    79.4
RURAL                              ..        13.0     17.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          962.0/d    920.0    710.0                   1849.2                  1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..     3478.0        ..                  1227.5                   929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           180.0       170.0    241.0                  480.3                    289.7
URBAN                              ..         ..    212.0
RURAL                              ..         ..    704.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..                      ..                    17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             3.8/         ..      3.6
URBAN                              ..         ..       3.6
RURAL                              ..         ..       4.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.5/e       ..       2.1
URBAN                             1.5/e       ..       2.1
RURAL                              ..         ..       2.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            78.0/e       ..      80.7
URBAN!                           88.0/e       ..      89.2
RSIAI                            29.O.         ..     27.8



- 24 -
Paste 2
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE ARS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           HIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIlfATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0        106.0      95.0                     99.7                      105.9
IIALE                111.0       108.0       95.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE               111.0       103.0       94.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 37.0         57.0      60.0                     34.4                      64.0
MALE                  35.0        51.0       55.0                     33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                38.0        63.0       65.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  23.0          21.0      19.0                      38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0         29.0      23.0                     30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          13.0           ..        ..                     14.5                      26.1
ADLULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..        91.0      94.0                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         39.0         43.0      45.0                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        305.0        388.0     510.0                    245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.0         87.0     113.0                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    *-        140.0        *-                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0            ..         ..                      ..                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAINDS)     1014.4       1140.1    1114.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   24.6         27.5      29.0                     22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              21.0         15.0      12.0                     37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.0         31.0      33.0                     23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                40.1         38.6      38.5                     31.5                       40.9
MALE                                 60.6         56.4      55.5                     48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                               19.7         21.1      21.8                      14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         0.9        1.0                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          51.3/f      .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          4.0/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         13.3/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..     319.0                    190.8.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     471.0                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     471.0                    332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (F'C-"T'7
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      30.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   UInless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Doe to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e 1963;
/f 1967.
April, 1980



- 25-
toa3
DEIP_ITTONS OF SOCTALID OfIATh
Notes:  Although the data ar  dean fro  sources..  g-seraly judged th. most aothorltartv- ond reliable, it should also he notd that they may eon he tote-
aonvio..alyeompatahle because of the~ hock of sta-d-odieod defietnloes sad concpts usd hy differete-teonoies te eullactiog the data. The data aro, none-
theless,.. usfol no dauceihe orders of ucuantode. idicots tood, cad oh-rut-eiee  -entai  -J.ee diffeeeaoes hbsnet eutree
The eefeea-  ge-pe ace (1) the s-m  ceustey group of the auhbo-t c...ty op sd (2) a ....srey g-oup aith somehat higher  -Isegs beams Lhba tha ouatep group
ofthe suh)eteeuatey (eace Pt foe  'Capitel  u-pl-a Ott Eptopertees  geoupahees 'Middle Teces  North Aftire sad Middle fast" Is ohosee hbcu- of stronger
soio -an 1s affialt ies).  1o sheb efrere  rop dsts the                   I.rge   e  population enighted arithastle men  for emah iadiatee sod shoe  only sh.e at
Il.s.f held of the eonnle   tI geoup has dana foe thst isditesnr.  tines she  -ae-gs of -setetee  -mag the indli-nees depends no the acllehitiy of
data and  Is aat us.         -idom ane  mee  he sasr.ia   iIn eeatiag sorsgesa one..  iadlestor to soother.  These s-eesg    see arty usful i   -up-eiog tha value
of en tdIcao   an a rme  mg tecetey end fednenc  groups.
L.AND AREA (tho.sa.d  iy.)rpuata  per f'hys-ofa   -PplTla   dioladd by name  cc ptacrtiong pep-
Tetel - Teteltu1     a. aeaapelieig lend area sad i.lend asters.siaeqalfd cea medical shaol at                                                      I uenc   leve.
Agrtislwrutl - fEeltoc aagrio-Inera1 aes used aemparst.  at PItmaey                         "Pealaia  per Nsrl          --sea-   Ppoplatiee dioded hy enher ad peacnicieg
fee crops. p  t55mm, macht sad kitchen gseds Ior nolefaln   19'77cdta,                      mae cad fenal  geaduate na-e, practical nurses,. and..antenre...
peotiertfniaNd-naa.th.a-rural - Ppulation  (ental,
GNPf PEE CAPITA (fiS) - lNP pine capita asimtes at contet mafkt pnires,   l-                     aes,anbua)  iie  b   hirrsetl    ahofa hospital heds
eulsted hy san  ----eesios methed as Woeld Nash A~tlas (1976-78 hanis); 19ff,                 avilble in publio and peivete gen-a  sad sPecialieed hespita1 and en-
19T, and 1978 data.                                                                           habilitratlee esetmo.  H-splatalse-s-smlishmsts pse- teely staffed
ttfftT CNNIttTIC PflCAPTA- Aasi asssptesad  eteecelenegy(oel            by a    et .-n physils.-   sEsh.llshmetr  preoldig prineipally ...stadisl
PLERGY _ CONSUMPTION PEP, CAP~~~~~~~ITearn  re netleIofdd. rsrl h-spta,henevr,ii-lnda hesith and sediea1
and 1lgnitte, pesealsn, etalgas and hydra-,  -una-  esd geatheena  else-                       canteenou ear psmaently staffed hy I physiteis  (hut hy s nedicel ...nstltas
teiloity) in kilogIram  of eoal equi-slean yet csplea; 19ff. 1970, aed 1978                   eunse, midetf, see.) chieh offee in-patient a-aadto   ad pr-cide a
data.                                                                                         limited range at medies1 farilit'ies.  Pee nt.iatiesla  purp.... urhen hospi-
tals iaelude Alis priaeipsl geenral nd ap-cislined hanpltsls, ead eura1
POPULATI0ON AlND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 o iI,Ic1o    I1h.i.]    .     dc1-                        t-t     o..
Tatal Papalatina. Mid-Tea  Iillam)- As ad July 1; 19h0. 1970. and 1979                      Admisslase pe  fanpital Ned - T.n .IumbIe  of adnissi... teatr di-ciage-
data.                                                                                       foam hanpitals dIvided hy the euche  of heds.
than Pprlarlon Irprcet oftontal).- Rate. ad urha  to trI-l plals
diffmesrt dnfinlrtis  at arban aea  asp ayffect eamparshilfty at data                   fouinlf
anag astee;19ff, 1970, sad 1978 data.                                                     Avrs   lea   ashl   rrasceiaeed       aa,aias, and ee
Pepalenten Peajsanlaas                                               A househol~~~bd essie-  ad a grasp ad individuals  h. share living quat-e
Papulaiten Ia year 20ff - Current papalasias prajaceleas see hased eaI 19ff  sed their mete m-I..  A baedee or ledger may or may oat he  a,luded In
total papclatien hy age sad .-a and thait mrtaltey and fertility rates                    the haeshold  atrerstistiea1 peepae.-
PI,ajeetfan paramter  ta Ed.  - lity retenI eneptis  a f three11.  ....e.sue            evea  bnuhe  of reespeee -.  ,tarl. arhan. ad easl   Average  tt
in8 lid  onpectaey at bien   ieeaia  nih e-uatry'I par esp ita lec-m                       e   dprosprta Pc all erho_   and ceral reuied eaaetta...
level,aed feale lie enpatancy   thilial    t 77.5 yern.  Th. peta-              d.elli.gt, re-p-riv-ly.  Dwel1isge seclude  .. pas-pe .m t etouctes- and
mtrs far fertility care also have three  level  saamtiog deel ide In                    unaceupied reat..
f.rItlit y  _cr ding to ic     I leve  andpan  feally pleasing peofemce.                 ,eas  s   -letnfiey feer..aI a  deelli  Ie  -trael.  -rban had rural1 -
Each cac..tryistesegedaed t               heseII   ala  eohstln      f martelity         C.enven_tianal dellag  st  electriett  is living q_at_r  as               c.
and fertility teends foe ptajnetion purpates                                              of tat1, urban, and earn1 dec11itgs  epeley
Stastanac  eorultrian - 1 In  stationary  .paplati- there i Isdn growth  ine-
the hicth rate in equal to the death rate, and also theuneEDnUC- OlATION
mains co.necan.  Thin is achi_vd uly atnee fertility rtes dcline to                     Adiunted  nEa-Ieet Ratlas
the raplacemet level  of  sia net rnpredaenieo rare, wi.  each genate                      rimac  nehool - ttl,sleed fl-ScenGI..t total  mal  an.   d femle
eIf _me  enpla... Itself  ..cotly .  The annteacep population nine oa                       Iaolcra   ll age  at thn primary Iec-I as pero..ntagat of repertl-
antinstnd as the hests of the projected eharactic tinac  at theppb          tte             piay  aeles ppuarat;artip  slan  cid a  aet-Il
is the year 200f, and the Inte ad d-elien ad fertility careto I spt-                        years. bus adjastfdta   dffeoren   lsgtbs at primary eduratian; far
-at  evl                                                                                 coneans  nleeleusra   nolet may ..a..d 1SfP- p..n.t
Y-sastatio..aro raulatian is reaahnd - The y-a  nine stattato  pepulatien                      nl..  sees. puils are-. deleorihav  ab  at r       i ec11      ae
n,ina has lena rescindl                                                                    S... naday eehal - ntal.1. nals ad female - Computedneaha-;a.....daoY
Per  n. ha.  -MId-yea  popalatia  Pee squat  kilometer (101 hactatas) at                      prvd..    geerl                 foeanissl, a   oefha   training   rinattytn   fotrucpay
Peetso  ha.. a"tI'rllnd-Cmue   sshv   e                       tulaa   eduully ad 12 to 17 paces aoae;f                               resadee   case   e  generall1y
P l.r  -anelclualln                 .ptd  .b-frgi.1..    .d. udyed.
VaaIe'  a  erllmet (PnreIt ad seonday) .- tiann Iantitutiote
Paralatte TL)Ace Itruatuon _(Renr-es    - Children (0-14 years)     ,,, eahia-n   711-           inelndEsNebat-e, indetela i       re. arharP I hgam iach epenfe indnpea-
b4 year)  aed r ded ...    ..yar  aedov) on parce..na ot amid-year Palo-                       dently atra  depsentens  of secondaryioeates
1nties; 196g. 1971, aId 197f'data.                                                          Purold-teee  cat      rimay   a  -Seeedety -Tata1 srudeetsnarel1d is
Poesltlas Ireth Rate lern tl   ats  - Aetea1 gr-tth risof ntal. aId-                           Pcoimy end s-eade  levels divIded hy aanbae ef tna..hee   i  the
yesr papultias fee 195060-ft  196f-70, -Od 1970-78.                                            eartespendingleol
Paus _e rhe fate (pere...t) - aeba  - Annual1 gaaath rates of urhue rpeP-               Adult li_rac  eats (per....t)- Literate dat.sl  (eble to read aud een-)
latiane dot 191-gO,t1fi-710, ad 197.-7g                                                              P .  sepretags at tata1 adult papulati- aged 11 yeara end over.
trade birth Eas  leer toasad) - Ae--- 1live hieths per  han..sad of mid-year
bad  Naa  fae  er rhuad) - Annua  deaths par thauseed ad mid-pear                          Panacas    Care  on  ehuanand                     ..n.t..)     aegar cats canris  sonar
Gpopnlntian; 19ff, 1970, and 19 78 dan.t                                                      cc  seattgInns tha  eight parse n; caladne ambulances, h',e,,s and
leas   N   dcialate-Average . nuberof daughters a unma   ill hear in                         niiay vehcle.
her narma   eProd-civ       . peiodit ahs eaperiances PIr....t uge-sporific fee-          ladleR  If_esve  (Pre  thousand earulatiar) - All typ-n of ..e..ns  ar dr
stIl yIIscs; usually five-year averages ending io 19 ii, 1971, ned 1977.                    hroade...tn ta general  public per theanand.ad papulaties;  ..cludefocll-"
Fan.ly Pla..nna- Aecacanes A.. Inoa  (thau-sada) -                _aa ebee  o ad ..ccafteo     ceasd recever  In ea...tri-a and in yers when  -egittesian of 'Idi, "I
of hieth-.anntel devI..n u.d.e  ..u.p..I at seian1 family planning Poafm.                   va   teffect; data fee recen.t yeses may ora  he camparoble sin- nest
raeilv Planetna-Ilsers  (rereen f at  neiad cnn  Parce-sage of  -ried                oa-artns ahllehed 1Iens~
cesof child-baurleg age (15-44 ynsrn) she ne  hieth-eat-al devices in                  IVtdaer..e tnaed paslte)-V   ecvesfrhadett
all marIe.d  _ao  is sam  agt group.                                                         geanen1 pubici peeh thae-Aa   pepulntian; estladannnenndTV reciver
Pff0 AltO NITIITIfN                                                     tacauna~-rtes and in years  henenitet            ofa TO sets wa  to efface.
laden of Feed P-ad-cla per Ceits (699-71-100) - laden of Pee capita  aaa -.                     se.I    Crelia  (eart .. thasn I-,perlsfn   - Oboes ptheevdrig  lies-
praduectie  of all food oaa_odinie.!P_ed-oica ecludne need ned deed  ed                       i.tiesa  "daily genra rly iteeIe.w.. pee"* da  IncA  as in peri        idicl  ub
i~   I..d b C-dit.. co-I pIi.Iy good. (I.. ug.r....                  so he "daily0 if it appnaes an I.oat fear nines a week.
insdof _unar)    h      Ie   r  eti od eaetai tenrlats  (e.g. ectdf- aed              Ciatn  An..asl Attendance pre  C.ita Par- Yee-nasa..d en the nuber at
isa are sacludnde).  Aggrefate pradeott   at_ ea ch eeasery is baaed  t                    -tickers sold daring the year, inalading admissions ta drive-is citetn
aantia..  avraga produe.I priec  _eihts; 1961-h5, 197 0, and 197f duo..                       .    bl    i.
Par capitasurely of clre   (peresart efn-uleem..etaf - Cespeend denanr-hl  ais
...sogy eqaiva-t ad ace fotad supplies available io....try  Pee r-plea                IhFt ORCE
par day.  Avatlehie supplie-emes  demai  pedoIe, imports lent                           Total Lbar Fats(hnss-                              - cnnelyativ-pees   nldc
tuprr, and ohasge  in  tract,  Nct norI:tcp1 n  eclde aeimal feed, tends               amenrd faece  aed o,=Jp,ayd hut ..eelading haa-nciv-,  tnodeotn,ec
I          tr er   ainacd by PAll isnd o hysilolge ca1 needs for nra   cel-           17   ae
city and health cead-rig                     -crrnca   ap-cesre. body erght  5f 0.      Fena7e deete      anl   su   eeespoeteso   oa  lhrfr
and te  dierthanln  of ppulne)ica, ard aletn10Prnt  o   atee                       niclna(p-ernt) - Laber farce in fain.  tarestry, hantieg and
houshold leve; 19hi-ki, 197f. and 1977 dare.                                               fiahing an percentge at tnset labar fre_; 19h0. 1970 and 197f data.
Par cari        f suppy .a erlin    am.   day) - Prretecan.teat of par c.pit.        !qd-sry (rarcea   - Laher ferre ia sling-,  oantrut ..ti ., I nataftnorieg
act Iuppp ef ded  e  day.  Net supply ot toad Is dafineda  ato              .-In       -  ade relywtred genespercntag  aft s 1a  ahotr frce; 1980,
qairem...a tacfo  Il accien entshliahed hy USDA poide for minimum7    .    98  .
allowanc  at 60 fran   ad I ca   reit Perday d 20 grant of soisal sad                     1970 sad 197f data.- .It.i.Ii. 
pulse protein, of which 1  gce.. than.  heaIaIrri.Teasad                                    ciiyetaseend bas rena, mae,ae  fm le bhr farce a
aeds aen loner  ha, these of 701tgree  o "toa  pan            o 3 gree   fpret of                       ofsTi asan   eaepplatIo   of all ages r-p-ett-ly;
animal presla as aaeerage fr the noed, peopasd hy FAO it the Chited          1960, 1970. sad 1975dr.Ths  are nILO's pnrtieipatiees-nrntlI-ttng
W-1ld Peed Survy; 1961-hi, 1970 and 1977 data,                                              ge-eIcarr   tsepplain   n   ogtm    ra.A denani-
Pee capita prestsi soerly tena In   an  eln   - Pro ed   supply of tend de-                    .......I-meanfaretra   ans pnalsc tee..,d    .gt-t   d                
riced from  antet1l  aed pulses it  en  pe  dy;1h-S   9fad177Idat.    cEanictindny  al  - stie ad papolerios andee 11 ned i5 and ove
Child (.a.. a-hf aoetelcty Rot. free thaasasd( - AnualI donths pee thaun..ndan.                to the  Iea  lahaR tr
ago grou.p 1-4 yer, no hildren in thint age group for eas dev-Ieplogr..etlI-
ep ics data I d _lvd  frmlf   alt   91 90 aef 1977 deta.                                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Peccnine ofPri Ise  eam   (tech ft canh sod k1ind) - lnceivnd by richest
Life Tapcae    eneh                   -Aeaeoshro   ae   tlf   eann                              5 pe--ane, efch-mt2t peeet , poorest 20 percen t, nod p--es  40 partia
e l thivt;191,19'l ae(pd ..7. data.
lafeor farrlisy fac  (pr tbeoua.dl - Actual dnahn of codfcr. under a.. year    POVERTY FARG0T GROUPS
of age per cteaso  lIve btIth.                                                            ItmtdIult   art   reeLvl(S   e   ala      ra   n   ua
Numiar of people (ftota, orho, aed rural)               .  ... e banale  ccn  so..   saf     aertnludeq-tr  diet pla  essentia,Jl ann-food requie....ts in  ot0
outer supply (i-elodenr e   sufac.atr  or untroated hot -oe-otamlasrd                        a_ffrditi
eater uo-h an tha,-t from   pcetce  bharehlen   yIog, and sanitary uI'le  an               ltimatad featice Poverty Iecam- Level (US ear eapite) - abat and earn1 I
pIceraga of  heir en-p-etl-  .paplat-rcarn                  I..1.t  t  rh Iaespbhli          lcleate porytoneIolioe-hird o   vrg   e   spe
fo..atato or atacdpast lecated ape vets ateI0 enafo                   house na-y ha           I- paes talaoesaotyhacetotty.         Prbelvntsdtie   tea rbs  ura
--iudnrrd as helen virhie     .  _bspnle  _cceaof that tense.  Ic rualata                    leve w7Ithedat t far higha  cn  of li~ivg in urhan arena.
do cot tac  to  Iped I dinprepartl..act  pact at the day iI dothitun tinadccl-mee   fpplro    uha   n   us)vase"haunpa"
p000  ma  lelud   ft  culeoiat cod disp-nl, oath oceiecnncea                                                   icct  Aayst  adPoeeia   Nprttnet
pIh'nnccrnd  -ar-n--e  by ea-e-heon- ny--enc  se ...of                                                                           April, 19N0
piIror   n  elalar tentllaic_



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1594 Vocational Training and Technological Development: US$9.7
million; June 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 27,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Construction of the laboratories for the technical institute is expected
to start in late 1980. The technical assistance program for the same compo-
nent is under way. The Vocational Training Council is gradually initiating
its activities.
Loan No. 1689 Second Highways: US$26.5 million: June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: December 27, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Good progress has been achieved in tender process of civil works; execu-
tion started in August 1980; the initiation of the consulting services is
somewhat delayed but well in hand. Because of limited devaluation and high
inflation the construction costs expressed in US$ will be higher than expected.
Loan No. 1779  Fifth Power:  US$24.0 million; March 6, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
This loan has not yet become effective.
Loan No. 1798  Montevideo Port:  US$50.0 million; March, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
This loan has not yet become effective.
Loan No. 1831  Agricultural Development:  US$24.0 million April 22, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
This loan became effective on August 21, 1980.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - September 30, 1980
Fiscal                                     Type of         (Amount in US$ million)
Year             Obligor                  business        Loan    Equity    Total
1976     Fabrica Uruguaya de           Motorvehicles      3.80       -       3.80
Neumaticos                   and acessories
1979     Acodike Supergas S.A.         Chemicals and       .95       -        .95
petrochemicals
1979     Astra Pesquerias              Food processing   4.50       0.90    5.40
Uruguayas S.A.
1980     Sur Invest Casa             Money and capital 10.00        0.63   10.63
Bancaria S.A.               market
Total gross commitments                         19.25      1.53   20.78
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          0.71       -       0.71
Net held by IFC                                 18.54      1.53   20.07
Total undisbursed                               12.50     0.95   13.45
C.   Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1166-UR  Fifth Livestock Development, US$17.0 million, October 15,
1975; (Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1976; Closing
Date: March 31, 1981).
The project is almost completed. However, major problems have arisen
which will have a strong negative effect on credit demand for the PLAN com-
ponent of the new loan (1831-UR). Levels of salaries and internal difficul-
ties of PLAN are causing considerable turnover of staff, meat prices and
slaughter demand have dropped since last supervision while costs of inputs
have increased. Pasture establishment and improvement for beef cattle will
be minimal in 1980, but investments by dairy producers are continuing.
Loan No. 1176 Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project: US$20.8;
December 4, 1975; (Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980).
Project commitments are expected to exhaust the remaining US$4.3 millions
in Bank funds before the end of 1980.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of August 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower              Purpose                 Bank    Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                    155.1       -
1166    1975  Rep. Oriental    Fifth Livestock
de_ Uruguay       Development                  17.0       0.3
1176    1975  Rep. Oriental    Industrial Development
del Uruguay       and Export Expansion         20.8       4.3
1594    1978  Rep. Oriental    Vocational Training and
del Uruguay       Technological
Development                   9.7       9.7
1689    1979  Rep. Oriental    Second Highway
del Uruguay                                    26.5      26.5
1779 1/ 1979  Administracion   Fifth Power                      24.0      24.0
Nacional de
Usinas y
Trasmisiones
Electricas
1798 1/ 1980  Administracion    Montevideo Port                 50.0      50.0
Nacional de
Puertos
1831    1980  Rep. Oriental       Agricultural
del Uruguay        Development                 24.0      24.0
Total (net of cancellations)                    327.2    138.8
of which has been repaid                      115.3
Total now outstanding                           211.9
Amount sold                 4.8
of which has been repaid  4.3                   0.5
Total now held by Bank                          211.4
Total undisbursed                                         138.8
1/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -                                        ATTACEfENT I
P,ge 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual            Estimated        Projected       Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GDY
1976    1978    1979        1980        1981      1984    1970-74   1975-79   1981-84          1976      1979       .'84
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                     AL 1978 Prices & Exchange Rates
Gross Domestic Product                     4,510   4,780   5,182        5,441       5,713    6,614         -0.2     4.4          5,0      100.1    100.1       100.5
Gains from Terms of Trade (+5                  -5       0       -4        -63         -56       -30          -       -                     -0.1      -0,1       -0.5
Gross Domestic Income                      4,505   4,780   5,178        5,378       5,657    6,584         -0.7     4.9          5.2      100.0    100,0       100.0
Imports (Incl. NFS)                          797      970   1,225      1,226        1,221    1,443        -0.5    13.6          5.7        17.7      23.7       21.9
Exports ( "      " )(Import Capacity)        791      913   1,007       1.045       1,097    1,318         -2.2    11.0         6.3        17.6      19.4       20.0
Resource Gap                                    6      57      218        181         124       125                                         0.1       4.2        1.9
Consumption Expenditures                   3,720   3,993   4,399       4,471       4,638    5,386            -      2.7         5.1        82.6      85.0       81.8
Investment Expenditure (Incl. Stocks)        791      844      997     1,088       1,143    1,323         -3.8    26.2          5.0        17.6      19.3       20.1
Domestic Savings                             785      787      779        907       1,019    1,198         -6.6    24.7         5.5        17.4      15.0       18.2
National Savings                             697      717      737        848         920    1,041         -6.5    34.4         4.2        15.5      14.2       15.8
MERChANDISE TRADE                                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                 Toture-
Expenditure
Import s
Capital Goods                              108      105      155       200         243       365        -9.9    20.8         14.5        18.4      12.6       13.0
Intermediate Goods (Excl. Fuels)           273      420     696        825         916    1,537         21.5    26.2         18.8        46.5      56.5       54.8
Fuels & Related Materials                  181      217     302        520         600       763        44.7    13.3          8.3        30.8      24.5       27.2
Consumption Goods                           25       33       77        95         109       139        20.1    30.9          8.4         4.3       6.4        5.0
Total Merch. Ixports (cif)                 587      775   1,231      1,640       1,868    2,804         20.7    22.0         14.5       100,0    100.0       100.0
Exports
Primary Products (Excl. Fuels)             314      352      361       510         711    1,127         12.0    10.2         16.6        57.4      45.8       53.9
Manufactured Goods                         233      334     427        480         607       962        28.4    32.4         16.6        42.6      54.2       46.1
Total Merch. Exports (fob)                 547      686     788        990       1,318    2,089         14.2    19.7         16.6       100.0    100.0       100.0
Tourism and Border Trade                    68      137      268       370         450       715         8.3    28.6         16.7        12.4      34.0       34.2
Merchandise Trade Indices                                        1978 = 100
Export Price Index                        89.0      100   121.2      148.8       171.2    227.7         22.5      9.7        10.0
Import Price Index                        90.5      100   121.6      162.9       187.4    238.2         24.4      6.9         8.3
Terms of Trade Index                      98.3      100    99.7       91.3        91.4      95.6        -1.5      2.6         1.5
Exports Volume Index                      89.6      100    94.8       91.0        96.0    109.6         -6.5      9.1         4.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                        Annual Data at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rates                                                  As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                  647      607      623       685          712    778.0        -1.9    -0.1          3.0        15.7      13.2       12.8
Industry and Mining                        1,209   1,361   1,498       1,543       1,574  1,875.0           -       6.4         6.0        29.3      31.7       30.9
Services                                   2,267   2,393   2,606       2,762       2,954  3,413.0          0.2      4.0         4.9        55.0      55.1       56.3
Total                                      4,123   4,361   4,727       4,990       5,240  6,066.0         -0.2      4,1         5.0       100.0    100.0       100.0
PIUBLIC FINANCE (in constant USS)                                                                                                            As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                           595      684     792        860         886    1,019           *-     11.6         4.8        13.2      15.4       15.4
Current Expenditures                       627      636     668        702         715       808           -      1.6         4.2        13.9      12.9       12.2
Budgetary Savings                          -32       48     124        158         171       211          .        *                     -0.7       2.5        3.2
Other Public Sector                         10       24     -31         48          55        92                               *          0.2     -0.6         1.4
Public Sector Investment                   171      182     229        235         270       397                  7.7        13.7         3.8       4.4        6.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                          1960-65       1965-70        1970-75       1975-80
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)
Averaged ICOR                                 16.49            5.78          3.52          4.32
Import Elasticity                             -6.40            6.57         -0.08          0.95
Marginal Domestic Savings Rote                 0.14           -0.14          0.19          0.27
Marginal National Savings Rate                  0.04          -0.17          0.16          0.26
Total Labor Force                      Value Added Per Worker (1975 Prices & Exc. Rates)
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER        In Millions      7  of Total       Growth Rates        In US Dollars    Percent of Average        Growth Rate
1963   1975      1963    1975       1963-75           1963      1975       1963       1975          1963-75
Agriculture                               0.18   0.21      17.9    19.8          1.3            2,366    1,762       0.79       0.60            -2.2
Industry                                  0.26   0.31      25.7    29.0          1.5            3,519    3,439       1.18       1.16            -0.2
Service                                   0.56   0.55      56.4    51.2         -0.2           2,932    3 143        0.98       1.06             0.6
Total                                     1.00   1.07    100t.0   100.0          0.6           2,983    2,957        1.00       1.00            -0.1
not applicable             - nill or negligible
.not available            -- less than half the smallest unit shown.
November 1980.



BALIANCE OF PAYMETS, EBMNAL ASISTANCE AND DEBT
a7amounts in millicns of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                            Estimated                     Projected                             Growth Rate
1976       1977        1978       1979            1980         1981         1982         1983       1984             1979-1984
SUMMARY 8ALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                     696.2       808.6      912.9    1,198.4         1,525.0        1,854.4      2,208.6     2,575.2    2,938.3              19.6
Imports (inel. NFS)                     705.1       907.1      970.2    1.464.5         1,962.1        2,258.6      2,637.7     3.005.6    3,390.6              18.3
Resource Balance (X-M)                   --8.9      -98.5      -57 .3     -266.1          -437.1        -404.2       -429.1      -430.4      -452.3             11.2
Interest (net)                          -57.2       -56.1      -58.7       -45.8          -58.2         -115.3       -130.3      -172.7      -232.7             41.0
Other factor payments                   -15.2      -11.8       -18.1      -12.0           -25.3          -40.5       -55.9        -68.6       -80.6             46.4
Cuirent Transfers (net)                   7.7         6.6        7.1         7.1             7.0           9.3         10.2         11.3       12.0             11.1
Balanee on Current Accounts             -73.6      -159.8       27.0      -316.8          -513.6        -550.7       -605.1      -660.4      -753.6             19.6
Private                                 109.5       228.2      243.9       290.5           375.0         380.0        397.0        415.0      455.0               9.4
Official Capital Grants
Public ME&LT Loans
Disbursements                         224.1       225.7      416.0       173.5          417.0          250.0        500.0       600.0       600.0             21.5
-Repayments                           -148.3     -186.9      -365.8       -54.5          -91.4         -136.3       -162.0      -202.6    -250.3               33.2
Net Disburserments                       75.8        38.8       50.2       119.0           325.6         113.7        338.0       397.4       349.7             14.2
Changes in reserves (- . increase)    -117.7       -161.2     -167.1       -92.7          -187.0          57.0       -129.9       -152.0      -51.1
Actual
1976      1977                    1979        0
DE;T AND DE3T SEPVICE
Public Dsbt Out. & Disbursed              692.3      735.1     792.7        913.7
GRANT AND 10AN OOMMlTTMENTs
Interest on Public Debt                  57.3       57.8      60.4         68.9
Repayments on Public Debt               148.3      186.9     365.8         54.5
Public MiLT Loans                                                                                           Total Public Debt Service               205.6      244.7     426.2        123.4
TBRD                                    _            _           9.7        50.5
IDA                                            -           -            -
Other Multilateral                      -          15.0         29.7        35.5                        Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                            25.2          -            -
Suppliers                               3.9         1.6         10.9          2.0                         Public Debt Service                      29.5       30.3      46.7         10.3
Financial Institutions               226.6        110.6        214.9        85.0
Bonds                                 35.0        130.0        135.0          -                           TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.                  32.0       33.0      51.9         16.3
Public Loans n.e.i.                                             - .
Total Public M&LT Leans                290.7        257.2        400.2        173.0                       Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Lec. 31. 1979                      Int. as % Prior Year DX&D                 9.3        8.3        8.2         8.7
IXTERBAL DEBT                                   DisbursedQ)x                  Percent                         Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D               24.1      27.0       49.8         6.9
World Bank                                        73.8                       8 .1
IDA                                                                                                      3IRD Debt Out. & Disbursed                  79.2       75.6       ' 7         73.8
Other Mltilateral                                 93.6                       10.2                              as % Public Debt O&D                  11.4       10.3        -1          8.1
Governrments                                     129.6                      14.2                               as % Public Debt Service               5.8        5.6        1,2        11.5
Suppliers                                         36.0                       3.9
Financial Institutions                           311.7                      34.1
Bonds                                            268.9                      29.4
Public Debts n.e.i . i
Total Public MXLT Debt                           913.6                      100.0
rnot applicable                                                  e  staff' estixrmteI
nt available                                                    -nil or negligible
'no't available separately                                      --less than half the
but included in total                                                smallest unit shown
November 1980



* 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
URUGUAY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to Prepare the Project: About 4 months.
(b)  Preparation by:  Central Bank with Bank staff assistance.
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:  November 1979.
(d)  First Bank Mission:  November 1979.
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  March 1980.
(f)  Negotiation:  October 1980.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  March 1981.
Section II: Special Bank Implementing Actions
No special Bank implementation action is necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a)  Under the project, subloans will be approved and disbursements
for free-limit subloans authorized, providing that the consolidated
tariff reduction targets, specified in the December 1978 decree, are
being satisfactorily achieved at any point in time. A study would
be carried out to determine whether the targets of the tariff
reduction program had been met (para. 57).
(b)  All sub-loans above US$500,000 would have to be approved by the
Bank (para. 47).
(c)  UA would be reorganized to take over the functions of PAT
(para. 50).
(d)  Whenever justified, items costing more than the equivalent of
US$100,000 would be procured after obtaining at least three offers
and in accordance with standard practices for DFC-type projects
(para. 54).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) IDF-loans and subloans would be made in US dollars or pesos and
as freely selected by industrial borrowers. IDF loans expressed
in US dollars would carry on interest rate to financial intermedia-
ries of LIBOR plus 1.0%. IDF loans in pesos would carry an interest
rate to intermediaries of 0.5% subject to indexation of principal
based on changes in wholesale price index. Final interest rates to
sub-borrowers of subloans would be freely negotiated between inter-
mediaries and the subborrowers to ensure market rates as well as
adequate spreads to intermediaries (para. 52).
(f) The following would be conditions of effectiveness: (i) the
Central Bank's Industrial Development Fund's (IDF) had been
established with a policy statement satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 49); (ii) an amount equivalent to not less than US$4.75
million has been made available to IDF by the Central Bank
(para. 49); (iii) the Central Bank had signed participation
agreements with at least two intermediaries (para. 51); (iv)
that the consultants to carry out the tariff study have been
hired (para. 57); and (v) that all action with respect to the
reorganization of UA has been taken (para. 50).



B.~~~~V~~n ~URUGUJAY
-3t        /~~~~~~~~~~~-
W    J-                                                                        3_y 
S A N D U ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~         Scn4e A~or 
, (/   th                 ?'t              ,                ',,'_'   ',    ' qS~ftt~o4r~e
| _ / - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< '9~~~~~~ F                                L  R G   
R I 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M                                       Pknifl-
COLON  D                  t pR A  Z  Nr    ,redo y  D  A Z N
t C   O L O N\A   S     J C SEMO (l Ii                              )    csilsJ              
E R.W A4-  M.    -t /                                         o    C
ES                                                               -pi,  W-.t   -'P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ by m~~~~~~~, 
R f>\\\ 3 0 >    C   HTl        on             ,           0    0 -
A   ~VIe                           <4 E$eS2 
sq5 A- C54



