                Document of
              The World Bank




                                         Report No: 26673

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-29500 SCL-41560)

                   ON A

                   LOAN

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

               AND A CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 72.1 MILLION

                 TO INDIA




 FOR ANDHRA PRADESH HAZARD MITIGATION

AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT




               November 1, 2003

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective September 2003)

                           Currency Unit = INR
                                Rs.45.93 = US$ 1
                                  US$ 1 = Rs.45.93

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1   June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP                 Andhra Pradesh
APDMS              Andhra Pradesh Disaster Mitigation Society
APDMU              Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Unit
APSEB              Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
APSRAC             Andhra Pradesh State
CERP               Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project
DDMC               District Disaster Management Committee
DRDA               District Rural Development Agency
EA                 Environment Assessment
GoAP               Government of Andhra Pradesh
HMIS               Hazard Management Information System
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Agency
IMD                India Meteorological Department
PAH                Project Affected Household
PAP                Project Affected People
PLCC               Power Line Carrier Communications
PMP                Participatory Mitigation Plan
PVA                Participatory Vulnerability Assessment
QAG                Quality Assessment Group
RAP                Rehabilitation Action Plan
RBD                Roads and Buildings Department
RMT                Regional Management Team
VHF                Very High Frequency
VRF                Vulnerability Reduction Fund
VSAT               Very Small Aperture Terminal


                          Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                       Country Director      Michael F. Carter
                         Sector Manager      Sonia Hammam
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      N.V.V. Raghava

                                               INDIA
   A.P. HAZARD MITIGATION & EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
   6. Sustainability                                                                16
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              20
   10. Additional Information                                                       20
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
   Annex 8. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                       34
   Annex 9. Environmental Management                                                36
MAP

Project ID: P049301                                                  Project Name: A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE
Team Leader: N. V. V. Raghava                                        TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 27, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-29500; SCL-41560
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (28%); Roads and highways
                            (25%); Power (17%); Irrigation and drainage (17%); Other social
                            services (13%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/02/1996                                     Effective: 07/09/1997                07/09/1997
     Appraisal: 02/12/1997                                         MTR: 02/25/1999                  02/25/1999
      Approval: 05/06/1997                                      Closing: 07/31/2000                 07/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/GOAP
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Robert S. Drysdale
Sector Director:                Vincent Gouarne                                Jean-Francois Bauer
Team Leader at ICR:             N.V.V. Raghava                                 Jelena Pantelic
ICR Primary Author:             Dara Lengkong


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
 The Andhra Pradesh Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project originated
from the disastrous heavy rains, floods and cyclones occurring in Andhra Pradesh between June
and December 1996. This is the second Bank emergency project in AP (the first AP Cyclone
Emergency Reconstruction Project was launched after the 1990 cyclone), with an estimated cost
of US$ 220 million. Project appraisal and technical discussions took place in February to March
1997 and, following negotiations, became effective in July 1997. The project objectives were to:
(i) assist the Government of Andhra Pradesh in preparing and implementing a long-term hazard
management program in high risk areas with enhanced community participation; (ii) restore public
infrastructure lost during the 1996 cyclone disasters, according to the hazard-resistant criteria for
infrastructure siting, construction and quality control, so that such infrastructure can withstand
future disasters; and (iii) enhance the capacity of Government of India/India Meteorological
Department in early cyclone warning. Successful realization of the project objectives was intended
to enhance the sustainability of overall development efforts in AP. Within the context of AP's
needs and priorities, those objectives have been appropriate, based on the considerations detailed
in the following paragraphs.

AP's physical coastal condition has put it as one of India's most vulnerable region to tropical
storms, wherein cyclones had historically occurred with some degree of regularity. GoAP had
performed relatively well during past disasters, particularly in coordinating post-disaster relief
assistance, restoring essential infrastructure facilities and disseminating disaster information; all of
which contributed to the considerable reduction in death toll during the more recent cyclones. The
increasing economic losses that resulted from damaged infrastructure assets, on the other hand,
highlighted the urgent need for a long-term disaster mitigation framework. It was evident that
many of the disaster management efforts by the different departments within AP had been
implemented without clear inter-linkages, nor adequate involvement of the local district and
communities. As evident from past cyclones, the lack of infrastructure maintenance, along with
inappropriate design criteria and construction standards continued to be the main factor
contributing to the high vulnerability of AP's coastal areas. Altogether, these deficiencies proved
to have exacerbated the losses resulting from past calamities.

The project therefore emphasized longer-term disaster mitigation to minimize the economic and
social costs of recurring cyclone disasters in AP. The hazard management component was
intended to assist GoAP in executing and coordinating prevention, mitigation and preparedness
activities in AP, and mainstreaming them into the overall development planning of the most
vulnerable areas. The first project objective, under the GoAP, would incorporate a disaster
mitigation strategy within an integrated development framework, and bring together the planning
decisions and investment activities of the many compartmentalized line departments, while
enhancing communities involvement; thereby enabling the GoAP to move from a reactive towards
a more proactive mode in handling disasters.

In the aftermath of the 1996 disasters, the acute need for immediate repair and reconstruction of
critical infrastructure also had to be addressed. The second project objective under GoAP would
address this need while enhancing the infrastructure facilities' capacity to withstand future



                                                  - 2 -

cyclones. Building upon the previous AP CERP accomplishments, efforts were to be made to
address the sustainability of mitigation efforts and maintenance fund deficits through, inter alia,
development and implementation of enhanced design criteria and construction standards, more
focused attention to operation and maintenance needs, and promotion of community involvement
in the management of assets.

The third project objective, under the GoI/IMD would yield a more accurate and efficient
warning system, which is one of the essential measures for cyclone disaster preparedness. A
relatively efficient warning system -- encompassing a wide variety of communications from the
most traditional to the most modern -- had already been established in India. Yet it still had
several links that could fail under severe weather conditions. Upgrading of equipment and
provision of state-of-the-art software would strengthen the cyclone tracking equipment to
produce more accurate prediction of cyclones and improve the dissemination of warnings to
vulnerable communities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained valid throughout the project and were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components, along with their original estimated costs, are as follow:

1.       Hazard Management Program (US$ 48.7 million equivalent). This component was
designed to help promote and coordinate selected prevention, mitigation and preparedness
activities in AP, and establish linkages between these activities and development planning of the
most vulnerable areas. The activities are: (a) GoAP: comprehensive cyclone and flood
management studies which were expected to lead to action plans, institutional and implementation
framework; hazard mapping; communications and information technology links to facilitate
community involvement; and setting up a Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF) to finance
community-driven hazard reduction activities; (b) GoI: enhancement of the IMD's early cyclone
warning capacity on the East coast of India through the provision of equipments and training.

2.       Infrastructure Restoration (US$ 156.7 million equivalent). This component included
repair and reconstruction according to enhanced design and construction standards, of the
following assets destroyed or damaged during the 1996 disasters: (i) Electric power facilities; (ii)
Irrigation drains and flood-banks; (iii) Roads and bridges under the State and Panchayati Raj
administration; (iv) Public Buildings, such as primary and secondary schools, health centers and
hospitals; and (v) Mitigation works on watershed management, shelter-belt plantations and
cyclone shelters.

3.       Technical Assistance (US$ 14.6 million equivalent). This component was to provide
for: (a) Incremental operating costs, to finance on a declining scale the cost of project
management and implementation, including the financing of Andhra Pradesh Disaster
Management Unit; (b) Consultancies, training and equipment, including financing of
consultancy services for project monitoring, design checks, technical audit, quality assurance and
certification; and capacity building of the GoAP agencies, public education, awareness raising,
facilitating the training in hazard management activities; and provision of a communications


                                                - 3 -

network in the flood and cyclone-prone districts, including vehicles, office equipment, computers
and software in selected districts and mandals.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions to the components, however, some substantive changes were made to the
project duration and scope, which are as follow:
·        Project closing date was extended three times. The original closing date of the project
was July 31, 2000. In July 2000, the overall project closing was extended to July 31, 2001, based
on the consideration that the GoAP had demonstrated more proactive stance and effective action
in resolving the hazard studies' data problem (as discussed in section 4.2.1), and that more time
was needed to help achieve the expected long-term disaster mitigation objective. Specific
Operational Action Plans were developed and agreed by both GoAP and IMD, highlighting key
issues that need to be implemented during the extension period. In July 2001, a second extension
to July 31, 2002 was granted, primarily to allow for completion of the cyclone and flood
management studies, while somewhat reducing the scope of activities. Since then, significant
improvements were made in the pace of project implementation and strengthening of APDMU
staff, and in July 2002, the components 1 and 3 were extended for the third time up to July 31,
2003, on an exceptional basis. By then, it was realized that the project design was weak as it
attempted to combine long-term disaster mitigation capacity building with short-term emergency
operations; thereby remotely complying with the Regional Management Team extension
guidelines on the grounds of `delays attributable to the Bank'. Bank management was also of the
opinion that the project had extremely high potential benefits as it would create a state-of-the art
forecasting model for other Indian states to replicate and scale up nation-wide; thereby opening
the potential to protect hundreds of millions of lives and livelihood beyond AP itself. As described
in the following sections, at the time of ICR substantial achievements were made under the hazard
management component, which would not have been possible without those extensions.
·        Cancellation of the Doppler Weather Radars under Component 1B. The bid evaluation
by IMD for procurement of Doppler Weather Radars for installation along the eastern coast of
India was continuously prolonged. Bids were opened by IMD in November 2000, and up until
June 2001 the contract was not awarded despite two bid validity extensions. This led the Bank to
declare mis-procurement and cancel the corresponding Credit allocations of US$ 9 million. IMD
ended up with funding these equipments through its own budget. This problem was subsequently
addressed by the Bank's advice to Borrower on the proper designs of contract packaging and
more in-depth review on the status of contracts awarded under the project, in order to better
facilitate future mitigation and corrective actions.
·        Land Acquisition and/or Resettlement. The original project agreement specifically
excluded any works involving land acquisition and/or resettlement, because addressing these
issues in accordance to the Bank's operational policies would require elaborate preparation, for
which there was no sufficient time. However, as land acquisition and/or resettlement was
unavoidable in some of the required key infrastructure works, an amendment to the legal
agreement was made in December1999, to enable the GoAP to undertake those works, provided
that the resettlement policy provisions adopted for the AP State Highways Project were followed.
Rehabilitation Action Plans were subsequently developed and implemented, and their supervision
was generally found to be effective in delivering the compensation and entitlements to the Project
Affected Persons.



                                                 - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A rapid Quality at Entry Assessment was conducted in early 1998, wherein the overall assessment
of quality was rated satisfactory. It was noted that while the project design reflected a thorough
analysis of issues and identified actions required to mitigate the risks posed by future cyclones, the
following concerns remained:

(i)      Borrower's commitment to the project was weak. It was apparent that the Borrower had
approached the Bank primarily for the financing of infrastructure damage resulting from the
cyclones, and the Bank chose to respond with an emergency project that also included a
significant hazard mitigation component, for which borrower ownership may have been lacking;
(ii)     The primary project objective was too ambitious given its emergency nature and short
duration. During the initial stages of post-disaster, a borrower tends to focus more on
reconstruction efforts which normally get completed within three years, instead of capacity
building activities. Indeed, this was one of the important lessons from the Bank's experience in
reconstruction projects in general, which was repeated during the project implementation period.
Consequently, the Bank then adopted a strategy of splitting reconstruction activities (under a
three years emergency recovery operation) from long-term capacity building activities (under a
five to six years, self standing operation). Had this been applied in this project, the disaster
management component would have earned the attention it deserved from the beginning, and may
well have been completed within the longer time-frame;
(iii)    The project was not fully ready at the time of launch, and did not fully provide for
mitigating the risks that it was likely to face. Many of the design and procurement documentation
were not finalized at the time of project approval, although this was justifiable to some extent
given that this was an emergency operation, demanding rapid assessment and response. There
was also little attention paid to the availability of counterpart funds and establishment of proper
institutional arrangements. The latter related particularly to the APDMU, which was initially put
under the AP Finance Department that was more experienced in disbursement aspects of Bank
projects, but not the planning and implementation of disaster mitigation activities.

The ICR team views that these quality at entry shortcomings proved to be highly critical in
influencing the project's performance. The project achievement would have been much more
favorable had these issues been properly addressed in advance. Hence, an unsatisfactory rating is
deemed to be more justifiable.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective-1: Assist the Government of Andhra Pradesh in preparing and implementing a
long-term natural hazard management program in high risk areas with enhanced community
participation.

This is the first and most important objective of the project, which was not fully achieved. Even
though the other project objectives were substantially met, within the context of the project's
primary development objective, the overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory. Most
critical is the fact that the disaster management plans were not yet finalized, nor integrated into an



                                                   - 5 -

overall disaster mitigation action plan, and institutional and implementation framework, for further
mainstreaming into GoAP's development planning on the whole. The recently completed Cyclone
Hazard Management studies (Study A "Delta Water Management Plan including Flood Modeling"
and Study B "Coastal Zone Management including Modeling of Wind, Rainfall and Storm Surge")
were not yet fully integrated and operationalized. Community awareness raising and involvement
had also been very limited, raising concerns over the ownership and applicability of the disaster
mitigation works at the local level, where interventions are most needed. Moreover, the VRF's
role in supporting community driven hazard reduction activities has been very limited, and gaps
remained in addressing disaster mitigation needs at the local level. The recently established
Andhra Pradesh Disaster Mitigation Society is expected to take the lead in bringing all the
remaining disaster mitigation activities into closure, yet significant capacity building and
government support are crucial for its effective functioning beyond the project. In short, whilst
the activities completed to date provide some of the necessary groundwork, they have not
resulted in GoAP's full readiness to mainstream disaster mitigation into its overall development
activities.

These shortcomings do not, however, undermine the huge potential benefits and sustainability of
project outputs thus far. Although the first project objective was not fully met, significant
achievements were made in laying the necessary groundwork for long-term hazard management
program, which was previously non-existent. Studies A and B, together with the forecasting
models, will form a state-of-the-art early cyclone warning system that is the most technologically
advanced within the country and the South Asia region. Further replication and scaling-up of this
system nationwide will undoubtedly help minimize losses to India as a whole during future
disasters.

Objective-2: Restore public infrastructure lost during the 1996 cyclone disasters, according to
hazard-resistant criteria for infrastructure siting, construction and quality control, so that
such infrastructure can withstand future disasters.

The project has performed well in meeting its second objective. Notwithstanding the quality
variations across different infrastructure works, the acute need for immediate repair and
reconstruction of critical infrastructure was adequately met, thereby reducing the cyclones'
adverse impacts to the local communities. The project also promoted the use of enhanced design
criteria and construction standards with higher endurance to cyclones, which have been applied
outside the project works as well. Moreover, the project helped facilitate the improvement in
infrastructure maintenance systems, such as the institutionalization of a specialized maintenance
wing within AP Transco and community participation in maintenance of irrigation and watershed
works.

Objective-3: Enhance the capacity of GoI/IMD in early warning capabilities for cyclone and
wind forecasting.

The third project objective was met with the provision of high quality equipment for cyclone
forecasting and dissemination, along with training, to both IMD and GOAP,              which will
considerably enhance the early cyclone warning capacity along the eastern coast of India.



                                                  - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs of each project component are as follow:

1.      Hazard Management Program
Within the context of the planned objectives, this component is rated unsatisfactory. This
component was the main thrust of the project, yet prolonged delays were experienced initially in
carrying out the disaster mitigation and preparedness activities under GoAP and GoI/IMD,
because of the inability to secure necessary clearances and approvals from the related
inter-governmental agencies in a timely manner. As a result, while significant achievements were
made, particularly during the latter extended period of the project, full completion and integration
of the planned activities were not yet achieved at project closing. Needless to say, the
mainstreaming of a comprehensive, long-term disaster mitigation framework into the state's
overall planning has not taken place.

Nevertheless, it is noteworthy that significant achievements were made in laying the necessary
groundwork for AP's long-term disaster management framework. Much of the activities
completed thus far constitute a technologically advanced disaster mitigation system, which does
not exist in other states. The increased lead time of a cyclone forecast, for instance, would allow
more focused and speedy relocation and relief efforts, and minimize potential damage. Provided
that the necessary finalization and integration are undertaken, these activities would prove highly
beneficial in enhancing AP's disaster mitigation capacity, and could serve as a replication model
for other states and India as a whole.

The achievements made under this component can be summarized as follow:

GoAP
·       Cyclone and Flood Management Studies. Unsatisfactory. Continuous delays were
experienced in initiating the preparation of studies A and B, because of the security restrictions
imposed on the digitization of contour maps that were key inputs for the studies. Individually
completed just before project closure, these studies will enable the increase in lead time of a
cyclone forecast from 6-12 hours to about 48 hours. Yet the fact that they have not been fully
integrated into a unified flood forecasting system and put into real-time operation, resulted in an
unsatisfactory rating. Completion of these tasks will rely upon the continuing commitment of the
GoAP and APDMS. Nethertheless, the system's reliability and lead time in the forecasting of
related weather information are commendable. Significant capacity building was also provided for
the APDMU staff in running and testing these models, through trainings and consultants' transfer
of know-how, which will help ensure that the studies continue to serve as key tools for timely and
effective flood forecasting system.

·       Disaster Management Plan. Unsatisfactory. Results from studies A and B serve as
scientific inputs to the assessment of hazard, risk and vulnerability at the district level, which is an
integral part of the disaster management plan. At the time of ICR, individual draft disaster
management plans for Cyclone, Earthquake and Drought have been prepared, but not yet finalized
nor integrated into a multi-hazard state disaster management plan that encompasses an action



                                                  - 7 -

plan, as well as the institutional and implementation framework for long-term disaster mitigation.
Significant refinement efforts, which include public debate and participation, will be needed in
order to accomplish this task satisfactorily and further mainstream disaster mitigation into the
state's developmental activities.

·       Community early warning and awareness raising consultancy. Unsatisfactory. This
activity was intended to enhance community involvement in disaster mitigation activities in 10
pilot villages (the villages together with their respective districts, are: Tonangi, Srikakulam;
Pedduru, Vizianagaram; Mulakuddu Visakhapatnam; Suradapeta, East Godavari; Vemuladeevi,
West Godavari; Giripuram, Krishna; Pragallapalli, Khammam; Harbour, Guntur;
Thurpupallempalem, Prakasam; Pallepalem, Nellore), and expand them into other villages within
vulnerable districts. Initial reports on Vulnerability Levels by District and General Mitigation
Strategies, Baseline Survey and the Participatory Vulnerability Assessment /Participatory
Mitigation Planning exercises were completed by the consultants. However, the design of the
Awareness program itself, together with replication manuals and training modules, remain to be
finalized and implemented.

·       Vulnerability Reduction Fund. Unsatisfactory. VRF was formally created in 1998, but
its operation was initiated only in 2000 as GOAP's contribution to the fund was delayed. At
closing, an endowment of about US$6 million was put into the fund with the target of about US$
750,000 financing for community-driven hazard reduction activities to be initiated per year.
Disbursement of the fund has been limited thus far, which included about US$ 80,000 provided
for setting up shore stations for transmitting weather information to fishermen, with matching
contributions from the beneficiaries. A concerted effort is needed to promote the funds and
enhance the focus on disaster mitigation activities. For that, the institutional structure and
standard operating procedures for the VRF need to be enhanced further.

GoI IMD
·       Enhancement of Early Warning Systems. Satisfactory. Initial delays were also
experienced in procuring the Doppler weather radar systems, as the clearances from Expenditure
Finance Committee and the cabinet were obtained only two years after the project launch. As
explained in section 3.4., delays continued during the procurement stages which led the Bank to
declare mis-procurement and cancel the funding for these systems. As the result, the 3 Doppler
Weather Radars, which were the key elements in providing valuable cyclone data and improving
IMD's early warning system were not financed under the project. Nonetheless, 10 High Wind
Speed Recorders and 100 Digital Cyclone Warning Systems were installed along the East coast of
India. These equipments have been functioning satisfactorily and proved to be valuable
investments in strengthening IMD's early warning system for the vulnerable coastal districts.

2.      Infrastructure Restoration:
The overall rating for the Infrastructure Restoration component is satisfactory. Overall, the
objective of repair and reconstruction of destroyed or damaged infrastructure according to
enhanced design and construction standards with robustness to withstand future cyclones was
substantially achieved. Consultants were engaged for each type of core infrastructure facilities
(power, irrigation, roads, bridges and buildings) to conduct design checks, quality assurance and



                                                   - 8 -

certification, technical audit and other project management activities, and their inputs generally
proved to be highly useful in helping ensure that the standards were adequately complied with.
Whilst there were some variations in the quality and sustainability of works across the different
line departments, the restoration/reconstruction of damaged infrastructure facilities overall
performed more satisfactorily than the longer-term mitigation works. The social safeguards
relating with land acquisition and/or resettlement, which were added later during the project, were
largely complied with, and the delivery of entitlements and compensation to land owners affected
by the project was generally sufficient. Yet it is difficult to assess whether the affected people's
living standards were improved and whether the RAP's overall objective was fully met, with the
absence of a more comprehensive social impact assessment study (see Annex 8 for assessment on
land acquisition and/or resettlement).

There were concerns that the environmental safeguards were not fully adhered to, as no proper
environmental screening process were undertaken by the executing agencies prior to the works.
Apparently there was little recollection of the environmental safeguards elaborated during
preparation, because of the high staff turnover within the line departments. However, given that
the majority of works were reconstruction of facilities that had already existed previously, no
major adverse environmental impact was found. Most of the environmental concerns relate with
routine and regular maintenance of the facilities, which could be resolved even post project
completion (see Annex 9 for the overall environmental assessment).

Electric Power facilities. Implementing Agency: AP State Electricity Board/ AP Transco [since
the restructuring of the APSEB by the Government, effective February 1, 1999, all electrical
power works covered under the project were implemented by the Transmission Company of AP
(AP Transco)]. This sub-component is rated satisfactory. With the adoption of improved design
and construction standards, as well as better quality control measures, electric power facilities
damaged during the 1996 disasters were repaired or restored, and new lines and substations were
put in place. Consultants were engaged to review design and construction criteria, and conduct
quality assurance inspections, and their recommendations for improvements were adequately
incorporated in the works. The sub-component covered the following works:

·       Transmission. Strengthening works were carried out through 893 rectification works on
towers and foundations to withstand higher wind speed of up to 200 km/hr, and repainting of
existing towers with red oxide primer and aluminum paints. A total of 154 km of 220/132 KV
lines, along with 12 220/132 KV substations and bays were constructed, all of which would
contribute to reducing the low voltage problem and improving power supply reliability.
·       Distribution. A total of 1,686 km of 33/11 KV lines and 55 33/11 KV substations and
bays were constructed in the vulnerable areas falling within 50 km of the coast line. Spun
concrete poles were used for the lines and they are expected to withstand wind pressures of 220
kg/sqm at minimum, which is adequate for the typically-experienced cyclones. The new lines and
substations will help ensure alternate and reliable power supply.
·       Communications. Damaged Power Line Carrier Communications were repaired and
restored. In addition, VHF communications were established within coastal districts and a
satellite-based VSAT system was set-up in APSEB headquarters and remote site offices. The
whole new communication system would enhance timely and effective coordination of emergency



                                                 - 9 -

measures during future disturbances

Although it is difficult to assess the resilience of the overall electric power considering that the
repair/new works constitute only a small part of the total network, the project contributed
significantly in increasing the reliability of the electric power supply system and strengthening
vulnerabilities to future calamities. The project also promoted the adoption of enhanced standards
across other ongoing works under AP Transco, thereby contributing to the reliability of the
overall power supply. The project also helped institutionalize the O&M of power facilities, with
the creation of a separate TL & SS wing within APSEB for operation and maintenance of
transmission lines and substations, which led to reduced breakdowns.

Irrigation Drains and Flood Banks. Implementing Agency: Irrigation Department. This
sub-component is also rated satisfactory. The damaged drainage network of delta and flood
embankments was significantly reconstructed and rehabilitated. As a result, drainage congestion
was significantly reduced and the delta areas within the coastal districts became more
flood-resistant. Although there were implementation delays initially and the momentum picked up
only after about two years, as some of the preliminary design, estimate and procurement works
were not yet ready at the time of project's launch, substantial achievements were made in meeting
the physical targets. Consultants were engaged to review the design and construction criteria, and
undertook quality control checks and certification, and the overall quality of works was found to
be acceptable under the relevant Indian Standard codes and guidelines. Studies were also
undertaken by the Central Water Power Research Station, confirming that the flood-bank works
would not create any adverse effect on the opposite banks, and the requisite land acquisition and
resettlement involved during the works were carefully settled by GoAP. Although some
water-user associations have been actively involved, the sustainability of the irrigation and
drainage works still rely heavily on the establishment of an institutionalized maintenance system,
that incorporates continuous inspection and maintenance, commitment of maintenance funds and
enhanced users' contribution through the water users association.

The sub-component comprised the following works:
·       Drainage. A total of 1,470 works were constructed, consisting of capacity improvement
works to minor, medium and major drains and replacement of masonry structures for effective
functioning of the drainage system.
·       Flood embankments. 19 repair and reconstruction works were constructed on damaged
and other vulnerable flood embankments.
·       Other works. 266 works comprising of the slab culverts on minor drains, dredging of
major drains and other rehabilitation works were completed.

The sub-component also provided the following additional benefits to the community: (i)
improved water levels and increased land productivity in 645,000 ha of land; (ii) flood protection
of 1,100,000 ha of land, constituting 3 towns and 42 villages with total population of about
300,000; (iii) new connectivity to 155 villages.

Under this sub-component, rehabilitation assistance was provided to 91 vulnerable land owners as
top-up to the government's land acquisition compensation which is usually less than the market



                                                - 10 -

value.   This sub-component also provided alternative resettlement houses and shops with
minimum basic amenities to about 200 squatters and encroachers            under the Bhadrachalam
flood-bank, who otherwise would not have been eligible for any assistance under
government-executed programs. Under the Dayyamvaku flood-bank, 19 landless farmers who
have lost their lands were provided with ex-gratia payments.

Roads, Bridges and Public Buildings ­ State and Rural. Implementing agencies: Roads and
Building Department and Panchayati Raj Department. This component is rated marginally
satisfactory. A total of 1,189 km of roads and 59 bridges were repaired/reconstructed under both
administrations, whereby a more reliable all-weather road network complete with bridges and
cross drainage structures was created, connecting vulnerable areas to select nodal centers from
where post-disaster relief operations can be coordinated in the event of disasters. In general,
higher design standards were adopted, particularly by the more capable RBD, which will help
ensure longer trouble-free service periods. Yet there were prolonged delays initially in carrying
out the preliminary survey and design works, as well as mobilizing the contractors on the affected
roads and bridges, particularly those in rural areas. As the result, construction costs increased,
leading to reduced quantity of works, and physical targets of roads and bridges were not fully
met, particularly under the Panchayati Raj Department. Some follow-on works to complete these
will need to be done through GoAP's own resources. Maintenance of these assets also remains an
issue and adequate funds need to be made available for upkeep and repairs, in order to ensure
trouble-free service.

Some of the land owners, who were affected by bridge works and supposed to receive the
compensation prior to the commencement of works, have not yet received compensation and
rehabilitation assistance because of outstanding legal issues. Notwithstanding this, resettlement
assistance was successfully delivered to people affected by the Ananthvaram-Palmmkuru and
Karimnagar-Kamareddy road projects, through offering alternative house plots with minimum
basic amenities. The beneficiaries also included affected squatters who were normally not eligible
under government-funded development programs.

In addition, the restoration of public buildings was significantly achieved, with 800 buildings
repaired/reconstructed under the two administrations, although with somewhat mixed quality of
construction. Preliminary survey and design works were even more delayed with the implementing
agencies' lack of focus, and in some cases, the design works proved to be insufficient in restoring
the damaged buildings to full operational level. In some buildings, outfitting works, such as doors,
windows and flooring, were not completed, while some utilities and sanitation facilities were not
usable. As a result, despite the substantial investments that have been put into them, some of the
buildings were in poor condition and not fully utilized. It is imperative that GOAP together with
the respective implementing agencies, takes separate measures to carry out their
repairs/restoration and maintenance.

Mitigation Works ­ Watershed Management: Implementing Agency: Rural Development
Department through District Rural Development Agencies. This sub-component is rated
satisfactory. A total of 822 check dams and 711 percolation tanks were constructed, along with
soil moisture conservation works on 7,810 hectares of land and horticultural plantations on 7,546



                                                - 11 -

hectares of land. Village communities were involved through the Watershed Committees, which
executed the works through User Groups and Self Help Groups. The overall quality of work and
operation was satisfactory, and the resulting impact on the beneficiaries was positive, with
increased water level, efficiency and agricultural productivity. Forestation and pastures
development need to be improved, however, through the use of better quality seedlings and
improvement in techniques, which will need to be monitored further. While a watershed
development fund was created through users' contributions for maintenance purposes, most
village communities still expect government funding for maintenance. Efforts will be needed to
raise the communities' awareness and involvement for an effective and self-sustainable
maintenance system.

Mitigation Works ­ Cyclone Shelters. Implementing Agency: Panchayati Raj Department. This
sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. A total of 82 cyclone shelters were constructed under this
sub-component, meeting the revised physical target. However, because of inadequate field
investigations and poor site selection, some shelters have somewhat impaired quality. There were
also problems in the provision of sufficient electric and water supply, and sanitation facilities.
GoAP will need to provide sufficient funding to address these issues, in order to ensure proper
usage and avoid further deterioration, and subsequently develop a maintenance system for these
facilities.

Mitigation Works ­ Tree Shelter Belts. Implementing Agency: AP Forest Department. This
sub-component is rated      marginally satisfactory. A total of 3,581 hectares of Casuarinas
plantations, 1,089 hectares of Palmyra plantations and 606 hectares of Mangrove plantations were
created. The sub-component also financed raising and distribution of seedlings. Physical targets
were substantially achieved with acceptable quality overall. Casuarinas and Mangrove plantations
were planned and executed up to 500 meters into the shore, whereas Palmyra plantations were
added through the course of the project in consideration of their high benefits and long-term
durability. Altogether, these plantations would significantly contribute to increased protection
from cyclonic storms and floods along the coastal areas. However, some variations of survival and
growth rates were found across different plantations (according to the Forest Department data,
survival rates of Casuarinas plantations vary from 20 to 80 percent, whereas those of Mangrove
plantations range from 20 to 50 percent), which were largely attributed to the use of poor quality
seeds. A long-term strategy would also be needed for further expansion of shelterbelt plantations
along the coastal line and maintenance, possibly involving the acquisition of control over lands
that do not fall under the Forest Department and reserve forest status. Local community
involvement has been initiated in East Godavari District through formation of Village
Sanrakshana Samities for joint management of shelterbelt plantations, yet this needs to be
expanded for continuous protection and replenishment.

3.       Technical Assistance:
This component is rated as satisfactory, as it helped considerably in building the APDMU
capacity to undertake hazard mitigation activities, which was very limited at the project beginning.


1.       APDMU's incremental operating costs. The project financing of APDMU's operational



                                               - 12 -

cost on a declining basis facilitated the establishment of a disaster management team consisting of
specialists from diverse technical backgrounds and implementation of key hazard mitigation
activities, which would not have been swiftly achieved without the project. Outsourcing of some
operations was also facilitated, which helped in ensuring professionalism and quality work results.

2.      Consultancies, Training and Equipment. The following activities were supported:
·       Consultancies. Good quality of consulting works for design and construction criteria
checks, quality assurance and certification, technical audit and other project management activities
were provided, which proved to be highly beneficial for the line departments in carrying out their
repair/restoration works and strengthening the infrastructure facilities' capacity to withstand
future cyclone disasters;
·       Training. Training of GoAP and IMD were largely packaged with the procurement of new
equipments, comprising of on the job and customized trainings, which proved to be effective in
the transfer of knowledge. Yet training on the overall, longer-term disaster management concepts
will need to be further developed and implemented post-project;
·       Installation of Equipment. State of the art, modern equipment was installed within
APDMU and at field locations, which built the capacity in receiving real-time weather-related
data. High level modeling computers were installed within the APDMU premise, through which
the cyclone forecasting models would be interlinked and run in real time. River and rain gauges
with attached satellite link were installed throughout the state, and necessary budget provisions
have been made for maintenance of these equipments. In addition, computers and office
equipments were also provided to every mandals/sub-district revenue offices to support the
dissemination of disaster-related information to the community. These mandal computers also
proved to be multi-functional, carrying other purposes such as maintenance of basic community
database, issuance of certificates, land records and social and economic data.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A limited ex-ante cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal by comparing the net present
value of benefits and costs. This analysis was updated and revised during the ICR preparation.
The project has not only rebuilt infrastructure facilities that are beneficial for the economy overall,
but also resulted in various disaster management efforts that would help avert losses from natural
disasters--for example, the increase of the lead time of a cyclone forecasting would allow
relocation and relief efforts to be more focused and speedy, and minimize potential damage. A
comparison of damages from cyclones with and without project interventions could not be carried
out since no cyclone has hit AP since the inception of the project. Due to lack of data on various
parameters, several assumptions on cyclone probabilities, discount rates, direct damage, and
infrastructure expansions have been made in order to calculate simple benefit/cost ratios. Annex 3
presents the detailed analysis.

Assuming that project benefits would flow over a 20-year horizon, benefit/cost ratios in present
discounted terms would range from 0.43 to 4.32. In fact, in a base case scenario--assuming that
cyclones hit AP over the next 20 years at the same rate as they did during 1969-1996 and would
have caused similar average damage in the absence of the project--it is found that the project will
break even if interventions succeed in reducing direct damage by only 4.62 percent. In addition,
there would be intangible and non-quantifiable benefits from human lives saved and long run



                                                  - 13 -

macroeconomic impacts avoided--which would only add further to benefits. Accordingly, the
project interventions are deemed to be economically justified.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial institutional development impact. The various infrastructure
departments at the local levels were introduced to enhanced design and construction standards,
and started to work along these principles in their other works outside the project, which would
not only strengthen the infrastructure facilities against future cyclones, but also improve the
overall quality of services to communities. The maintenance of assets was somewhat improved in
some of the agencies, with the establishment of specialized maintenance wing in AP Transco and
initiation of community participation in irrigation, watershed and plantation works. Meanwhile,
APDMU's capacity and vigor in mitigating future disasters were also significantly strengthened
through a rigorous learning exercise throughout project implementation, and it is now ready to
transform into APDMS to carry the disaster mitigation agenda further beyond the project.

However, the institutional development efforts made to date need to be further reinforced in
order to realize full potential benefits. This could include : (i) further capacity building of
APDMS and clarification of its role and institutional setting. Whilst APDMS core technical
experts are in place, clearer policy directions, along with more delegation of responsibilities and
accountability need to be provided. A chief executing officer must be appointed in order to lead
and coordinate the disaster mitigation activities; (ii) Enhancement of systems and procedures --
including those with regard to community participation -- for operation and maintenance of
infrastructure facilities. This is due to the varying level of capacity within the infrastructure
agencies; (iii) Human resources development including staffing and overall training plan, with the
integration of disaster mitigation within the respective agencies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The following factors outside the control of the GoI, GoAP and the implementing agencies,
substantially affected the project achievement:
·        new national election was called for the central Government of India at the end of 1998,
causing uncertainties in the political situations at both the national and state level, and exacerbated
the already slow decision making and clearances processes;
·       The political tension between India and Pakistan on cross-border terrorism in 2001, and
the international terrorism problems, resulted in some difficulties in the mobilization of
international consultants, thereby contributing to the delays in some project activities;
·       The acquisition of an international computer hardware vendor by another company led to
considerable delays in the procurement of high end modeling computers, thereby delaying the
integration of studies A and B;
·       The project was appraised and became effective in 1997, prior to the introduction of the
Bank's Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI) guidelines in 1999. Thus no formal
assessment of the implementing agencies' financial management systems and controls was
conducted during appraisal.


                                                     - 14 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The following factors within the control of the Government of India and/or GoAP significantly
affected the achievement of project outcome:
·       As more attention was paid to provide immediate relief through multi-sectoral
infrastructure restoration works in the beginning, there was a lack of commitment and weak
inter-agency coordination particularly in relation to disaster mitigation. This was demonstrated by
the following: (i) the Hazard Mitigation Component suffered greatly due to the prolonged delays
in securing the clearance from Defense Ministry for digitizing high resolution maps that were used
as inputs for the studies, which resulted in disputes in deliverables and delays in payments to the
consultants; (ii)decision making in IMD's procurement of Doppler weather radar systems was
extremely delayed; (iii) little direction and leadership were provided, particularly as the disaster
mitigation policy setting and oversight body, DMC, had convened only once in late 1999, and has
not played an active role in carrying its mandate;
·       In year 2000, the APDMU was transferred from the Finance Department to the Planning
Department that was responsible for providing the overall planning perspective for investments in
the state. The transfer led to an accelerated pace of implementation, and there was an increased
level of ownership and vigor, with more focused attention on critical hazard mitigation issues.
However, as the new department went through its learning curve, some key project
decision-makings were delayed during the initial transfer period;
·       Initially, insufficient counterpart funds had a significant impact on construction planning
and implementation. Shortage of counterpart funds led GoAP to defer the commencement of
infrastructure works, causing poor disbursements during the beginning of the project and failure
to complete some works by project completion;
·       The GoAP's procurement practice of maintaining a cap on bid prices (at 15 percent above
cost estimates) is inconsistent with Bank procurement rules. This practice may have resulted in
re-bidding, lack of contractor response to bid invitations, bid rejections and inaction by officials
on received bids without Bank knowledge in the case of post-review cases. In the case of prior
review cases where the value was 15 percent above the GoAP estimated value, re-bidding was
resorted to only when no bidder was qualified, or prices were high, and no rational justification
could be provided by the bidder, thereby disqualifying the bidder from re-bidding. Furthermore,
the Bank also formally advised GoAP to follow the Bank rule of not rejecting bids outside the
pre-determined margin and informed that bid document provisions will have to be followed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main factors under the implementing agency's control that affected the project are as follow:
·       Weak technical capacity within APDMU and implementing agencies. Overall, decision
making was centralized, coordination was poor and accountability was low. For instance, there
were inadequate coordination in environmental management, delays in procurement decisions and
payments, all of which exacerbated the slow pace of implementation;
·       High turnover of staff within the APDMU and line departments. This reduced the
continuity of project knowledge and ownership. This was attributed to the weak selection and
promotion of staff, and lack of clear institutional structure for APDMU;
·       Weak communication with the Bank. Despite repeated requests, progress reports were not
routinely submitted by the APDMU to the Bank and some works were not reported in advance.
As the result, some critical issues that need to be addressed in collaboration with the Bank, were


                                                    - 15 -

not addressed in a timely manner and remedial actions were taken belatedly.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The appraised project cost estimate was US $220 million, with the Bank contribution of US$ 150
million, GoAP contribution at US$ 67 million and GoI contribution at US$ 3 million. The latest
estimate of expenditures was approximately US$ 175 million, or 80 percent of the appraised
estimate. This was attributed to the depreciation of Indian Rupees against US dollars during the
project period. Bank disbursement was about 81 percent of the appraisal estimate, whereas
GoAP's contribution was about 79 percent. At closure, SDR 65 million was disbursed from the
credit out of original principal of SDR 72 million (US$ 86 million out of original principal of US
$100 million). Credit of SDR 7 million (US$ 9 million) was cancelled in June 2001 due to the
cancellation of the three Doppler Weather Radars. Total disbursement from loan was about US$
32 million out of original principal of US$ 50 million, with US$ 10 million cancelled due to the
depreciation of Indian Rupees..

There was a significant shift of different components' share of expenditures to total project cost.
Firstly, the estimated expenditure under the Hazard Mitigation component was much lower than
originally estimated, at about US$ 16 million or 33 percent of appraised cost. Its relative share to
total budget was also lower at 9 percent, compared to the estimated share of 22 percent. This was
mainly due to : (i) reduction in the cost of Coastal Mapping activity, which turned out to be 25
percent of appraisal estimate, due to having the study done by government agency APSRAC, as
opposed to international consultants as originally planned; and (ii) cancellation of the US$ 9
million Doppler Weather Radar System, following the Bank's declaration of mis-procurement.
Secondly, the TA expenditure was about US$ 28 million, or 189 % of appraised. This overrun
was largely associated with the increase in the mandal level computerization, procurement of
APDMU high end computers and other equipments, and disaster management planning
consultancy activities, all of which were agreed to during the project's midterm review.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The potential sustainability of the project overall is judged to be likely. Even though some of the
disaster mitigation activities were not yet fully completed at closing, the major challenges have
been surmounted, and relatively little effort is needed for completing the outstanding works. The
APDMU capacity, both institutionally and technically, has been significantly geared up and
significant investments have been made in its staff, systems and procedures, and equipment. For
instance, the early cyclone warning system that has been built in APDMU, is the most advanced
cyclone forecasting system within the country and South Asia region, with long-lasting impact not
only in AP, but also in the other cyclone prone areas along the East coast, thereby increasing the
potential for its well-keeping and future replication in other states within the country. As APDMU
transforms into the more autonomous and budgeted APDMS, it is likely to continue in carrying
out disaster mitigation activities and its further capacity building. However, to ensure
sustainability, continuing commitment and support from GoAP remain critical, and community
involvement and participation in disaster mitigation activities should be enhanced further.

On the infrastructure side, the sustainability of benefits from the major physical infrastructure



                                                - 16 -

works is also likely, as enhanced design and construction standards were applied under the
project, and replicated into other works outside the project as well. The institutionalization of a
maintenance system for the electric power supply works and promotion of community
participation in the irrigation, drainage and watershed works will help provide timely provision of
maintenance. Yet an effective operation and maintenance system overall, including the allocation
of adequate funds and resources, will be needed to ensure proper usage and maintenance, thereby
the enhancing the long term sustainability of all the infrastructure works.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project works were initially carried out by a team of specialists under the APDMU, in
collaboration with staff from different line departments. As the infrastructure project came to a
close, APDMU is left with its core team of disaster mitigation staff. With the project closure,
APDMU is to transform into APDMS. APDMS was created under the AP Planning Department
on January 6, 2003, as a budgeted autonomous society wherein the Chief Minister serves as
Chairman and Secretary of Planning Department as Chief Executive Officer. APDMS's primary
mandate is to formulate and coordinate AP's long-term disaster mitigation strategy, and an annual
budget of US$ 5 million has been allocated by GoAP for the next five years, which will
sufficiently support its disaster mitigation activities. Nevertheless, aside from GoAP's continuing
support and commitment, additional capacity building would still be needed through managerial
staff recruitment, training and development of systems and procedures, in order for APDMS to
realize its full potential. APDMS must also ensure the full completion of the hazard mitigation
activities to date, and incorporate them into the development and implementation of AP's disaster
mitigation framework in the longer run.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank provided rapid assessment and response, and the project's concept, objectives and
approach reflect an in-depth, thorough analysis of the issues and identification of actions required
for the mitigation of future cyclone disasters. Indeed, this led to the satisfactory rating provided
by the QAG's quality at entry assessment. However, since the borrower's ownership of the hazard
mitigation component appeared and proved to be lacking, the project would have benefited from
more concerted efforts in convincing the borrower on the criticality of this activity, for which a
better consensus may have been reached. In addition, insufficient attention was paid to the
availability of counterpart funds and design of institutional arrangements (the project had utilized
the existing APDMU under the GoAP Finance Department, which was responsible for
implementing the previous CERP project), although this was somewhat justified because of the
project's emergency nature. However, at closing, it was recognized that a lot of the delays could
have been avoided should the Bank had attempted more to address those issues during
preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
Project documentation demonstrates that the Bank team had attempted to provide quality inputs
to the Borrower. The aide memoires reflect good identification of the difficulties that needed to be
addressed during implementation and two to three mission visits on average were held per year.
Yet considering the project's highly complex and multi-sectoral nature, the project may have



                                                  - 17 -

benefited from supervision mission teams with more varied skills-mix (the initial missions
consisted of 4 members on average, largely with engineering and procurement background).
These supervision issues were improved with increased delegation to the local Bank team starting
in 2001, as demonstrated, for instance, by the more vigilant environmental and social safeguards
assessments. Yet much of the fundamental problems were already deeply rooted, and there was
barely enough time left for project completion.

Despite the whole-hearted attempts, overall, the Bank proved to be ineffective in causing the
Government to promptly take the required actions in executing key hazard mitigation activities.
The three times project extensions, which provided the window of opportunity, did not result in
timely resolution of outstanding issues, as no forceful actions were taken from the Bank's side. In
the end, this failure was not only attributed to the supervision team, but also to the Bank
management team. This is consistent with the findings from the Quality Supervision Assessment
done in September 2000, which provided a marginal rating.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Despite the genuine efforts made by the Bank supervision and management team overall, the poor
results in causing the Government to implement the required actions in a rigorous and timely
manner led to an unsatisfactory overall rating on the Bank performance.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Both GoAP and GoI provided good, knowledgeable staff, and were able to proactively point out
key issues in need for refinements, which led to rapid launch of the project. However, GoAP and
GoI respectively should have ensured much earlier that: (i) the clearances on the map data inputs
and procurement of Doppler Weather Radars were secured in a timely manner; (ii) appropriate
staffing arrangement had been put in place in APDMU and the implementing agencies, with a
longer term outlook; (iii) counterpart funding had been adequately allocated and made available;
(iv) the oversight policy making body, Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Council had been
created and fully functioning; and (v) more realistic project design parameters overall were agreed
to.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GoAP and GoI failed to support the project through speedy resolution of issues. Although many
of the problems should have been resolved during preparation, as mentioned above, there was
little concrete and speedy resolution provided during implementation, and many of them
continued to linger for a prolonged time. This was demonstrated by the following: (i) most of the
necessary clearances were obtained only after about two years; (ii) proper staffing and capacity
building of both APDMU and IMD were not fully ensured -- for instance, there was high turnover
staff, the disaster management expert position had long been vacant and little training was
provided; (iii) DMC only started to convene in late 1999, and has not been actively involved in
providing the necessary disaster mitigation policy directions, and (iv) the time-bound action plans
that were developed during project extensions were not fully adhered to, leading to continuing
downgrade of the project rating.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
APDMU's capacity and performance has been significantly built throughout project


                                               - 18 -

implementation and, at the end of the project, it is relatively ready to complete all the remaining
activities, integrate them into a comprehensive disaster mitigation framework, and mainstream
them into the overall state planning. The new APDMS structure provides it with more autonomy
in carrying out these tasks. The financial management capacity was also significantly improved, as
demonstrated by the reduction in audit disallowances and establishment of a meticulous
maintenance system for tracking claims and reimbursements. However, the initial failure in
securing the necessary approvals for some of the activities in a timely manner and weak
managerial capacity led to the non-completion of some key disaster mitigation activities and
impaired achievement of project objectives. Also, there was no collaborative communication with
the Bank despite repeated requests, which led to some delays in the resolution of project
implementation issues.

On the infrastructure side, APDMU failed to ensure and coordinate the environmental
management safeguards, which resulted in the absence of proper environmental screening process
on the works. The performance of the different line departments under the infrastructure
component was largely varied. AP Transco was most capable in carrying quality works within
reasonable time and budget, whereas significant amount of capacity building was needed by some
of the other agencies, particularly in undertaking the project activities in accordance with the
Bank's social and environmental safeguards, as well as procurement and financial management
guidelines.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above assessments, the overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Significant lessons on emergency and disaster management operations were learned, which are as
follow:
·       Combining long-term disaster mitigation activities management into a three year
emergency reconstruction project proved to be unrealistic and contributed to the failure in
completing some of the disaster mitigation activities within the expected timeframe. Longer term
disaster mitigation planning requires a longer period of time, extensive capacity building and, most
importantly, strong ownership from the Borrower's part for successful mainstreaming into
state-wide developmental efforts;
·       Early resolution is required on the institutional arrangements for a core institution with
adequate capacity and power to take the lead in hazard mitigation activities. Long-term hazard
mitigation is a multi-sectoral activity distinct from short-term preparedness and response, as it
involves developing of risk and vulnerability assessments, disaster management planning, design
and construction criteria, code enforcement, development and maintenance of hazard mitigation
information systems and provision of information to the state apparatus for decision making on
planning and disaster warning. The initial decision of placing the APDMU under the Finance
Department, whose main agenda was budget allocations and disbursements, did not fit with the
longer term disaster mitigation objective;
·       Adequacy of project preparation is crucial, and this should continue to be followed up
rigorously during implementation period in the case of emergency operation. Inadequate field
investigations and technical designs created various implementation problems, which affected the



                                                  - 19 -

quality of output. The project may have benefited more from a phased approach that takes up the
simpler and most critical works first, while undertaking the minimum required preparatory works
on more complex works for subsequent implementation;
·       The GoAP's maintenance of cap on bid prices is inconsistent with Bank procurement rules,
as it may result in rebidding, lack of credible response to bid invitations, bid rejections and delayed
action, which in the end would hamper the quality of work. This issue may have been mitigated to
a certain extent, through imposing annual revisions of the Schedule of Rates and more realistic
reflection of market rates during cost estimation;
·       Efficient project management and delegation of full administrative and financial powers to
implementing agency proved to be beneficial. The absence of a Chief Technical Officer and
Disaster Management Expert within the DMU had impaired APDMU's performance. These are
crucial posts for coordinating, monitoring and reporting of the progress. Proper staffing of these
posts would facilitate delegation of decision making on routine and non-critical matters to a lower
level, which would lead to more expeditious decision making;
·       Information dissemination, capacity building of the implementing agencies' staff and
proper due diligence are crucial, particularly in complex, multi-sectoral projects. This complex
project involved a number of line departments of GoAP, and not all staff may be familiar with
World Bank procedures of procurement, preparing reimbursement claims etc. A Project Launch
Workshop should be held prior to implementation in order to ensure proper understanding of
project implementation details. Training in World Bank procedures applicable to project should
also be conducted at the beginning of the project, and the trainees must include staff in the central
coordinating unit (APDMU in this case), as well as the staff from each line department who are
associated with the project. Moreover, more in-depth prior review is needed particularly on the
first batch of sub-projects to ensure that proper due diligence takes place and a systemized
process is in place;
·       Establishment of a specialized maintenance wing within AP Transco and initiation of
community involvement in maintenance proved to have considerably contributed to more
trouble-free operation and strengthened maintenance. Yet continuous provision of budget must be
ensured, and there needs to be a systematic approach in aligning incentives and raising the
awareness of the local communities in infrastructure maintenance;
·       Extension to project implementation period provides the window of opportunity for
remedial actions and should be followed up more rigorously during the extension period. The
Bank should emphasize more that the extensions are contingent upon full compliance to the
agreed action plan. To that regard, the action plan developed need to be realistic and a
restructuring of the project development objectives should be considered when appropriate.
Moreover, strong management support and oversight are crucial in ensuring intensive and
effective supervision efforts;
·       Greater involvement of local Bank staff enabled more continuous, hands-on supervision,
and more timely follow-up in resolution of project implementation issues, particularly through the
use of available pool of varied expertise in social, environmental, financial management and
procurement;
·       Land acquisition and resettlement impacts need to be fully considered for implementation
of infrastructure works. Some of the infrastructure works were kept outside the project at the
commencement, due to the potential adverse impacts, but were later included since they form a
key part of infrastructure facilities that needed to be restored. Therefore, whenever any



                                                 - 20 -

infrastructure works are planned, the land acquisition and resettlement policy provisions and
procedures should be included at the commencement of the project in order to address such issues
during implementation;
·       Ownership of the environment management procedures by the borrower, and a framework
for effective co-ordination between the line implementing agencies need to be pre-conditioned at
project appraisal. Mainstreaming environmental management in a project involving numerous
sub-projects, could only be effective when adequate attention is paid to build environmental
management capacity (including staffing and training) in the implementing agencies. This requires
commitment of the top-management, designation of a senior officer responsible for implementing
and coordinating the environmental management actions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments were received from the Government of Andhra Pradesh and India Meteorological
Department (IMD). However, the IMD provided its evaluation of the project, which is attached as Annex
10 of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                               - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Completion of hazard management             Models were completed substantially. They      Models were completed, yet remain to be
studies.                                        have to be integrated in a unified model.      integrated into an unified model.
(b) Preparation of hazard maps.                                                                Completed.
(c) Formulation of a hazard management          Though the ground work on plans was done, Individual plans for cyclone, draught and
plan for the state.                             the disaster management plans are not yet      earthquake were completed, yet they remain
                                                completed.                                     to be integrated into a Multi-hazard Disaster
                                                                                               Management Plan
(d) Formation of the State Disaster Mitigation                                                 Completed
Council.
(e) Creation of the Disaster Management                                                        Completed
Unit.
(f) Formulation of the financial, technical                                                    Completed
and operational articles of agreements for the
Vulnerability Reduction Fund.
(g) Deployment of information technology                                                       Completed
(IT) facilities to the mandals.
(a) Development of planning, design and                                                        Completed
construction criteria from a hazard
management point of view.
(b) Completion of repair and reconstruction                                                    Completed
of roads, bridges, power facilities, irrigation
structures and public buildings.
(a) Establishment of six Doppler radar                                                         Action dropped
facilities on the east coast of India.
(b) Setting up 10 high speed wind recorders                                                    Completed
and ancillary equipment.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
A. HAZARD MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Cyclone & Flood Management Studies              Studies A and B, including watershed and       Studies A and B, including watershed and
                                                integrated coastal zone management plans,      integrated coastal zone management plans,
                                                were substantially completed.                  have been completed but remain to be
                                                                                               integrated.
Disaster Management Plans                       GoAP had decided to develop individual         Individual disaster management plans
                                                disaster management plan for each type of      completed, but remain to be finalized and
                                                disaster. Progress are as follow: (i) Cyclone: integrated into a state multi-hazard disaster
                                                historical database created, regional          management plan
                                                workshops held in 3 districts, but draft plans
                                                not yet submitted; (ii) Earthquake: no
                                                outcome achieved as IR has not been
                                                cleared by GOAP and payments have not
                                                been made to consultant; (iii) Drought:
                                                software models for prediction of drought
                                                impacts was prepared and tested, but no
                                                draft plan submitted
Creation of AP Disaster Management Unit         In addition to the APDMU, AP Disaster          Same progress as in last PSR
and other agencies                              Mitigation Council (the disaster mitigation
                                                policy setting committee) and District
                                                Disaster Management Committee (the
                                                committee that was to organize and monitor
                                                community-based hazard reduction activities)
                                                had been established, but have not yet been
                                                effective in carrying out their mandate. The
                                                APDMS was regiestered as an autonomous
                                                disaster mitigation society in January 2003.
Vulnerability Reduction Fund                    VRF was created in 1998, but became            Same progress as in last PSR




                                                                    - 22 -

                                              operational only in 2000. Coverage of
                                              disaster mitigation activities had been limited.
GOI - Cyclone Early Warning System
Training                                      Training for new equipments were provided       Same progress as in last PSR
                                              largely packaged with the procurement of
                                              equipments.
Equipment installed                           Doppler systems were canceled under the         All remaining equipments were installed.
                                              project and installed with IMD's own funds,
                                              10 wind speed recorders installed at various
                                              IMD offices along the east coast of India.
                                              Only 71 DCWS was installed.
B. RESTORATION OF
INFRASTRUCTURE
Electric Power Facilities
Strengthening of transmission lines,          Works completed satisfactorily, with more       Same progress as in last PSR
construction of new lines and new             robust and better quality and satisfactory
substations (132/220/33/11 KV lines and       operation and maintenance system
substations)
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of drainage Work completed satisfactorily, yet the          Same progress as in last PSR
network and flood embankments (drains and institutionalized O&M system remained
flood embankments)                            unclear.
Repair, strengthening and reconstruction of   Marginally satisfactory. As preliminary         Same progress as in last PSR
roads and bridge under the State Roads and estimates were inadequate, actual costs were
building department and Panchayati Raj        higher than estimated and substantial
                                              cutbacks to the scope of work had to be
                                              made. Maintenance remains an issue.
Repair and reconstruction of collapsed or     Marginally satisfactory. As preliminary         Same progress as in last PSR
damaged State Buildings and Panchayati Raj estimates were inadequate, actual costs were
buildings                                     higher than estimated and substantial
                                              cutbacks to the scope of work had to be
                                              made. Maintenance remains an issue.
Watershed management and planting of tree Marginally satisfactory, with some quality          Same progress as in last PSR
shelterbelts and emergency shelters           concerns particularly, as the necessary O&M
                                              and replenishment systems are not in place.
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Provision of APDMU incremental operating      All completed, except for early warning and     Same progress as in last PSR
costs, community early warning and            awareness consultancy.
awareness raising consultancy, non-study
consultancy and trainings

1 End of project




                                                                 - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
I. Hazard Management Programme                              48.64           15.89            32.67
II. Infrastructure Restoration                             156.71          131.36            83.82
III. Technical Assistance                                   14.61           27.64           189.19

Total Baseline Cost                                        219.96          174.89
                           Total Project Costs             219.96          174.89
                   Total Financing Required                219.96          174.89


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00         101.30        30.00          0.00         131.30
                                    (0.00)        (65.90)      (19.80)         (0.00)       (85.70)
2. Goods                            38.00          11.10         1.00          0.00         50.10
                                   (30.04)         (7.20)      (0.70)          (0.00)       (37.94)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00        27.30          0.00         27.30
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (23.50)         (0.00)       (23.50)
4. Land Acquisition                  0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Project Administration            0.00           0.00         5.60          0.00          5.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.50)          (0.00)       (2.50)
6. Miscellaneous (VRF)               0.00           0.00         0.00          5.70          5.70
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                           38.00         112.40        63.90          5.70         220.00
                                   (30.04)        (73.10)      (46.50)         (0.00)      (149.64)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          98.20       15.05           0.00        113.25
                                    (0.00)        (65.79)     (10.27)         (0.00)       (76.06)
2. Goods                            19.99          10.23        0.95           0.00        31.17
                                   (18.99)        (9.72)       (0.86)         (0.00)       (29.57)
3. Services                          5.88          1.36         3.66           0.00        10.90
                                    (5.88)        (1.36)       (3.66)         (0.00)       (10.90)
4. Land Acquisition                  0.00          0.00         0.00           1.11         1.11
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Project Administration



                                                - 24 -

                                          0.00               0.00            12.08             0.00            12.08
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)          (4.83)            (0.00)           (4.83)
  6. Miscellaneous (VRF)                  0.00               0.00            0.00              6.38             6.38
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                             25.87              109.79           31.74             7.49           174.89
                                        (24.87)            (76.87)         (19.62)            (0.00)          (121.36)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services and incremental operating
      costs.
      NBF includes fund for Vulnerability Reduction Fund to be funded by GoAP.
      Because of the US$ 9 million cancellation from SDR and $10 million from loan, total actual Bank financing is lower
      than appraisal estimate.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank       Govt.        CoF.        Bank        Govt.        CoF.      Bank    Govt.    CoF.
Part A Hazard Mitigation      30.30       15.30         3.10       8.12        6.87         0.90      26.8     44.9    29.0
Part B Infrastructure         108.10      48.60         0.00       93.06       38.30        0.00      86.1     78.8    0.0
Restoration
Part C Technical              11.60        3.00         0.00       20.18       7.46         0.00     174.0    248.7    0.0
Assistance
Total                         150.00      66.90         3.10       121.36      52.63        0.90      80.9     78.7    29.0




                                                         - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1.       The economic rationale for cyclone emergency planning and mitigation is based on the promise that
the better are the economy's disaster planning measures to minimize damage, the lower will be the losses
inflicted on the economy. From an economic perspective, investments in cyclone emergency planning and
mitigation are deemed to be beneficial provided that the present value of the averted losses through these
measures outweigh the costs of mitigation over a specified time period.

2.       Averted Losses. Averted losses include both direct and indirect damage--that is, the loss of
damaged assets and inventories (direct), and the induced hardship on population and long-term impacts on
macroeconomic variables (indirect). Losses are necessarily difficult to quantify--especially in terms of
human lives and long-term effects. For purposes of the economic analysis of the project, we focus only on
the direct damage that can be quantified. In addition, there would be some indirect damage that can be
averted as well--which are not included in the economic analysis as they are non-quantifiable.

3.       Since the inception of the project from 1997, there has been no cyclone in AP. From May 1969 to
December 1996, covering a 26.5 year period, direct damage from nine cyclones has been valued at Rs.
17,070 crores (at 1990 prices). In addition, almost 17,000 people were killed and 10 crore people have
been affected as a result of these cyclones (Table 1).

            Table 1: Damage Assessment of Major Cyclones in Andhra Pradesh (1969-1996)

                              Persons Killed       Persons Affected           Direct Damage in 1990
                                                                               prices (Rs. Billion)
May/November 1969                   858                    N/A                        14.7
September 1972                      100                4,500,000                      N/A
November 1976                       48                     N/A                         6.9
November 1977                     11,316               9,037,400                      29.2
May 1979                            638                1,700,000                      17.0
August/October 1983                 155               63,300,000                      11.1
November 1984                       565                  200,000                       3.4
May 1990                            967                8,000,000                      28.4
June/December 1996                 1,716               9,000,000                      60.0
Total                             16,363              95,737,400                      170.7
Note: See Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for sources of data.


4.       Costs of Mitigation. For purposes of the economic analysis, we take the costs to be the total
project outlay, under the assumption that all components would contribute to mitigation either directly or
indirectly. The total cost is estimated to be around Rs. 822 crores at current prices. Accounting for
inflation, this would be around Rs. 401 crores at 1990 prices.

5.       Economic Analysis at Project Design. The economic analysis undertaken at the design stage
follows the lines of conventional net present value analysis. The analysis is based on various assumptions
regarding probability of cyclones and percentage of damage that could be averted following project
interventions. The economic analysis for the ICR follows a similar methodology, and updates data where
available.

6.       Assumptions for Economic Projections in Base Case. Due to lack of data on various



                                                     - 26 -

parameters, several further assumptions have been made in order to calculate simple benefit/cost ratios.
(Some of these assumptions are relaxed later.) First, it is assumed that benefits from the project would flow
over a 20-year time horizon. (This assumption is taken from the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President.) Second, the probability of a cyclone hitting the Andhra coast during the next 20 years is
assumed to be the same as the annual rate of the event during the 1969-1996 period. Third, it is assumed
that the damage from any cyclone during the next twenty years would have been the same without the
project, as the average damage from the nine cyclones of 1969-1996. Fourth, it is assumed that there
would be no expansion in infrastructure during the period of the economic analysis. Fifth, the real rate of
discount is assumed to be 5 percent for estimating the net present value of benefits.

7.                     Presumably, with the project interventions, some of the damage would be averted. However, it is
not clear, in the absence of real data, how much potential direct damage without the project interventions
could be averted following measures undertaken by the project. Accordingly, economic projections are
based on a range of values--beginning from a case where only 2 percent of the damage is averted to one
where as much as 20 percent of the damage is averted.

8.                     Benefit/Cost Ratios. Benefit/cost ratios are calculated under various assumptions of percentage
of damage averted. Results are presented in Figure 1.
________________________________________________________________________________


                            Figure 1: Benefit to Cost Ratio; Various Scenarios
                      5



                      4

   Ratio
                      3
        Cost
            to
                      2


              Benefit                                               Benefit/Cost Ratio = 1
                      1



                      0
                       0               5               10               15                20
                                          Percentage of Damage Averted

______________________________________________________________________________

9.                     In the base case scenario, it appears that as long as 4.62 percent or more of the potential damage
can be averted, the net present value of the project benefits would outweigh the costs. As is to be expected,
the benefit/cost ratios are higher as the percentage of damage averted goes up.

10.                    Relaxing Some Assumptions. The base case has been derived under various assumptions as
discussed above. Relaxing some of these restrictive assumptions can enhance the cost-effectiveness of the
project.

Ø                      If cyclones hit AP more frequently over the next 20 years than was the case over the 1969-1996
period, benefit/cost ratios would be higher.
Ø                      Estimates show that infrastructure increased by a factor if 12 to 15 during the 19th and 20th
centuries, on average. If infrastructure increases instead of remaining constant in AP, the averted losses



                                                                    - 27 -

would be higher--and so would the benefit/cost ratios.
Ø        A real rate of discount of 5 percent is a somewhat high estimate for a 20-year horizon. If the
returns to capital are lower, the benefit/cost ratios would be higher.
Ø        If benefits flow beyond a 20-year horizon--as is likely--benefit/cost ratios would be higher.

11.      Overall Cost Effectiveness. The economic analysis estimates that the project is likely to be
economically justified even on the basis of averting losses through direct damages only. While there are no
estimates of direct averted losses due to the project in the absence of a cyclone following the inception of
the project, it is likely that more than 4.62 percent of the potential damage without the project interventions
can be averted as a result of project initiatives. Due to the enhanced early warning system, the lead time of
a cyclone has increased from 6-12 hours to 48 hours. This is likely to provide more time to relocate and
prepare for emergencies, and help avert significant damage. Overall, investment into cyclone hazard
mitigation is likely to pay-off in the medium to long run.

12.      Intangibles. The assessed damage on which the economic analysis is based does not include
intangibles like loss of life, or long run macroeconomic impacts. Despite having omitted these additional
damages, and given conservative estimates on various parameters, the investment shows the potential for
significant benefits. The benefit/cost ratio would be even higher if there were a way to integrate intangibles
into the analysis.




                                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/19/1996               7    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                            (1); LEAD SOCIAL DEV.
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (3);


 Supervision

              09/09/1997               4    PROCUREMENT (1);                 S               S
                                            IRRIGATION (1);
                                            RECONSTRUCTION (1);
                                            PLANNING (1)
              11/21/1997               3    PROCURMENT (1);                  S               S
                                            RECONSTRUCTION (1);
                                            PLANNING (1)
              05/02/1998               3    PROCUREMENT (1);                 U               U
                                            COMMUNITY PARTICIPATIO
                                            (1); IRRIGATION (1)
              07/19/1998               6    TASK LEADER (1);                 U               U
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            ENGINEERING (1); DISASTER
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING
                                            (1); IRRIGATION SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              11/30/1998               4    ENGINEERING/PROCUREME            U               U
                                            N (1); INFORMATION
                                            TECHNOLOGY (1); ROADS &
                                            BRIDGES (1); IRRIGATION (1)
              2/25/1999                8    MISSION LEADER(1);               U               U
                                            INFORMATION
                                            TECHNOLOGY (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING
                                            (1); PLANNING (1);
                                            IRRIGATION (1); POWER (1)
              10/20/1999               6    ENGINEERING (1);                 U               U
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            IRRIGATION (1); ROADS AND
                                            BUILDINGS (1); PLANNING
                                            (1); GIS / REMOTE SENSING
                                            (1)



                                             - 29 -

06/20/2000    11 URBAN CLUSTER LEADER          S    S
                 (1); TASK LEADER (1);
                 ENGINEERING / PROCUREM
                 (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                 (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                 (1); POWER ENGINEER (1);
                 PROCUREMENT (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT (1);
                 INFRASTRUCTURE RECONST
                 (3)
12/02/2000    2  TASK LEADER (1); SOCIAL       S    S
                 DEVELOPMENT (1)
3/1/2001      7  TASK LEADER (1); SOCIAL       S    U
                 DEVELOPMENT(1);
                 PROCUREMENT (1); TEAM
                 LEADER-URBAN(1);
                 CONSULTANTS (2);
                 DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                 (1)
06/23/01      7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    U
                 TEAM LEADER - URBAN (1);
                 SR. SOCIAL DEV. SPL.(1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPL. (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                 (1); CONSULTANTS (2)
07/19/01      2  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                 OPERATIONS ADVISOR (1)
11/22/2001    7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    S
                 OPERATIONS ADVISOR (1);
                 SR. SOCIAL DEV.SPECIAL
                 (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                 SPECIALI (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                 (1); CONSULTANT (2)
05/04/2002    7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                 DISASTER MGT. SPECIALI
                 (1); SR. SOCIAL DEV. SPECIA
                 (1); DISBURSEMENT
                 ANALYST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); CONSULTANT (2)
5/18/02       2  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                 COUNTRY COORDINATOR
                 (1)
11/25/2002    8  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                 DISASTER MGT.SPECIALIS
                 (1); SR.SOCIAL
                 DEV.SPECIALI (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); DISBURSEMENT
                 ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
                 (3)
01/22/03      4  TASK TEAM LEADER(1);



                 - 30 -

                                           DISASTER MANAGEMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1); SECTOR
                                           MANAGER (1); COUNTRY
                                           COORDINATOR (1)
               05/19/2003              8   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              U    U
                                           DISASTER MGT. SPECIALI
                                           (1); SR URBAN SPECIALIST
                                           (1); SR. SOCIAL (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (4)

 ICR
               10/06/2003             7     ICR TEAM LEADER (1);              S    U
                                            TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            DISASTER MGT.
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                            SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                76.00                        160.00
  Supervision                        225.40                         347.70
  ICR
  Total                                301.4                         503.7




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Resettlement
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Documents

l Loan Agreement dated June 3, 1997
l Project Agreement dated June 3, 1997
l Development Credit Agreement dated June 3, 1997


Reports

l Technical Annex on a proposed Loan and Credit dated April 11, 1997
l Memorandum and Recommendation of the President dated April 11, 1997
l Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports
l Borrower's and implementing agencies' Progress Reports
l QAG, Quality at Entry Assessment Report dated
l Quality of Supervision Assessment dated November 2000




                                              - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. Land Acquisition and Resettlement

1.       Overall Assessment.       The social safeguards relating with land acquisition and land
resettlement, which were later added during the project at the request of the borrower, were
substantially complied with, including the delivery of entitlements and compensation to land
owners affected by the project. The resettlement program was implemented satisfactorily, with
more than 90 percent of project-affected persons (PAPs) having received their entitlements.
Displaced households were provided with alternative core house or made their own arrangements
with the assistance provided under the project. Similarly, all those who lost place for their petty
shops were either shifted beyond the corridor of impact or allotted attentive place for
reestablishment of their shops. However, at the time of ICR it was noted that there were some
outstanding issues that need to be followed by GoAP beyond the project completion, which are
detailed below. Moreover, a more compressive resettlement implementation impact assessment
study is needed in order to assess whether the affected people's living standards were improved
and confirm that the RAP's overall objectives were met. The following paragraphs offer the
summary of progress in the outstanding land acquisition and resettlement actions as of the time of
ICR.

3.      Delivery of compensation and rehabilitation assistance. There were two main
outstanding issues in the delivery of compensation and rehabilitation assistance which are as
follows:

(a) Land owners affected by bridge works of R&B department: The borrower did not report to
the Bank the impacts associated with the bridge works at the time of commencement of these
works. As a result of findings during one of the field visits, the borrower was asked to prepare the
details of impacts which identified 64 land owners are due for compensation, and out of these 21
are also eligible to receive the rehabilitation assistance. Because of this late identification, the
affected people did not receive the compensation prior to the commencement of project, which
led to non-compliance to the R&R policy provisions. The Bank was informed that about 45-50
land owners ( about 70% of total number of land owners) have been paid the compensation at the
time of ICR, while another 8-10 (15% of the total number of land owners due for compensation)
have filed cases in the courts for enhancement of compensation, and the remaining will be
receiving the compensation shortly. The delivery of rehabilitation assistance was to be initiated,
and for this the DMU and R&B was ascertaining the necessary information at the district level. A
consolidated statement on payment of compensation and an updated report on the delivery of
rehabilitation assistance to the eligible PAPs are to be submitted to the Bank..

(b) Homeless PAPs: Three families were rendered homeless due to submergence of the allotted
plots under Ananthavaram-Pallmkur Road project, continued to stay in the rented houses, with
rent being paid by the local panchyat, who is exploring alternative housing under different
government programs. As soon as they allot an alternatives housing plots for the PAPs, the
payment of rent will be discontented.




                                                - 35 -

4.     Status of Delivery of Compensation and Resettlement Assistance: The following is the
summary of status of deliver of entitlements to project affected people at the time of Bank's ICR
mission.

N0 Sub-project              Payment        Allotment         Allotment       Payment of         Payment of
                                 of             of                of         rehabilitati         shifting
                           compensa        alternativ       alternative            on           allowance*
                               tion        e house or       shop site or      assistance*
                           Under LA          site/own          shifting
                                act        arrangem         away from
                                                ent         Corridor of
                                                               Impact
1    Ananthavaram-               1              36                189            -------             225
     Pallamkur Road         (100.0%)        (100.0%)          (100.0%)                           (100.0%)
2    Karimnagar-Ka              ---             ----              68              ------              68
     mareddy road                                             (100.0%)                           (100.0%)
3    Nell ore                  540             ------             ---              38                ----
     Medium Drains          (100.0%)                                           (100.0%)
4    Bhardachalam               32            213**                4               10                216
     Flood bank             (100.0%)        (100.0%)          (100.0%)         (100.0%)          (100.0%)
5    Dayyamvaku                205              4*             ---------           43                 4
     Flood Bank             (100.0%)        (100.0%)                           (100.0%)          (100.0%)
6    Bridges in R&B           64***            -----             ------            20               ------
     roads                   (0.00%)                                            (0.00%)
     TOTAL                     842             253                261             111*              513*
                            (92.4%)         (100.0%)         (100.0%)            (82.0)          (100.0%)
Note: The figures in parentheses indicate percentages to total target number of person/families to receive
compensation or assistance.

* Mutually inclusive
** One Project Affected Household (PAH) was provided house plot in lieu of 2 months rental allowance
*** Some of the PAPs have been paid compensation, but the details are not readily available. A
consolidated statement on this is to be submitted by the client to the Bank

5.     Resettlement Implementation Impact Assessment study: The DMU had earlier written
to the Bank that the resettlement impact assessment was completed. However, no such report was
submitted by the consultant so far. A local consultant had been contacted to undertake the study
who had visited one of the resettlement site and carried out the survey among the project affected
persons. However, the consultant was not provided the ToR, which had been drafted together
with the Bank during the May 2002 mission. The Bank ICR mission interacted with the consultant
and clarified about the terms of reference for the study. It was clarified to APDMU that the ToR,
RAPs, baseline survey reports and other supporting document should be provided to the
consultant immediately to enable the consultant to proceed with the study in accordance with the
ToR. The Bank understood that the consultant did not proceed further since the borrower had not
issued the consultancy contract. Thus, it is concluded that the borrower had failed to fulfill its



                                                       - 36 -

commitment in carrying out the resettlement impact assessment study as described in the RAP,
though the Bank had provided the draft TOR atleast one year prior to credit closing and the cost
of the study was fully budgeted in the RAP.




                                            - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Environmental Management


Environmental Management

1.      The project had a large number of sub-projects spread over a wide geographical area,
which included coastal areas, deltaic areas, forests, lakes and other ecologically important areas.
Although estimates of direct environmental impacts of the project are not known, the impacts
should be low, considering that the individual sub-projects were small in size.

Project's Targeted Environmental Management Actions

2.      The Technical Annex to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the
IBRD & the IDA noted that the lack of long-term hazard management planning and control has
led to a number of environmental problems in the coastal districts. The environmental issues
associated with the project included denudation of forest cover along the coast, the siting of
infrastructure without consideration of hazard risks, and the lack of maintenance of infrastructure
assets.
3.      Although the project was classified as an Environmental Category B project, which did
not require a full environmental assessment, procedures for environmental screening and
assessment for the project were agreed upon, which constituted Attachment 17 of the Technical
Annex.
4.      It was agreed that the GoAP will ensure that sub-project implementing agencies observe
systematic procedures for environmental analysis during project planning and implementation. The
outlined procedures include the following:
·       The responsibility of environmental screening rests with the APDMU. This includes
developing, jointly with the line implementing agencies, the detailed environmental evaluation
criteria, recommended checklists and questionnaires;
·       The line implementing agencies are to prepare an initial environmental brief as part of each
sub-project proposal. Based on the environmental brief, the APDMU would then carry out the
environmental screening. If the screening suggests that a more detailed Environment Assessment
is needed, the APDMU is to prepare detailed terms of reference for an EA, which would be
undertaken by the implementing line agencies;
·       For sub-projects wherein environmental issues are considered significant, the APDMU is
to institute a systematic monitoring process;
·       The line implemeting agencies are to organise inter-departmental consultations with
GOAP or GOI agencies on environmental issues arising from any sub-project.
6.       There are also provisions for capacity building of the APDMU with regards to
environmental management and specification that each completed sub-project proposal is to be
reviewed by an environmental specialist within the APDMU.




                                                - 38 -

Implementation of the Environmental Management Actions

7.      Despite of the commitments mentioned above, no proper environmental screening and
assessment process had taken place under the project. According to the line departments,
including the district level engineers managing the sub-projects, they were unaware of such
environmental management requirements. There was no demonstration of proper oversight and
direction by the APDMU in fulfilling the environmental safeguard requirements.
8.      Fortunately, given that the sub-projects were relatively small in size, and a large majority
of these were reinstatement/reconstruction works, the overall environmental impact was low. No
major environmental issue was reported, except in the works of new bridge on Buckingham canal
at Vedapalem, within the Pulicot Wildlife Sanctuary. The construction of the bridge and approach
roads was stopped for 5 months by the wildlife authorities. The works were later completed, in
agreement with and incorporating suggestions of the Forest Department (although systematic
assessment of the possible impacts ­ such as disintegration of the wild sanctuary was not
undertaken). Plantation of Eucalyptus as part of the coastal belt plantation, which was
discontinued during the latter part of the project, had also reportedly affected the ground water
table.
9.      These impacts could have been minimised and better managed, had there been adequate
preparation and supervision. Moreover, proper environmental screening assessment would have
been helpful in strengthening the implementation of cyclone shelters, public buildings, coastal
shelter belt and mangrove plantation sub-projects.
10.     As for the cyclone and flood management studies, and coastal mapping, environmental
issues were duly considered. Although they were not subjected to environmental assessments, the
very nature of these studies ensured that environmental issues were properly considered.

Bank Performance on Environmental Management :

11.     The overall Bank performance in environmental is unsatisfactory. At the time of project
preparation, the potential environmental impacts were viewed to be low, due to the small size of
the individual sub-projects, thereby an environmental category of B was adequately assigned.
However, not even a limited environmental assessment was undertaken during project
preparation. Given that this was an emergency recovery project, flexibility in dealing with the
environmental safeguards documentation is acceptable. However, it appears that the outlined
procedures for environmental screening and assessment were prepared without significant
consultation with the line implementation agencies. It was evident that there was no ownership by
both APDMU and the line departments in enforcing the environmental screening and assessment
procedures.
12.     The outline procedures did not detail the responsibilities for environmental management
action and the output schedule. A number of actions, such as the preparation of the screening
criteria, were deferred to the implementation period and the monitoring parameters, schedule and
responsibilities were not duly identified. Moreover, no capacity building program (including
staffing and training) was developed for the APDMU or the line implementation agencies. Thus,
the quality of the project preparation with respect to environment management was less than
satisfactory.
13.     Bank performance was also unsatisfactory during project implementation. For the first 3



                                                - 39 -

years of the project, Bank's supervision teams did not include environmental specialists and the
lack of implementation of the agreed environmental management actions was not properly pointed
out. This shortcoming was first raised in 2001 and this was followed up by the undertaking of a
fuller scale environmental supervision. However, as most of the infrastructure sub-projects were
already or almost completed by that time, the remedial actions that could be taken are limited.

Borrower's Performance on Environmental Management

14.     The overall Borrower performance environmental management is also unsatisfactory.
There appears to be no ownership or even understanding of the outlined procedures for
environmental screening and assessment included in the Technical Annex, which led to poor
implementation of those procedures.
15.     During implementation, none of the line agencies prepared the required environmental
briefs and the APDMU did not properly screen the sub-projects for their potential environmental
impacts. As recorded during supervision mission aide memoire in November 2001, the line
agencies were unaware of environmental screening or any other management requirements.
During the entire project duration, there was no environmental specialist in the APDMU, as was
originally planned. Moreover, there was no training on environment management, formal or
informal, no evidence of any inter-departmental consultation before, during or after sub-project
implementation, except in the case of the bridge on Buckingham canal at Vedapalem, where
consultations were forced by the stoppage of works by the wildlife authorities.
16.     Although specifically mentioned in the Technical Annex, the sub-project
preparation/monitoring consultants (such as the quality assurance and certification consultants fort
the roads and the bridges works), did not examine the environmental issues associated with the
sub-projects. The APDMU did not include the assessment of compliance with the procedures for
environmental screening and assessment in the ToR, even though this was recommended as in the
outline ToR annexed in the Technical Annex.
17.     Documentation: It is likely that good construction management practices in some of the
sub-projects had mitigated the environmental impacts to some extent, yet this was not adequately
documented. One palpable reason could be the high staff turnover within the line departments. In
2001, the Bank recommended that the APDMU collect information from various implementing
agencies (with help of former staff of the line departments) and document the efforts in managing
environmental issues during the entire project implementation period. The Bank also suggested
that, in case such documentation is not feasible, the APDMU procure the service of carrying out
an environmental audit of sample sub-projects. However, the Borrower declined to undertake
such an environmental audit, as it views that it was already very late to re-examine the completed
sub-projects.
18.     By November 2001, the GoAP requested that no "new requirements be loaded-on" to the
project at the concluding stage. The GoAP was aware that environmental screening or assessment
was not carried out in the project, and was ready and willing to accept an "unsatisfactory" rating
on the management of environmental issues.




                                                - 40 -

Lessons Learned in Environmental Management

19.     Ownership of the environment management procedures by the Borrower, and a
framework for effective co-ordination between the line implementing agencies need to be set as
pre-conditions for project appraisal. Mainstreaming environmental management in a project
involving numerous sub-projects, as the project originally targeted, could only be effective when
adequate attention is paid during the early phase of the project to build environmental
management capacity (including staffing and training) within the APDMU and line implementing
agencies.
20.     Commitment of the top-management within APDMU and the line implementing agencies
is essential to ensure implementation of the environmental management actions. A senior officer
should have been appointed in APDMU with the specific designated responsibility to ensure
implementation and coordination of environmental management actions.
21.     The scope of environmental issues need to be fully examined within the context of the
project, particularly during project preparation. Although the project was deemed to have a "low
environmental impact", better co-ordination and commitment from the line implementing
agencies, and pro-activeness from the APDMU would have minimised adverse environmental
impacts and further improve the overall implementation of works.
22.     Environmental specialists should be more involved in the supervision of infrastructure
projects, especially during the early phase of the project, to ensure that the environmental
management plan was adequately followed. Engaging environment specialists when the
infrastructure sub-projects have been or almost completed proves to be ineffective.




                                                - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower Evaluation of the Project (Unedited)

The following evaluation of the project was received from the India Meteorological Department (IMD),
which was the implementing agency for the enhancement of early cyclone warning capacity. No evaluation
report was received from the Government of Andhra Pradesh.

Assessment of the objectivity of the Project :

The main objective of the project is to enhance IMD's Cyclone Warning capability on the east coast of
India. Following were the components of the project :
1. 3 Nos. of Doppler Weather Radars
2. 10 Nos. of High Wind Speed Recorders (HWSR)
3. 100 Nos. of Digital Cyclone Warning Dissemination Systems (DCWDS)

Doppler Weather Radar could not be procured under the project due to misprocurement declared by World
Bank. The reason for delay was due to very late administrative approval, since a large number of
Government agencies were involved in obtaining the final approval for procurement of radar.

10 nos. of HWSRs were procured by IMD and installed at the coastal stations for recording high wind
speed data during cyclonic storms affecting the coastal areas of bay of Bengal. These recorders are
working satisfactorily except the one at Puri, which is being attended to by IMD personnel and will be
serviced shortly.

All the 100 DCWDS equipments have been installed in the coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh alongwith
uplink earth station equipment at Chennai. All equipment are working generally satisfactorily. Minor
problem with some of the equipment are being attended to by the firm.

Evaluation of IMD's performance :

IMD has put in best possible efforts for procurement, testing and installation of these equipment, and due
to active participation of IMD's officers and staff members, the installation work could be completed within
scheduled time period.

Evaluation of Bank's performance :

The World Bank officials coordinated very well in the project. However, administrative delays in
approvals and reallocation of funds caused some inconvenience in the reimbursement process. Also, inspite
of repeated requests and several meetings held with World Bank officials, the decision for misprocurement
of 3 DWRs was not revoked.

Lesson learned from the Project :

Time schedule and operational action plan formulated by World Bank for procurement and installation of
various equipment under the project must be strictly followed to effectively implement time bound project




                                                    - 42 -

- 43 -

