Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. T-7100-IN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR AN
ANDHRA PRADESH HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE
RECOVERY PROJECT
April 11, 1997
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 11
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAL[NTS
(as of March 1997)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 - Rs35.50
WEIGHTS AND MEAStURES
I meter (m)     3.228 feet
I kilometer (km)     0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)    2.47 acres (ac)
10 lakhs     Rs. I million
I crore     Rs. 10 minillion
Fiscal Year of Borrov-er
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP            =              Andhra Pradesh
APDMC         =              AP Disaster Mitigation Council
APDMU                       AP Disaster NManagement Unit
APRSAC        =             Al' Remote Sensing Applications Center
APSEB         =             AP State Electricity Board
CERP          =             Cyclone Elmergency Reconstruction Project
DDMC          =              District Disater Management Committee
GOAP          -             Governmieni ef Andhra Pradesh
GOI           -             Government ol lndia
ICB           =              International Competitive Bidding
ICR           =              Implemenitation Completion Report
IMD           =              India Meteorological Department
NCB           -              National Competitive Bidding
NGO           =             Non-Governmnental Organization
O&M           =             Operation and Maintenianice
PMU           -              Project Management Unit
SOE           -             Statement of Expenditures
TOR           =             T erms of Re terence
Vice President               :      Mieko Nishimizu
Director                     :      Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief               :      Jean-Francois Bauer
Task Manager                       .lelena Pantelic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY
PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
Background  ........                       ...........................................................................I
Area Description ....................................................................................I
Vulnerability  to  Natural Hazards ....................................................................................I
AP  Vulnerability  Profile ....................................................................................2
Vulnerability  Factors ....................................................................................3
Disaster Management Record ....................................................................................4
Previous Bank  Involvement ....................................................................................5
The November 1996  Cyclone Disaster ....................................................................................6
Pre-cyclone Actions and Disaster Relief ....................................................................................6
Needs and  Priorities ....................................................................................7
Janmabhoomi -  A  Vehicle for Community  Mobilization ....................................................................................8
Bank  Response and  Strategy ....................................................................................9
Rationale  for Bank  Involvement ....................................................................................9
Project Objectives ...................................................................................                                                                        9
Recovery  Strategy ....................................................................................9
Project Description .................................................................................... 11
Project Components ................................................................................... 11
Project Cost and  Financing  Plan ...................................................................................                                                        18
Hazard  Reduction  Studies, Other Consultancies, Training  and  Equipment ........................................................ 19
Institutional Arrangements and  Project Implementation ................................................................................... 20
Policy  Framework ...................................................................................                                                                       20
Project Implementation  Period ...................................................................................                                                          20
Environmental and  Social Impact ...................................................................................                                                        20
Institutional Arrangements ...................................................................................                                                              21
Flow of Funds ................................................................................... 24
Project Implementation ...................................................................................                                                                  25
Procurement ................................................................................... 26
Disbursements ................................................................................... 28
Financial and  Economic Justification ...................................................................................                                                        30
Major Project Benefits and  Risks ................................................................................... 30
Performance  Monitoring  Indicators ..........................32....................................................................................... 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Attachments
1.     Summary Project Costs
2.     Estimated Schedule and Disbursements
3.     Detailed Project Costs with Phasing
4.     Vulnerability Reduction Fund
S.     Electric Power Facilities
6.     Irrigation and Drainage
7.     Roads and Bridges
8.     Mitigation Works (Cyclone Shelters, Tree Shelter Belts and Watershed Management)
9.     Draft GOAP Policy Statement on Long-term Hazard Mitigation
10.    AP Disaster Management Unit
11.    Community Involvement and Janmabhoomi Program
12.    Enhanced Design Standards
13.    Procurement Responsibilities, Committee of Secretaries and Fund Flow Arrangements
14.    Performnance Monitoring Indicators
15.    Outline Terms of Reference for Consultancies
16.    Economic Analysis
17.    Environmental Assessments
18.    Public Buildings
19.    List of Documents in Project File



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE
RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Section A: BACKGROUND
AREA DESCRIPTION
I.    Andhra Pradesh (AP) covers 274,000 square km on the east coast of India, and it is the
country's fifth largest state, accounting for 8.4 percent of its total area. It is surrounded by
Madhya Pradesh and Orissa to the north, Maharashtra to the north and west, Tamil Nadu and
Karnataka to the south, and the Bay of Bengal to the east. AP is also the fourth most populous
state, with a predominantly rural population of over 66 million.' Next to Tamil Nadu, the state
registers the highest proportion of agricultural labor households, and only one of its 23 districts
is considered non-rural. Its 29,293 villages are grouped into 1,104 mandals, which are basic
administrative units for regulatory, revenue and development functions. Three distinct
geographical regions include: Telengana, formerly part of the princely state of Hyderabad
(which includes the capital city), Rayalaseema, a drought-prone area comprising four districts
(Chittoor, Kurnool, Cuddapah and Anantapur), and Coastal Andhra, spread along the state's
1,030 km of fertile lands along the coastline on the Bay of Bengal. Coastal Andhra is divided in
nine districts, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari,
Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, and Nellore. Among these primarily agricultural districts, Guntur,
Krishna, and East and West Godavari are renowned for their complex and productive irrigation
systems, which take advantage of the deltas of two of India's largest rivers, the Godavari and the
Krishna. East and West Godavari by themselves are among the most prosperous areas of AP, as
well as most populous, with densities of 670 and 510 persons per sq km respectively, well over
the state's average of 268 persons per sq km. Sharp social divisions, however, characterize the
rural communities of the affluent delta and coastal plains, particularly between land-owning
upper castes and the landless dalits.
VULNERABILITY TO NATURAL HAZARDS
2.    In India, the cyclones develop in the pre-monsoon (April to May) and post-monsoon
seasons (October to December), but most of them tend to form in the month of November.
Cyclones on the east coast originate in the Bay of Bengal, the Andaman Sea or the South China
Sea, and usually reach the coastline of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal,
which are the most vulnerable to these types of hazards. Two of the deadliest cyclones of this
century, with fatalities of about 10,000 people in each case, took place in Orissa and Andhra
Pradesh during October 1971 and November 1977 respectively. The states bordering the Arabian
Sea on the west coast are not completely safe either, as Kerala, Gujarat - and to a lesser extent
Maharashtra - are also prone to cyclones. With a frequency of four cyclones per year, one of
which usually becomes severe, the Bay of Bengal accounts for seven percent of the annual
I   According to the 1991 census.



2
tropical cyclone activity worldwide. Despite this relatively low percentage, the level of human
and property loss that cyclones cause around the Bay is very high. Once the cyclones enter the
mainland, they give way to heavy rains which often translate into floods, as it was the case with
the damaging cyclone-induced floods in the Godavari delta, in August of 1986. Many drought-
prone areas adjacent to coastal districts in eastern maritime states are thus vulnerable to flash
floods originated by the torrential rains induced by the cyclonic depression. In addition to
cyclones and its related hazards, monsoon depressions over the north and central areas of the Bay
of Bengal move until reaching north and central India, including portions of Andhra Pradesh,
bringing heavy to very heavy rains and causing floods in the inland rivers between June and
September.
AP VULNERABILITY PROFILE
3.     Social and economic life of AP's population is characterized by recurring natural
disasters. The state is exposed to cyclones, storm surges, floods, and droughts. According to the
available disaster inventories, AP is the state that has suffered the most from the adverse effects
of severe cyclones. It has been estimated that about 44 percent of AP's total territory is
vulnerable to tropical storms and related hazards,2 while its coastal belt is likely to be the most
vulnerable region in India to these natural phenomena. Khamman district, in the Telengana
region, is affected by monsoon floods, along with five districts in Coastal AP. Four districts in
Rayalaseema and five in Telengana experience drought. Along the coastline, the section between
Nizampatnam and Machilipatnam is the most prone to storm surges. The fertile Delta areas of
the Godavari and the Krishna rivers, which contribute substantially to the state's economic
prosperity, face flood and drainage problems, and more so in the aftermath of cyclones.
4.     More than sixty cyclones have affected AP this century. The incidence of cyclones
seems to have increased in the past decades, to the extent that severe cyclones have become a
common event occurring every two to three years, repeatedly and severely affecting the state's
economy while challenging its financial and institutional resources.3 Almost 29 million people
are vulnerable to cyclones and their effects in Coastal AP, 3.3 million of whom belong to
communities located within five km of the seashore. The deadliest cyclone in the last twenty
years took place in November 1977 killing about 10,000 people. More recently, the May 1990
cyclone, with a death toll close to 1,000 people, caused about US$1.25 billion in damage in ten
districts, including the entire coast. Between 1977 and 1992, about 13,000 lives and 338,000
cattle were lost due to cyclones and floods, and nearly 3.3 million houses damaged.4
5.     May cyclones are relatively rare in the region, and only about 13 have affected AP in this
month this century. However, when they badly hit the Delta areas, as it happened in 1979 in the
Krishna district - where 80 percent of the casualties occurred - the population in danger may be
higher than usual. May is rice harvesting season, and a good number of itinerant laborers come
to the delta from less fertile areas of AP in search of work. Since they lack awareness of the
area's most prevalent hazards, this migrant population is more vulnerable than the permanent
delta residents. Similarly, entire families have come to the delta districts to engage in activities
2   Naidu, B.R. 1989. Economic Consequences of 1977 Cyclone in Andhra Pradesh. Tiraputi, AP: Sri Venkateswara
University.
3   Ibid.
4   Center for Disaster Management Studies. 1994. Planningfor Alanagement and Mitigation of Cyclone and Flood
Disasters in Andhra Pradesh. Hyderabad, AP: National InstitUitC of Rural Dcvelopmcnt.



3
related to shrimp farming, which has taken off recently in the area. They are involved in the
collection of fingerlings, living for several months a year in makeshift shelters along the
marshes. The warnings may not reach them on time, and even when they do, their inexperience
renders them highly vulnerable.
6.     The Godavari and the Krishna rivers have well-defined stable courses, and their natural
and man-made banks have usually been capable of carrying flood discharges, with the exception
of their delta areas. Traditionally, the flood problem in AP had been confined to the spilling of
smaller rivers and the submersion of marginal areas surrounding Kolleru lake. However, the
drainage problem in the delta zones of the coastal districts has worsened, thereby multiplying the
destructive potential of cyclones and increasing flood hazards. Moreover, when a storm surge
develops, as it was the case during the severe November 1977, May 1990 and November 1996
cyclones, threats to humans and property multiply as the sea water may inundate coastal areas
which are already being subjected to torrential rains. Finally, a critical additional factor affecting
the flood management and the irrigation systems is the lack of maintenance. On several
occasions, such as the May 1979 cyclone, most of the deaths were occasioned by breaches to the
chains of tanks and canals, and over-flooding due in part to the choking of drains by silting and
growth of weeds.
VULNERABILITY FACTORS
7.     Several factors have combined to compound natural disaster vulnerability in AP: (i) the
fact that over 50 percent of cyclones in the region turn into severe storms which often come
accompanied by storm surges; (ii) the low-lying lands that prevail along most of the Indian
eastern shore, particularly in the deltas, are subject to widespread flooding and deep inland sea
water incursion that even a few meters high storm surge can create; (iii) limited capacity for
disaster management and integrated planning and (iv) high concentrations of population,
infrastructure and economic activities along the shoreline.
8.     Simultaneously, flood hazards in the delta areas of the state have been further
exacerbated by: (i) geomorphologic factors such as soil characteristics in the Krishna delta which
makes the area poor for the infiltration of flood waters; (ii) interference with the natural delta
system, for example the construction of canals, channels, drains, etc., that cut across the parallel
to subparallel beach ridges, which has changed the area's land cover enormously; and related to
the latter, (iii) lack of maintenance of infrastructure and key elements, i.e., drains, embankments,
etc. of the flood pTotection and irrigation systems (as it was made evident during the 1996
disasters); and (iv) the lack of coastal zone and delta management. In the absence of such a
program, mangroves, which naturally mitigate against storm surges and high winds, are being
converted into aquaculture ponds or depleted for fuel wood. Shrimp farming, for instance, has
been intensifying in the region in recent years, without close monitoring of its environmental
impacts. Over-development and denuding of coastal zones of their protective vegetation belts
have resulted in increased vulnerability, particularly to storm surges, which are perhaps the most
devastating cyclonic-related hazard as they usually account for the majority of casualties and
property losses. Experts agree that it was the disappearance of mangrove swamps coupled with
significant gaps in the tree shelter belts along the coast that allowed the storm surge during the
1990 May cyclone to reach up to 20 km inland.



4
DISASTER MANAGEMENT RECORD
9.     Cyclone disaster management normally includes storm prediction and tracking,
preparedness, prevention, impact assessment and response measures. While the GOAP has
demonstrated a commitment to addressing short-term relief issues, they are less experienced with
long-term issues involving mitigation and recovery. A relatively efficient warning system, which
is one of the essential measures of cyclone disaster preparedness, has been established in India.
Given the existing detection, tracking and forecasting capabilities, it is highly unlikely today that
the formation of a cyclone in the Bay of Bengal or the Arabian Sea would go undetected.
Presently, cyclones in these regions are detected and tracked through conventional observations,
using ten cyclone detection radars with 400 km range and various satellites. Warnings are
provided through different cyclone warning centers and coordination centers strategically located
throughout the national territory. Additionally, the India Meteorological Department has
installed a satellite-based disaster warning system (DWS), with receiving stations at the offices
of Collectors and the Police.
10.   In 1971 the Cyclone Distress Mitigation Committee of Andhra Pradesh, organized under
the advice of the central government a few years earlier, produced a report on the ways to
improve disaster management in the state. Until 1980s the report's recommendations were not
incorporated into policy. The massive death toll that occurred in the 1977 motivated authorities
at the central and state level to adopt a more active stance regarding disaster preparedness. By
1981, AP has finalized its first Cyclone Contingency Plan. The Relief Department has developed
manuals, coordination procedures and training programs which have improved the effectiveness
of these types of actions, as made evident by the dramatic reduction in fatalities during the most
recent cyclones.
11.    As the experience of AP helps illustrate, cyclones can be an obstacle to economic and
social development. The fact that these types of disasters repeatedly affect certain areas of the
state, thereby making them even more vulnerable, makes it imperative to develop and implement
a comprehensive disaster management program that can reach district and subdistrict levels
effectively. For example, many of the districts affected by the most recent disaster had suffered
the ravages of the November 1977 and May 1990 cyclones, the landfalls of which are less than
50 km apart. Vulnerability to cyclones has also increased due to rapid development along the AP
coastline. Effective steps to minimize damage and losses are slow in implementation, while
some of the thriving economic activities may be developing on highly exposed sites. In this
respect, some Indian experts have indicated that the cropping pattern in Coastal AP should be
modified to take into account cyclone occurrence, and that poultry farming may be totally
unsuitable in the vulnerable areas.5
12.   In their approach to natural hazards GOAP has been focusing on saving human lives and
on restoring infrastructure as soon as possible. However justifiable this approach is, it has tended
to overshadow any concerted effort in long-term disaster mitigation. The relief-focused disaster
management policy has created amongst the population a "disaster-relief' syndrome which can
hardly be maintained today: it is increasingly becoming difficult for the state government to
sustain these frequent expenditures.
See for example S.B. Synghal. 1992. "Managing Cyclones Emergencies (Andhra - A Case Study)" in World
Congress on Natural Hazard Reduction, New Delhi, Jan. 10-1 4, 1992. Pp. 245-255,



5
13.    Some neighboring states have attempted to develop more comprehensive cyclone
disaster management schemes. Tamil Nadu, for instance, formulated an "Anti-Disaster Plan,"
which includes vulnerability analysis, risk mapping, zoning and building regulation, design and
construction of anti-cyclone community shelters and cyclone-resistant core units for huts, as well
as programs for improved warning systems. Within AP itself, there are a fair number of institutes
and centers committed to the study of disasters, and the development of disaster mitigation
strategies. These resources which can act as repository of and conduit for information, remain
largely untapped. The development history of the irrigation system in the Godavari delta,
triggered by the watershed management efforts led by Sir Arthur Cotton in the mid- 19th century,
already offers an example of the extent to which foresight and investing for the future may help
in protecting and improving the lives of those living in disaster-prone areas.
PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT
14.    After the May 1990 cyclone, the Bank approved the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone
Emergency Reconstruction Project (CERP), consisting of Cr. 2179-IN, Loan 3260-IN, and Cr.
1665-IN reallocation, totaling US$265 million (the estimated cost of the total project was
US$380 million). In addition to supporting reconstruction operations in the affected districts,
Bank assistance was also intended for the development of a Delta Plan to modernize water
management in the Krishna-Godavari delta and in the coastal area. The CERP closed as planned
in March 1993, after having fully disbursed the allocated funds. Infrastructure restoration was
successfully completed, incorporating higher design and construction standards. The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR # 14662) commented favorably on the project's
reconstruction component. However, it expressed concern regarding the long-term sustainability
of the CERP mitigation objectives, since (i) financial allocations for maintenance of project
works, particularly irrigation and drainage infrastructure, continued to be insufficient; and (ii) the
technical studies for the delta and other coastal areas, essential for establishment of integrated
planning schemes in AP's most vulnerable areas, were not completed. As the ICR concluded,
"the continuing inadequacy of maintenance funding for existing works threatens their
sustainability, and the failure to identify coordinated follow-up programs for development,
protection and mitigation in the project area means that a high risk of future disasters continues
to exist" (p. vi). According to the ICR, the original project design was modified during
implementation, with substantial increases in the physical targets for irrigation and drainage,
roads and bridges, municipal services and electricity components. This change was possible
because of the savings in local currency and the reallocations from the earmarkings for the slow
disbursing components such as the funds set aside for the delta management studies.
15.    The ICR's favorable report on the reconstruction of infrastructure was corroborated
during the November 1996 cyclone. Given higher design standards, the roads constructed under
the CERP withstood the ravages of this storm with little damage. Similarly, cyclone shelters
erected under the project were in good condition and were used extensively during the
emergency period. By contrast, emergency shelters built in the aftermath of the November 1977
cyclone were in a poor state of repair. The GOAP has not continued construction of additional
improved infrastructure, including investments into tree shelter belts, nor undertaken programs
for hazard reduction after the completion of the CERP, as was agreed by the ICR mission in
1994.



6
THE NOVEMBER, 1996, CYCLONE DISASTER
16.    The state experienced a series of heavy rains, floods and smaller intensity cyclones
between June and November 1996. Particularly damaging events occurred between June 12 and
17, August 25 and September 9, and throughout October. Almost all the Coastal and
Rayalaseema regions, as well as a few districts in Telengana suffered human losses and damage
to their infrastructure and economic assets. The four districts comprising Rayalaseema, along
with East and West Godavari and Prakasam in Coastal AP, and Khammam and Warangal in
Telengana, were especially hard hit by these events. The affected communities were in an early
stage of recovery when the most recent cyclone hit AP during the evening of November 6,
reaching wind speeds between 200 to 250 kmh and giving way to a storm surge of up to 2.2
meters. It was estimated that 1,057 people died in the cyclone, which brings the total number of
lives lost in disasters between June and December to 1,689 . As the cyclone entered the mainland
south of the port of Kakinada, it left a track of about 15 km wide, seriously affecting coastal and
riverine areas in East and West Godavari, and also causing some damage in the adjoining
Krishna and Khammam districts. The total damage caused by disasters between June and
December, including the latest cyclone, is estimated at over US$2 billion, with the cyclone alone
exceeding US$1.5 billion. These losses stem from the substantial damage to infrastructure (such
as irrigation, roads and bridges), public buildings, agricultural and cash crops, animal husbandry,
fisheries, and housing. Major losses occurred in the agriculture sector, specifically coconut,
mango, cashew, banana, and other horticulture crops, as well as paddy, sugar cane, tobacco and
cotton. Damage to coconut production in the central delta in East Godavari alone was estimated
at Rs3O billion (US$850 million). Most of the 600,000 housing units lost were located in this
same district. About 1,300 kms of roads were damaged, including 210 kms of the National
Highway 5, which connects East and West Godavari with Calcutta and Madras. The energy
sector was also impacted since about 40 of the 220 KV and 15 of the 132 KV line towers either
collapsed or were damaged. As a result, seventeen substations were out of service. The overall
impact of the latest cyclone on the state's economy was significant, especially considering that
its finances were already precarious following the loss of revenue due to the 1994 introduction of
subsidized rice prices, and the prohibition of liquor sales.
PRE-CYCLONE ACTIONS AND DISASTER RELIEF
17.    Although wind speeds were the highest experienced in recent history, loss of life was
relatively low, which indicates that the response mechanism has become more effective. With
the warning system available, it is possible to alert some people three to five days in advance.
During the latest cyclone, warnings were timely issued and in the most affected districts about
200,000 people were evacuated and 800 relief camps established. Search and rescue were led by
the Army, the Navy and the Air Force authorities, who helped the marooned fishermen and
villagers reach higher grounds and also recovered the bodies of the dead. However, many of
those who lost their lives, mostly fishermen who remained at sea, did not heed the warnings.
18.    Between June and December 1996, the GOAP allocated about Rs2 billion (US$57
million) for immediate relief and rehabilitation in the cyclone and flood affected areas. In
response to the November 6 cyclone, revenue staff was deputed to deal with the rehabilitation
efforts as early as November 9. Few families needed to stay long in the cyclone shelters, as they
quickly reconstructed their thatch houses with financial assistance from the government. The
GOAP also called for the donations to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister 's Cyclone Relief
Fund, 1996, and requested for outside help to deal with the disaster. The use of ongoing,
centrally-sponsored programs was requested to help in the recovery, such as the Indira Awaas



7
Yojana for the reconstruction activities. The World Bank was also approached with a request for
assistance. International and national non-governmental organizations (NGOs) started their field
operations soon after the disaster, committing to the relief so far about US$0.5 million. The
restoration of essential services such as electrical power supply or the clearance of major
thoroughfares was done promptly, but according to the old low design standards. The GOAP
responded well to the emergency, made an effort to coordinate relief assistance by NGOs and
other parties, and disseminated disaster information on the Internet.
NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
19.    The warning system - which encompasses a wide variety of communications from the
most traditional to the most modern - still has several weak links that can fail under severe
weather conditions. Some of the tracking equipment (e.g., radar) requires upgrading and state-of-
the-art software for more accurate prediction of the cyclone's landfall is needed. The capacity for
reliable high wind speed measurement (in excess of 100 km per hour) is lacking. A fundamental
element missing in the tracking system in India is a reconnaissance aircraft facility that can
provide valuable information on the location of the cyclone center, as well as details on its
intensity and the spatial distribution of winds. Without an access to meteorological observations
in the upper air in the field of a cyclone at open sea, forecasting, its tracking for 24-36 hours in
advance and the location of landfall are likely to be insufficiently reliable, especially in view of
cyclones frequent change of course. As exact as possible location of the cyclone landfall is
crucial, given that this is the place around which maximum damage would be experienced and
where pre- and post-disaster management measures would be most needed. Accuracy is also
required to avoid unnecessarily alarming and evacuating the population, which may further
worsen the problems that usually exist with the public's perception and understanding of cyclone
threat. Evacuation is a costly and difficult decision, and frequent and inaccurate warnings tend
to create the "cry-wolf' syndrome, whereby people do not take warnings seriously.
20.    Key aspects of long-term disaster mitigation continue to demand urgent attention in the
state. This is revealed by the fact that as the death toll of recent cyclones has diminished
considerably, damage to infrastructure and other assets has continued to increase.
Correspondingly, statistical records for AP indicate that economic losses associated with
cyclones have been growing since the late 1 960s. The present strategies for development of
cyclone-prone areas are carried out mostly on an ad hoc basis. Planning at the state level does
not yet incorporate disaster prevention measures in an integrated manner. The incorporation of a
strategy for disaster mitigation within an integrated development framework in the high risk area
would have to bring together the decisions and investment activities of many departments, such
as agriculture, irrigation, forestry, roads and buildings, and so forth. Traditionally, however, the
barrier of compartmentalization has made it difficult to find the common ground required for the
governmental and managerial innovations needed to bring such an approach to fruition. As a
result, promotion of socio-economic development and restoration of lost assets have rarely been
accompanied by prevention/mitigation of future disaster impacts. In terms of restoration of
infrastructure, post-cyclone recovery efforts in AP have been successful. In the absence of a
comprehensive and integrated development plan, however, many of the programs and
components included in the recovery efforts have been implemented without a clear
understanding of their interrelationships and without identifying areas of possible conflicts. In
addition, as the recent cyclone made evident, lack of maintenance due to inadequate maintenance
budgets, along with inappropriate design criteria and construction standards used in the high risk



8
areas, continue to be a central factor influencing the high vulnerability of infrastructure in coastal
AP.
21.    The experience of recent emergency responses and recovery efforts and the lessons
learned from the implementation of the CERP, indicate the need to address the following key
priority issues in order to bring together disaster management and development planning
activities in the areas vulnerable to cyclones and related hazards in AP: (i) the formulation and
implementation of long-term hazard reduction and mitigation measures as an essential part of the
strategy for dealing with the recurring disasters in an affordable and efficient manner; (ii) the
carrying out of coastal and delta management, watershed management and flood forecasting
studies to develop mitigation strategies (as originally required under the CERP); (iii) the
involvement of vulnerable communities in the design and implementation of hazard mitigation
prograns, and the management and maintenance of hazard reduction structures; (iv) integrated
actions and initiatives that have a bearing on the management of the coastal areas and the
upstream watersheds; (v) improved design criteria and construction practices in the high risk
areas; (vi) community planning of integrated infrastructure restoration through prioritization at
the District level rather than by the sector Departments; and (vii) adequate operation and
maintenance budget appropriations to foster sustainable mitigation activities (infrastructure
damage in the 1996 disasters have occurred primarily due to the poor state of repair of facilities).
JANMABHOOMI - A VEHICLE FOR COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION
22.   In the context of an initiative to increase people's self-reliance and ownership of
essential community assets, GOAP has launched in 1995 the Janmabhoomi program (see
Attachment 1 1), the purpose of which is to encourage all communities in the state to take an
active role in the development activities. Janmabhoomi is a three-pronged program, consisting of
Prajala Vaddaku Paalana (or "the government at the doorstep of the people"), where
government officials hold "town hall meetings" in villages and neighborhoods to identify
community needs and offer assistance in attaining them. In micro planning the residents are
acquainted with the government's programs and assisted in the preparation of their action plans
for the following years. Sramadanam (or "community works") is the central activity of the
program, as it involves direct community contribution in labor and/or money towards repairs,
maintenance and/or construction of community assets. This partnership between the government
and the people, based on the "matching grant" principle, has to date generated more than 400,000
Sramadanam works (valued at about US$13 million) and involved about 2,500,000 people. The
GOAP has volunteered to expand this movement to include community-based hazard reduction
activities. International experience indicates that true natural hazard vulnerability reduction
occurs only if the government and the people jointly take appropriate action to minimize the
risks of future losses. This is especially true in regions such as Andhra Pradesh where the
dominant hazard (cyclone) has high frequency and where enhancement of quality of
construction, operation and maintenance are crucial for loss reduction.



9
Section B: BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
23.   In view of the recurrence and frequency of cyclone and flood disasters, assisting the
GOAP to mainstream hazard reduction planning becomes a prerequisite for sustainability of
physical investments. The rationale for Bank involvement is therefore: (a) the Bank's criteria for
providing emergency recovery assistance (OP 8.50), specifically (i) the frequency of recurring
emergencies (such as floods and cyclones), and (ii) the prospects for reducing hazards from
similar natural disasters in the future; (b) the findings of the ICR for the previous Andhra
Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project, where the sustainability of infrastructure
investments was questioned because of the project's failure to address long-term mitigation
measures; and (c) the benefits of long-term disaster management versus the costs of repeated
short-term post-disaster reconstruction.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
24.    The project objectives are (i) to assist the GOAP in preparing and implementing long-
term cyclone and flood hazard management in high risk areas with enhanced community
involvement, (ii) enhance the GOIs cyclone early warning capacity; and (iii) to restore lost
public infrastructure by incorporating improved design criteria, cyclone- and flood-resistant
siting, construction and quality control measures, so that such infrastructure will withstand the
intensities of future events.
25.    The proposed project sets out to ensure that mitigation is given its proper place in
reconstruction activities (short and medium term investment objectives) and the long-term
development planning of vulnerable areas. The acute need for immediate repair and
reconstruction of critical infrastructure would be addressed adequately. Building upon the
accomplishments of the CERP, every effort would be made to overcome its shortcomings with
regard to the sustainability of mitigation efforts and deficits in maintenance funds. All
reconstruction assistance would thus be conditioned upon the firm commitment of the GOAP to
establish permanent and effective disaster management mechanisms at the state, district and
local level.
RECOVERY STRATEGY
26.   In view of the exorbitant economic and social costs of recurring disasters such as the
latest AP cyclone, the proposed project adopts long-term disaster management as the guiding
principle of recovery, in order to avoid related damage to restored assets in future disasters.
Disaster management mitigates against three types of repeated disaster losses: (i) direct losses
(capital stock and inventories), (ii) indirect losses (lost income and productive capacity) and (iii)
secondary losses (decreases in economic growth and development). This model is especially
forceful in the context of Bank's agenda of poverty alleviation and sustainability of investments
in countries exposed to recurring natural hazards (such as cyclones). Therefore, the recovery
strategy for the proposed project would be based on the premise that any future investment in the
coastal cyclone-and flood-prone regions of AP is non-sustainable in the absence of
comprehensive cyclone and flood management. The GOAP has already prepared and will



10
publish shortly a policy paper outlining its framework and approach to long-term hazard
reduction in Andhra Pradesh.
27.    The strategy for Bank assistance would focus on (i) hazard reduction through cyclone
forecasting, in addition to flood, watershed, coastal and storm surge management; (ii)
sustainability through, inter alia, close attention to operation and maintenance (O&M) needs,
alternatives for community management of assets, and the establishment of an adequate
institutional framework for disaster management; (iii) coordinated recovery and mitigation
response through restoration of damaged infrastructure, and integrated planning at the district
and/or watershed levels, with special attention to inter-sectoral (i.e., inter-departmental) issues;
and (iv) community involvement to ensure ownership of programs and maintenance of assets.



11
Section C: PROJECT DESCRIPIMON
PROJECT COMPONENTS
28.   The proposed project, estimated to cost about US$220 million, would finance (a) hazard
management program (comprising 22.1 percent of total project cost including the GOI
component of 7.2 percent); (b) restoration of damaged public infrastructure (comprising 72.1
percent of total project cost); and (c) technical assistance for project implementation and
management, and financing for incremental operating costs on a declining scale. Total costs are
indicated for each component, in parentheses, in the following paragraphs, which include base
cost, design and supervision, and physical and price contingencies.
29.   L.     HAZARD MANAGEMENTPROGRAM. Given the serious risk of loss of life and
property, it is of paramount importance to establish a program that can promote and coordinate
prevention, mitigation and preparedness activities in AP, and establish the linkages between
these activities and development planning of the most vulnerable areas. The program would need
to encompass a set of inter-related components that would facilitate (i) risk assessments and
determination of vulnerability levels; (ii) enhancement of state, district and local institutional
capacity to prevent and mitigate natural hazards; and (iii) acquisition of tools and setting up of
programs for better disaster preparedness.
30.   Under this project, the selected prevention, mitigation and preparedness activities to be
financed are: (a) By GOAP: comprehensive cyclone and flood management studies, leading to
action plans, institutional and implementation framework; hazard mapping; communications and
information technology links to facilitate community involvement; and setting up of a
Vulnerability Reduction Fund; and (b) By GOI: enhancement of the India Meteorological
Department's early cyclone warning capacity on the East coast of India.
(a)    GOAP Activities (15 percent of project cost):
(i)    Cyclone and Flood Management Studies (Total cost Rs592.8 million;
US$16.3 million equivalent) This sub-component includes carrying out
of five key studies or activities on long-term hazard reduction,
developing action plans, setting up of adequate institutional
arrangements, and the development of an implementation framework.
These studies/activities include: (i) coastal management including
rainfall, wind and storm surge modeling, (ii) delta and watershed
management including water management and flood modeling, (iii)
cyclone warning, communication and response, awareness raising,
education and community involvement in hazard reduction activities,
(iv) development of enhanced design criteria and construction standards
for use in high risk zones, (v) hazard mapping (derived from coastal
mapping with 0.5 meter contours), (vi) provision of VHF
communications, computers and other equipment (according to a
feasibility study to be completed by May 31, 1997) to the taluka and
mandal level to enhance the community involvement. The modeling
studies will require data on floods, rainfall, wind speeds, and so forth.
Such data are available from agencies such as the IMD, Central Water
Commission and the state Irrigation Department. It has been agreed that



12
it will be the obligation of the GOAP to secure and supply the
information to the consultants, no later than one month after the
commencement of the relevant study (at the Inception Report stage).
Following public participation and debate, the studies would result in the
development and enforcement of planning regulations for design and
construction of infrastructure to withstand expected cyclone and flood;
integrated coastal zone planning and management, including delta and
flood control structure management; preparedness, emergency response,
and mitigation and recovery planning; and the mobilization of
communities to undertake the planning and implementation of hazard
reduction activities integrated into the developmental activities of the
districts, talukas and mandals; and the provision of improved
communications and information technology in the mandals of the State,
including training for relevant staff in the use and applications of the
improved communications, facsimile and computer facilities. Major
civil works for long-term hazard mitigation, however, would not be
financed under the project. They would be prepared in detail and would
be available for financing by the GOAP or interested financiers as free-
standing projects.
(ii)    Coastal Mapping. (Total cost Rs400.1 million; US$11 million
equivalent). Completion of the topographic mapping, commenced under
the CERP, of AP's coastline to 0.5 meter contours, and bathymetric
mapping of the near shore areas, would be procured to facilitate
preparation of storm surge analysis, hazard zone mapping, and planning
of mitigation activities. Base maps required for developing the hazard
maps are available only from GOI agencies, such as the National
Remote Sensing Agency, Department of Ocean Development, Survey of
India and the Geological Survey of India. Mapping would be done by
one or more of the above agencies or other contractors.
(iii)   Vulnerability Reduction Fund (Total cost Rs206.4 million; US$5.7
million equivalent) shall be created by the GOAP as a trust fund for
hazard reduction activities by affected communities. The GOAP shall
formulate VRF Charter and define its organization, management and
operating procedures in agreement with the Bank, prior to July 1, 1997.
The original endowment of at least US$5 million equivalent shall be
provided by GOAP no later than October 1, 1997. Additionally, the
GOAP shall make three more contributions to the fund, each amounting
to two percent of annual appropriations for infrastructure restoration
under this project. The additional contributions shall be made by March
31 in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000. The fund shall retain its
endowment in perpetuity, investing it in accordance with resource
management principles of the VRF Charter. Only the investment
proceeds, i.e., the income generated, shall be used as matching financing
for hazard reduction activities (see Attachment 4).
This Fund would be administered by a board of trustees outside of
government control. The Board will manage the investments through a
fund manager in accordance with broad guidelines set by GOAP. The



13
Disaster Management Unit will manage the disbursement of funds to
communities through the District Disaster Management Committees
(DDMC), in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. The
DDMCs will disburse monies to communities on a matching basis, for
works of not more than Rs500,000 value each. The DDMCs will report
monthly to the DMU, on their operations. A bi-annual review of
operations by all the DDMCs will be carried out by the DMU.
Disbursement of matching financing in excess of Rs500,O00 would
require prior approval of the DMU. The maximum amount of matching
financing from the Fund will be limited to Rsl,000,000 for each work.
The DDMCs would manage and administer the funds approved by the
Board, develop vulnerability reduction strategies, and mobilize
enhanced community involvement. Works amenable for community
works include, inter alia, drain and canal clearing, tank desilting,
watershed development, reforestation, desilting, clearing sand casting,
encouragement of diversified livelihood strategies, relocation of
vulnerable populations, and restoration of livelihoods. Access to the
Fund will be based on criteria to be agreed with the Bank. Works
financed out of the Fund would receive a 50 percent matching grant or
loan.
(b)    GOI Indian Meteorology Department Activity (7.2 percent of project cost):
(i)    Enhancement of Early Warning Systems (Total cost Rs571.4 million;
US$15.7 million equivalent). The India Meteorological Department will
upgrade six radar facilities on the East coast of India, no later than
December 31,1999. Under this project, a portion of the equipment
requirements, including three Doppler radar systems, ten high capacity
wind speed recorders and 100 cyclone warning dissemination centers,
would be financed to enhance the early cyclone warning capacity of the
IMD. Bids will be invited for the three Doppler radar facilities no later
than June 1, 1998. The IMD will finance the three remaining radar
facilities with its own funds. The IMD has bids in hand for two Doppler
radar systems, for which the orders will be placed no later than October
1, 1997. One other Doppler radar facility being developed by the Indian
Space Research Organization will also be deployed no later than
December 31, 1999. The Doppler radars would provide valuable
information on the velocity structure of tropical cyclones which is
currently not available and would improve cyclone tracking. The
Doppler radar capacity would become operational at the six radar sites at
Calcutta, Paradip, Visakhapatnam, Machilipatnam, Madras, Karaikal.
Training of technical IMD staff is also included as a crucial instrument
for building the scientific and technical skills of IMD's operational
personnel working in the cyclone warning system. IMD technicians and
scientists will receive training in India and abroad, according to a
training plan agreed with the Bank.
31.   II     RESTORATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE (72.1 percent of project cost) This
component includes the following activities:



14
(a)    Electric Power Facilities (Total cost Rs1228.4 million; US$33.7 million
equivalent). The component will assist the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity
Board (APSEB) to complete the repair, upgrade and strengthen the network in
order to mitigate against similar calamities in the future. The component
includes: strengthening of existing 132 KV and 220 KV transmission lines to
withstand cyclonic winds and floods experienced in 1996; construction of new
132 KV and 220 KV transmission lines and substations to improve the reliability
of supply; provision of standby capacity and augmenting total supply;
construction of new 33 KV lines with 12.5 meter spun concrete poles to provide
alternate feed to those 132 KV and 33 KV substations that do not have such
facility; construction of new 11 KV lines with 9.0 meter spun concrete poles to
provide each village a reliable feeder to supply essential loads such as pump
houses, and hospitals; and provision of additional communications facilities to
reduce reliance on PLCC facilities which become unavailable during power
failures. APSEB will undertake a review of design and construction standards to
adopt improved criteria to suit varying hazard vulnerability of the different
districts. All new 33 KV and 11 KV lines will be routed along road sides to
provide easier access for repairs during emergencies. A detailed description of
the component is provided in Attachment 5.
(b)   Irrigation Drains and Flood Banks. (Total cost Rs1397.6 million; US$38.4
million equivalent). The component would include: (a) drainage works
comprising the completion of improvements to minor drains in the six delta
districts where the major and medium drains were completed during CERP, so
that drainage of the entire valley and sub-valley is completed under this project;
rehabilitation of eight major and 23 medium drains in the delta districts to
improve their capacity; replacement of fourteen masonry structures across main
drains including three outfall structures at the junction of main drains with the
Godavari river for effective functioning of the drainage system; and (b) flood
embankment works, which would comprise the repair and reconstruction of
damaged and other vulnerable flood embankments in the districts of East and
West Godavari (Pip, the Gautmi Right and Left banks), Khammam
(Bhadrachalam) and Warangal (Ramannagudem). New flood banks that involve
land acquisition will not be financed under the project. See Attachment 6 for
further details on Irrigation and Drainage.
The improvement of the drainage network will be done to Indian Standard
Guidelines (IS Code 8835 of 1978) and criteria agreed and adopted for drainage
works under the CERP, based on a maximum three day rainfall of 387
millimeters, with a return period of 25 years. The repair and strengthening of the
existing flood embankments in Pip, the Gautmi Right and Left banks will be
done to Indian Standard for River Embankments (IS Code 12094 of 1978) and
design criteria for flood protection embankment sections as prescribed by the
Government of India's Central Water Commission. Implementation of the flood
embankments on the Godavari would commence following further technical
studies to assess and quantify the effect on the Right bank of the Godavari, its
effectiveness and suitability in the context of the overall action plan for hazard
reduction planning, and Bank's prior approval. If the construction involves land
acquisition and resettlement of people, the construction will not be undertaken.



15
(c)    State Roads and Bridges. (Total cost Rs1,859.7 million; US$51.1 million
equivalent). The roads and bridges component comprises both short-term
recovery and long-term mitigation. Short-term restoration of damaged roads
would be done through the repair of damaged roads by raising submerged
sections, building protective walls, revetments for vulnerable sections and
reconstruction of damaged strategic bridges. Long-term mitigation would be
addressed through construction of new bridges to connect areas that were totally
cut off during the cyclone periods, replacing frequently submerged causeways
with high level bridges, raising of embankments, increasing of waterways,
construction of additional culverts and drains to improve cross drainage and
strengthening foundations and superstructures. Road widening requiring land
acquisition and resettlement of people will not be undertaken. Where road
widening involves resettlement of people, the relevant stretch will be abandoned
or the widening will not be done.
(d)    The above works comprise: 592 kilometers of roads and 27 bridges having a
total length of 1,834 meters for short-term recovery, and 192 kilometers of roads
and 19 bridges of total length of 2,115 meters for longer-term hazard reduction.
Severely damaged road pavements will be strengthened and widened from 3.5
meters to 5.5 meters, and a few sections will be widened to provide 7.0 meter
two lane consistent with traffic densities. Hydrology and flood data for design
would be coordinated with the Irrigation Department. In built up areas, raising of
road formation, construction of longitudinal drains and concrete pavements
would be provided. State roads will be designed for a ten year life to Indian
Road Congress Standards (37: 1984 and 64: 1990) for pavement design, as
adopted in the last Bank-financed Cyclone Reconstruction Project. Treatment
proposed will take account of present condition and likely deterioration based
on realistic maintenance interventions. Roads that are in a bad state of disrepair
will be built from subgrade to minimize costly bituminous treatment.
Consultants, satisfactory to the Bank will be engaged no later than January 1,
1998, to carry out independent design checks and periodic supervision for
bridges, to assure design and construction quality. If any of the technical studies
reveal that any displacement will be necessary or that any indigenous people will
be affected, GOAP will ensure that that R&R should be undertaken in
accordance with the properly adapted R&R policy which had been agreed for the
proposed AP III Irrigation Project.
(e)    Panchayati Raj Roads and Bridges. (Total cost Rs495.9 million; US$13.6
million equivalent). A network of key rural access and feeder roads that were
damaged, and where villages were completely cut-off during floods would be
upgraded under the project. The works would include strengthening or
reconstruction of causeways and bridges to provide all weather access. No road
widening would be carried out. Any road works that involve land acquisition and
resettlement of people will not be financed under this project. Pavement
construction would comprise waterborne macadam with a 15 mm thick layer of
premix bitumen. (see Attachment 7).
(f)    Public Buildings. (Total cost Rs248.0 million; US$6.8 million equivalent).
Works under this component comprise the repair and reconstruction of collapsed
or damaged public buildings in fifteen districts. The buildings are mainly



16
primary and secondary schools, health centers and hospitals that fall under the
State and the Panchayati Raj administration. Old buildings of stone and mud
mortar construction will be reconstructed in the same locations. Buildings of
more recent construction that primarily suffered roof damage, will be repaired
through the provision of new roofs of improved design. Roof designs will
incorporate measures to reduce lift through the provision of shorter eaves, roof
trusses designed for the appropriate wind loads and suitable anchoring to
withstand a wind speeds of at least 200 kilometers per hour. The allocation of
Rs248.0 million will be distributed equally between the State Roads and
Buildings Department and the Panchayati Raj Department. As school and
hospital buildings are mostly of standard design, repair of reconstruction will be
undertaken following review and certification of the design solutions by an
independent structural engineer, acceptable to the Bank, engaged no later than
July 1, 1997.
(g)    Mitigation Works - Watershed Management (Total cost Rs272.9 million;
US$7.5 million equivalent). This component addresses long-term hazard
reduction in districts that are vulnerable to infrequent cyclones, high winds, flash
floods, and sandcasting. People in these critically water starved districts are
unprepared for the infrequent water-related disasters. Apart from awareness
raising and education to prepare them for dealing with such disasters, this
component would promote community watershed management activities for
hazard reduction. The activities would include: construction of contour bunds,
micro level check dams, percolation tanks and afforestation and pasture
development, comprising construction activities that can be undertaken by the
communities themselves. The method of implementation would follow the same
approach adopted in the AP Forestry Project's joint forest management program,
where communities undertake the work through watershed associations. This
will be part of the vulnerability reduction activities proposed as an integral part
of the Janmabhoomi program The districts included for this component are
Nellore, Anantapur, Chittoor, Karimnagar and Adilabad. Details of the
component are provided in Attachment 8.
(h)    Mitigation Works - Cyclone Shelters (Total cost Rs9O.2 million; US$2.5
million equivalent). The cyclone shelters to be constructed under this project
will have dual use, doubling as school buildings, or any other public use
requested by the community. The project will provide for the construction of
about 140 cyclone shelters in areas that frequently experience cyclones, winds
and storm surge. Though over 800 cyclone shelters have been constructed after
the 1977 and 1990 cyclones, their utility has been limited where they have been
constructed primarily as cyclone shelters. These shelters are not maintained
either by the Panchayats or the community, and they are often in a dilapidated
condition. Following the 1990 cyclone an L-shaped shelter was constructed
which was vastly superior to the circular shelters. Construction of the cyclone
shelters will be carried out following agreement with the Bank on the design and
functions for which it will be put at non-emergency times.
(i)    Mitigation Works- TreeShelterBelts (Total cost Rsl 12.7 million; US$3.1
million equivalent). The project will finance the continuing GOAP program of
shelter belt plantation up to 2 kilometers from the shore line. This would



17
comprise planting of casuarina equestifolia up to 500 meters from the shore line
including harvesting plantations that have reached maturity, mangrove
plantations in the estuarine and backwater areas, and afforestation in areas
beyond 500 meters, with the aim of providing tree crops for the use of the
community. No land acquisition will be required for this activity.
32.   IH    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE to be financed under the project includes incremental
operating costs, consultancies, training and equipment, as detailed below:
(a)    Incremental Operating Costs (2.5 percent of project cost: Total cost Rs202.9
million; US$5.6 million equivalent). Provision has been made in the project
costs to finance incremental operating costs of project management and
implementation, on a sliding scale, starting with 80 percent in the first year, 60
percent in the second year, and 25 percent in the third year. Expenditures eligible
for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the Loan/Credit would include fees and
salaries of staff hired for or fully dedicated to project management and
implementation activities, including the costs of the Disaster Management Unit.
(b)    Consultancies, Training and Equipment (4.5 percent of project cost: Total cost
Rs329.2 million; US$9.0 million equivalent) component (other than Hazard
Management Program) includes:
(i)    Consultancies (other than hazard management studies), which entail
financing of consultants for conducting design checks, quality assurance
and certification, technical audit and other project management
activities.
(ii)    Training includes capacity building of: (i) the GOAP agencies to
respond efficiently to cyclone and flood disasters; public education
campaigns, awareness raising and disaster planning information;
cyclone-resistant low-cost housing design development; training of
population at risk in adequate house construction techniques; facilitating
the involvement of governments, CBOs, NGOs and the public at large in
disaster management planning (community participation, e.g. via
Janmabhoomi); a provision of US$200,000 has been made in the project
for training of GOAP officials in the fields of hazard management (for
DMU, R&B Department and SADA), flood modeling (for the Irrigation
Department), and hazard mapping and other applications (for APSRAC);
and (ii) IMD will provide training for its scientists and technicians in the
fields of modeling and early warning techniques and in the operation of
the early warning facilities, in accordance with a training plan to be
prepared no later than September 1, 1997 (a provision of US$150,000
has been for this purpose). The first overseas training of IMD staff will
commence no later than March 1, 1998.
(iii)   Equipment would be provided for (i) setting up of an extensive VHF
communications network in the flood and cyclone-prone districts, (ii) an
information network for raising awareness and mobilizing people for
hazard reduction activities, (iii) facsimile and computers and associated
software in the mandals of the state, and (iv) vehicles and other office
equipment needs.



18
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
33.    The total estimated project cost is Rs8,007.9 million (US$220 million equivalent)
inclusive of physical and price contingencies, with a foreign exchange component of US$79.5
million. Taxes and duties are estimated at about US$33 million (15 percent of total project
costs). Base costs have been determined on costs estimated at February 1997 prices. Table I -
Summary Project Costs, indicates total component cost inclusive of physical and price
contingencies, in Rupees and US Dollars, and the local and foreign component breakdown.
Detailed project costs, including phasing are given in the Attachment 3.
34.    The Loan/Credit would finance US$150 million (68 percent) of total project cost net of
taxes and duties. The Loan would be US$50 million and the Credit would be SDR 72.1 million
(US$ 100 million equivalent). The GOAP would finance US$66.9 million (30 percent) of project
cost, and GOI, through the budget of IMD, would finance US$3.1 million (2 percent) of project
cost. Parallel financing of about US$30 million has been agreed with NABARD to finance minor
irrigation works and rural roads. The AP State Electricity Board has received a loan of about
US$30 million to finance immediate restoration works of the electricity facilities. No Project
Preparation Facility nor trust funds have been used in project preparation.
Table 1: Sunmmary of Project Cost.
Rupees Million               US$ Million
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
1. Hazard Management Program    844.04   926.66    1770.70   23.18       25.46   48.64
GOAP Activities
(a) Studies and Other Activities  250.00    342.78    592.78    6.87     9.42   16.28
(b) Coastal Mapping              325.70      74.43    400.12    8.94      2.04   10.99
(c) Vulnerability Fund          206.433       0.00    206.43    5.67      0.00    5.67
GOI Activities
(d) Early Warning Systems          61.93    509.45    571.37    1.70     14.00   15.70
II. Infrastructure Restoration  3933.52   1771.54   5705.05  108.02      48.67  156.71
(a) Electric Power Facilities     263.76    964.39   1228.15    7.24     26.50   33.74
(b) Irrigation and Drains        1137.62    259.97   1397.59   32.24      7.14   38.39
(c)StateRoadsandBridges          1513.78    345.92   1859.70   41.57      9.50   51.08
(d) Rural Roads and Bridges       403.68     92.25    495.92   11.09      2.53   13.62
(e) Public Buildings              201.84     46.12    247.96    5.54      1.27    6.81
(f) Mitigation Works              412.84     62.89    475.73   11.34      1.73   13.07
IV. Technical Assistance         337.15    194.98    532.11    9.26       5.36     6.7
(a) Institutional Strengthening   165.13     37.74    202.87    4.54      1.04    5.57
(b) Consultancies, Training and   172.02    157.24    329.24    4.72      4.32    9.04
Equipment
TOTAL PROJCT COSTS:    5114.72   2893.16   8007.89   140.4    79.49  219.96
Note: Costs include design, supervision and management, physical and price contingencies.



19
Section D: HAZARD REDUCTION STUDIES, OTHER CONSULTANCIES, TRAINING
AND EQUIPMENT
35.    A range of relevant baseline studies for the development of useful hazard maps to
delineate hazard zones indicating frequency and intensity of "design" events would be
undertaken by the GOAP, through the proposed Disaster Management Unit (see Section E). The
disaster management function is necessarily multi-hazard oriented, as it has to be designed to
address the set of hazards impacting the whole state, particularly cyclones, floods, storm surges
and droughts. The following studies/activities related to hazard reduction would be carried out
under the proposed project: (i) integrated coastal zone management including wind, rainfall and
storm surge modeling; (ii) delta and watershed management, including flood modeling and water
management; (iii) coastal (topographic and bathymetric) mapping of land and near shore areas to
0.5 meter contours, for preparation of hazard maps; (iv) hazard mapping; (v) development of
enhanced design standards and construction practices in high risk areas; (v) cyclone warning,
communication and response, and awareness raising, education and community involvement in
hazard reduction activities. The results of these studies and associated technical assistance will
address the fundamental issues of hazard exposure of AP and will provide the basis for an
efficient, comprehensive multi-hazard mitigation and response capacity. Accordingly, three
disaster management products will be developed on the basis of these studies: (i) comprehensive
vulnerability assessment; (ii) operational disaster response; and (iii) a statewide disaster
mitigation strategy.
36.   Other project management and implementation related technical assistance to be funded
under the project include: (i) consultancy for quality assurance and certification; (ii) consultancy
for design checks of bridges and periodic supervision; (iii) consultancy for technical audit of
interventions at the taluka and mandal levels; (iv) consultancies for design checks and periodic
supervision of large bridges, and for design of public buildings; (v) consultancy for setting up
Vulnerability Reduction Fund; (vi) specialist consultants for the Disaster Management Unit; (vi)
consultancy for developing cyclone-resistant house designs; (vi) training of functionaries at the
taluka and mandal level; (vii) study tours and workshops for training in hazard management;
(viii) VHF and other communications systems to link up vulnerable villages; (ix) equipment for
upgrading AP Remote Sensing Applications Center; (x) computers, software, and office
equipment for the taluka and mandal centers; and (xi) training, in India and abroad, for IMD's
technicians and scientists in the maintenance of the early warning systems, and in modeling.



20
SecEton EISITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJ1ECT IMPLEMENTATION
POLICY FRAMEWORK
37.    The GOAP has an Emergency Response and Recovery Plan to deal with evacuation and
the immediate aftermath of annual cyclones, wind, storm surge and floods. The plan has been
tested over a number of years, working reasonably well as the reduction in the death toll after the
most recent disasters indicates. Short-term relief operations and recovery activities have also
improved over the years. However, the property and financial loss due to natural disasters
continue to grow, while the GOAP has not sufficient capacity to deal effectively with long term
mitigation issues. As part of the project formulation, the GOAP has prepared a draft policy
framework (to be revised) stating concretely its approach to (i) natural hazard reduction,
including short, medium and long-term measures, as the strategy for dealing with the frequently
occurring disasters; (ii) community involvement, including strategies for peoples' mobilization
to share capital costs and maintenance of community assets, and possible links to existing
community participation schemes such as Janmabhoomi; and (iii) project implementation
arrangements.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
38.   As specified by the Bank's guidelines for emergency recovery assistance, the project
would be implemented over a three year period. The closing date of the Loan/Credit will be July
31, 2000.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT
39.    The lack of long-term hazard management planning and control has led to a number of
environmental problems in the coastal districts. These include: the denudation of forest cover
along the coast due to widespread aquaculture activities; insufficient development control
leading to construction on natural waterways; encroachment on natural water bodies, such as the
Kolleru Lake, near Wijayawada; the siting of infrastructure without consideration of hazard
risks; and the lack of maintenance of infrastructure assets, such as roads and the irrigation canal
and drainage system in the delta areas.
40.    The project is classified as a category B project according to the World Bank
Operational Directive (OD) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, and it does not require a full
environmental assessment. Instead, environmental screening will be undertaken for core
infrastructure, namely, electric power facilities, roads and bridges, irrigation works, and public
buildings. Although the project deals with mitigation of future hazards and restoration of existing
facilities, the extent to which the disaster was precipitated and exacerbated by unsuitable
environmental practices would be taken into account and corrective measures would be built into
restoration of infrastructure. Special provisions would be built into the terms of reference for
consultants engaged for infrastructure restoration, to ensure that environmental screening would
lead to the implementation of mitigation activities. Where consultants are not used for the bulk
of infrastructure restoration, the DMU will ensure that all implementing agencies undertake
environmental screening, according to the terms of reference agreed with the Bank, prior to start
of implementation of each sub-component. If the environmental screening identifies a potentially



21
negative environmental impact, DMU would require that implementing agency undertake
additional studies, using consultants, to prepare a mitigation plan for the consideration of the
DMU. If approved, the implementing agency would carry out the proposed mitigation measures.
In the case of severe negative environmental impacts, the DMU will consult the Department of
Environment and Forests for their advice (see Attachment 17).
41.   Works that involve land acquisition and resettlement of people will not be undertaken in
this project. The GOAP has standard arrangements to deal with the encroachers of objectionable
lands. The arrangements include people voluntarily moving any structures they may have erected
(usually associated with seasonal agricultural activities) while drain cleaning or other repair
works go on, and return to their original locations upon completion of the works. If loss of any
crops is involved, it is compensated. In view of the fact that GOAP has a procedure in place to
deal with such situations and that these procedures are being implemented when necessary, the
Bank review found them satisfactory.
42.   The construction of new flood banks in the delta region will be undertaken only
following model studies including land acquisition assessment, which are yet to begin. If it is
determined that the above or other works involve resettlement of people, such works will not be
financed from the proceeds of the Loan/Credit.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
43.   Institutional arrangements for a comprehensive, long-term disaster management program
in Andhra Pradesh would be developed on three levels: (a) policy: the AP Disaster Mitigation
Council; (b) technical: the AP Disaster Management Unit; and (c) community: District (Taluka
and Mandal) Disaster Management Committee. This framework would be put in place
immediately and operationalized as soon as possible for start of project implementation. The
DMU would also provide a basic structure for implementation of the proposed project and
preparation of the AP hazard management program. The three year project implementation is
envisaged as the period for the development of a fully-fledged state disaster management
program.
(a)    AP Disaster Mitigation Council (APDMC) would be created, with Chief
Minister as the chairman, and will have key ministers and prominent figures
from public life as members. The Council will set the policy agenda for long-
term hazard reduction in the State, conduct periodic reviews and approve long-
term hazard reduction action plans, respond to any new natural disaster in the
state in a manner consistent with the declared policy, and review reports on the
progress in implementation of the action plans. In conformity with his state-wide
Janmabhoomi community participation initiative, Chief Minister can
additionally provide leadership for mobilization of communities to take part in
hazard reduction of elements of infrastructure that have a direct impact on their
economic activities. For example, communal "ownership" of maintenance and
cleaning minor and medium canals and drains (either through self-help or
through the employment of small contractors) lend themselves well to the
community participation concept of the proposed project.
(b)   AP Disaster Management Unit (DMU) would be created in the Department of
Finance and Planning, under the Secretary of Finance as the head, but would be
managed by a full-time Project Director. The Unit would be a permanent body,
and would be responsible for managing the development of the hazard



22
management program initially, in addition to managing and coordinating
implementation of the infrastructure restoration program. The DMU would be
responsible for managing: hazard mapping, development of action plans for
hazard reduction, development of standards for construction, siting and
monitoring, hazard mitigation, damage assessment, inspection and enforcement,
public information and training, and environmental monitoring. The Unit would
have the responsibility for the management of the project, inter-departmental
coordination, management of hazard reduction related consultant studies, and for
the planning and development of long-term hazard reduction action plans for the
state. Initially, the Unit would have a skeletal staff comprising a
communications expert for community outreach activities, a disaster
management expert, a transport engineer, an irrigation engineer and an
environmental specialist. Other specialist experts, such as wind experts will be
retained on an as needed basis. The Unit would be gradually staffed as its
activities expand. DMU will use the services of the Shore Area Development
Authority (SADA) and/or the Environmental Protection Training and Research
Institute (EPTRI) in Hyderabad to assess the potential environmental impacts,
conduct required environmental analyses, and propose any needed
environmental mitigation. All technical and administrative sanctions for civil
works shall contain a note indicating that the required environmental screening
and the resultant environmental mitigation requirements have been addressed
satisfactorily and the cost for these works is included in the proposal. Details on
the environmental screening process with an analytical checklist and
environmental analysis are provided in Attachment 17.
At the end of three years, DMU would become the lead unit for planning and
management of long-term hazard mitigation activities in Andhra Pradesh. The
Unit would use the services of the existing PMU in the Department of Finance
for procurement and disbursement functions and the AP Remote Sensing and
Applications Center for specialized services. It would collaborate with the
Disaster Management Center at the Rural Development Academy in Hyderabad,
Center for Disaster Management, GOI, and agencies in other states where
similar activities are being undertaken, such as YASHADA's Disaster
Management Center in Pune, Maharashtra. All funds for the project activities
would be appropriated under a separate head in the Ministry of Finance and
would be passed on to the respective sector departments for project
implementation according to their needs, and on recommendations of the DMU.
The DMU would undertake programs to mobilize NGO and private sector
support for hazard reduction activities, as well as for special initiatives in
insurance and investment. Hazard reduction action plans would be implemented
by the state sector departments and communities themselves, as described
below. Further details on the DMU are provided in Attachment 10.
(c)    District Disaster Management Committee (DDMC) as well as taluka, mandal
and village level committees, would be organized to institutionalize community
involvement in hazard reduction. DDMC would be chaired by the Collector, and
would include, inter alia, the Joint Collector, the CEO Zilla Parishad, the
APRSAC district representative and the District Public Relations Officer. Sub-
district organization on the mandal and village levels would be structured on a
similar basis, to reflect the importance of public participation and understanding



23
of natural disaster reduction. The DDMCs will be responsible for organizing ant-
monitoring community -based hazard reduction activities, as well as administer
allocations approved from the Vulnerability Reduction fund.
(d)    Community Managed Works in Hazard Reduction. Current cash hand-outs in
response to losses are one-off events that contribute little to enhance community
resilience against future disasters. Simultaneously, the funds available for
maintenance of vital infrastructure have become less adequate, and
responsibility for maintenance of even minor irrigation works has devolved out
of the hands of the primary beneficiaries - the communities for which the
infrastructure has been created in the first place. While it has become
increasingly difficult for the government to cover routine operations and
maintenance (O&M) costs because of budgetary restrictions, the people, for a
variety of reasons, have chosen to surrender their own responsibilities for
maintenance to government agencies. A situation of enhanced dependency has
arisen where the people have come to rely on government for all kinds of
assistance. In the end, local users do not perceive these assets as their own and
do not feel committed to their long-term maintenance - a major source of
increased vulnerability.
The departments responsible for maintaining communal assets have generally
operated in isolation from the public, relying on their own expertise to provide
solutions which citizens are expected to accept with very little questioning.
Projects are undertaken for people rather than with people. To foster sustainable
mitigation processes at the local level, much more that the simple physical
rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure is required. A concerted effort to link
rehabilitation to long term mitigation plans which involve local communities in
more systematic and effective ways is called for under the project's mitigation
objectives. This objective reinforces the current emphases by the State to
increase citizens' self-reliance and involvement in the decisions that affect their
lives directly. It also implies the development of an integrated approach to the
provision of infrastructure which includes all the stakeholders in the elaboration
and development of sustainable options - both public and private, governmental
and non-governmental. Along with coordination of activities at all levels - from
sub-mandal micro-planning to State-wide integrated planning - it is also
necessary to give a more central involvement to citizens and their organizations,
including NGOs, CBOs, and so forth. While it is unlikely that people have the
expertise to execute and maintain large infrastructure investments, they do have
a central role to play in the maintenance of local physical assets.
As part of the long-term mitigation objectives of the project, vulnerability
reduction would become an integral part of community level development
activities in AP. The aim should be to associate the execution of physical works
more closely with the local context in which they are prioritized. The project
will focus on the incorporation of community in the widest sense (CBOs, NGOs.
the private sector) into long-term disaster mitigation planning and to marry such
planning with the on-going developmental activities at State, district and sub-
district levels. The aim would be to enhance local ownership of public assets,
build up expertise and strengthen existing institutions in the pursuit of more
sustainable development.



24
Where repair and maintenance of canals and drains has been deficient, and when
this impacts directly their economic activities, agricultural communities in AP
have shown a willingness to contribute towards the cost of such repairs and
maintenance. Additionally, recent initiatives led by the Chief Minister of AP
have been directed to mobilizing people to undertake various activities in their
communities either on a 100 percent voluntary basis or on community
contributions of up to 50 percent, for which matching funds are provided by the
government. For one of this initiatives, Sramadanam ("community works")
under the Janmabhoomi program (see Attachment  11), Rs2,000 million has been
budgeted for the FY 97/98. Building upon these programs, communities would
be mobilized under the project to carry out hazard reduction activities for
maintenance of infrastructure elements that are basic to their social and
economic activities, and particularly those related to maintenance of minor
drains, as well as watershed and joint forest management. The proceeds of the
Vulnerability Reduction Fund would also be used to finance activities directly
linked to hazard reduction. This would be compatible with the community works
included in Sramadanam, which focuses on collective village and ward cleaning
and general village cleanliness, including cleaning of drains, dealing with water
stagnation, repairs to drinking water sources, garbage disposal and maintenance
of trees.
Works under the project may be carried out either by the communities or sector
departments upon receipt of the beneficiary contribution (of up to 50 percent).
Provision exists for District Collectors to award piece work or work order
contracts for small works, such as minor irrigation drain cleaning, valued at less
than Rs200,000 each contract. This initiative is being used to encourage
community involvement by matching half the cost contributed by the
community. Additionally, GOAP passes on funds, amounting to RsI00,000 at a
time to community cooperatives for activities such as watershed management
and joint forest management under the AP Forestry Project. GOAP would
supervise works done by the community through the respective sector
departments to ensure that sound engineering standards are followed.
(e)    The Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF) shall be created by the GOAP as a
trust fund for hazard reduction activities by affected communities. The GOAP
shall formulate VRF Charter and define its organization, management and
operating procedures in agreement with the Bank, prior to July 1, 1997. The
original endowment of at least US$ 5 million equivalent shall be provided by
GOAP no later than October 1, 1997. Additionally, the GOAP shall make three
more contributions to the fund, each amounting to two percent of annual
appropriations for infrastructure restoration under this project. The additional
contributions shall be made by March 31 in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000. The
fund shall retain its endowment in perpetuity, investing it in accordance with
resource management principles of the VRF Charter. Only the investment
proceeds, i.e., the income generated, shall be used as matching financing for
hazard reduction activities.



25
FLOW OF FUNDS
44.    One hundred percent of the proceeds of the Loan/Credit will be passed on to the
Government of Andhra Pradesh, by the Government of India, on the standard terms of assistance
to the states. The GOAP will appropriate funds for the proposed project to a separate head under
the Department of Finance and Planning, which will pass on the project funds to the spending
departments on the recommendations of the DMU.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
45.   Project Implementing Agencies. The AP Disaster Management Unit will have overall
responsibility for project implementation. It will engage additional specialist assistance to
supervise project implementation, so that there is greater ownership and the Bank inputs to
project supervision could be minimized. The DMU will be responsible for carrying out all hazard
mitigation studies, developing action plans, mobilizing community involvement in hazard
reduction, and developing the institutional and regulatory framework for long-term hazard
reduction. The DMU will also maintain consolidated project accounts, monitor progress and
report to the GOAP and the Bank, as required. Implementation of infrastructure sub-sectors
would be carried out by the respective agencies, namely AP State Electricity Board (APSEB) for
electric power facilities; Irrigation Department for drains and flood banks; Roads and Bridges
Department for State roads and bridges, and State buildings; Panchayati Raj Department for rural
roads, cyclone shelters and PR buildings; the District Rural Development Agency for watershed
management; the AP Forestry Department for tree shelter belts; and the Indian Meteorology
Department for early warning systems. On behalf of the GOAP, the DMU will organize the
preparation of coastal mapping, and subsequently zonal hazard mapping. Apart from the DMU,
which is a new agency, all other agencies are well experienced in their respective activities, and
have the capacity to undertake the works under the project. The infrastructure departments
specifically, have spare capacity due to the downturn in investment activities that have resulted
from the State's fiscal difficulties over the last two to three years.
46.   Project Implementation Plan. The PIP prepared by the GOAP will be further refined to
include all activities including the hazard reduction studies and training. The PIP at present
concentrates on infrastructure components and their procur^-ment plans. The revised PIP would
contain: project management arrangements including financing; implementation plans of each
sector department including the hazard reduction activities conducted by the DMU;
implementation arrangements for the IMD component; training plans for GOAP and IMD staff;
and procurement plans for each activity indicating the type of procurement, details of contract
packages and the scheduling of contracts. Final PIP is expected to be ready by the end of April,
1997.
47.    Enhanced Design Criteria. Convincing evidence exists that all infrastructure that was
constructed to enhanced design standards under the last Cyclone Reconstruction Project was able
to withstand the intensities of cyclones, wind, and floods that occurred during the past year.
Infrastructure repaired or reconstructed under this project will be done to enhanced standards
which will be subject to be review and approval by the Bank. Such enhanced standards are
available for electricity services and roads (see Attachment 12). Higher standards of design
would be developed or adopted for roads and bridges, electric power facilities, irrigation
facilities, public buildings, and emergency shelters. Design criteria proposed to be used in the
repair and reconstruction of infrastructure under the project have been agreed with GOAP.



26
Enhanced design standards to be used for each infrastructure sub-sector would include an
environmental screening process, identifying components requiring environmental analysis and
possible mitigation measures. Design, siting and construction of irrigation structures and flood
banks that are dependent on the findings of the technical studies will be undertaken only after the
above mentioned factors have been confirmed and verified.
48.    Design and Construction Criteria, Quality Assurance and Certification. Reconstruction
of infrastructure would only be done when design features are incorporated to ensure that the
structures can withstand the intensities of expected cyclones and floods. Internationally
experienced quality assurance consultants would be appointed to undertake random supervision
across all sub-sectors to assure design and construction quality and to ensure that works
undertaken meet the project objectives. These consultants would certify that the works have been
constructed to the specified standards. This control effort will not substitute for the normal
superintendence that is normally provided by the implementing agencies, as quality assurance
checks will be done on no more than about 10 to 15 percent of the total works. Simultaneously,
these consultants would assist the GOAP in building their own institutional capacity to enforce
design and construction standards in the long-term.
49.    TechnicalAudit. Substantial effort will be directed towards establishing communication
and technological facilities at the taluka and mandal levels for communities to participate in
hazard reduction activities, awareness raising, education, and micro level planning which will be
fully integrated into everyday community life. These funds have been provided for setting up of
communications, computer hardware and software, and for training of functionaries. The GOAP
has agreed that a technical audit will be carried out every six months to assess the use of
facilities provided, training of functionaries, the delivery of outputs, such village databases,
micro level plans, communities taking over simple infrastructure assets, and communities
contributing to maintenance of infrastructure that have a direct linkage to their economic
activities. The results of the audit will be used at the mid-term review to introduce appropriate
changes to the program. The project would finance the consultants that would undertake this
technical audit.
50.   Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review will be held in December 1998, to assess (i)
whether the project objectives are likely to be achieved; (ii) the commitment and actions of the
GOI towards timely enhancement of the early warning system in the jurisdiction of the Indian
Meteorological Department; (ii) the commitment and actions of the GOAP towards instituting
regulations and enforcement of incentives/disincentives to reduce hazards; (iv) the overall
progress made in the infrastructure restoration program; (v) the robustness of the community
participation programs including the involvement of women; and (vi) the need for any changes
or restructuring of the project.
51.   Performance Indicators. Full list and discussion of project monitoring indicators is
presented in Attachment 14 and it will be used by the implementing agencies for progress
monitoring. A selected list of performance monitoring indicators will be agreed with GOAP and
IMD at the time of project launch. Two types of performance monitoring indicators will be
utilized for monitoring the progress in implementation of the proposed project: (i) program
performance indicators, which would allow to measure progress made toward the fulfillment of
the stated short- medium- and long-term mitigation and recovery objectives, as described for
each of the proposed project components; and (ii) project performance indicators, which would
monitor procurement procedures, contract preparation and approval, and general disbursement
issues.



27
PROCUREMENT
52.   ProcurementManagement. Procurement management will be done through three
instruments: (a) Procurement plan. (b) Fully empowered Committee of Secretaries which has
been created with powers to deal with procurement decisions irrespective of their value. This
Committee will comprise of the Project Director of the DMU, Secretary (Works and Projects,
Department of Finance) and the concerned sector department Secretary. The Committee will
meet as and when necessary, but at least once in ten days, to ensure that decisions on award of
contracts are taken within the period of initial validity (see Attachment 13 for details on powers
and responsibilities of the Committee of Secretaries and Chief Engineers). (c) Chief Engineers,
whose financial threshold for procurement decisions would be raised to allow them to accept
bids of up to 40 percent above cost estimates. The GOAP has issued all the necessary
government orders, prior to negotiations, for the above arrangements. The sector department
Chief Engineers will be responsible for all procurement activities up to the financial powers
prescribed for them. The existing Project Management Unit (PMU) will provide necessary
support to the DMU for procurement administration. Where procurement decisions exceed the
prescribed powers of Chief Engineers, the sector departments will process these matters through
the Project Director, DMU, who will obtain clearance from the Committee of Secretaries.
53.   Procurement Procedures for Works. Procurement of works would be done in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines. The following procedures will be applied: (i) standard
bidding documents approved for use in India, will be used without exception; (ii) due to the
relatively small size and the wide spatial distribution of civil works, all civil works costing more
than US$25,000 equivalent each, and up to an aggregate value of US$101.3 million, will be
procured using national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank; (iii) civil
works contracts costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate value of US$25
million, will be procured using other procedures, including direct contracting, through NGOs or
communities, or on the basis of three price quotations, or under unit rate/piece rate system. Such
works would include: small works of an emergency nature, or small works carried out by
through community contributions or through NGOs or using community labor; (iv) force account
procedures, up to an aggregate value of US$2 million, will be used only in the last resort with the
approval of the Bank.
54.   Procurement Procedures for Materials, Equipment and Vehicles. Contracts for
materials, equipment and vehicles costing more than US$200,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate value of US$ 38 million, will be procured under international competitive bidding
procedures. Contracts for materials, equipment and vehicles, valued less than US$200,000
equivalent each and more than US$25,000 in value each, up to an aggregate value of US$11.1
million, will be procured following the NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. National
shopping procedures will be used for the procurement of equipment, materials and vehicles
costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate value of US$1 million
equivalent.
55.   Procurement of Consultant Services. As arrangements for procurement of consultants
for two studies (i.e., coastal zone management, and delta and watershed management) are well
advanced, and the Bank and GOAP had agreed in December 1996 on the procedures to be used,
all consultant services for these two studies will be procured in accordance with Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency



28
(August 1981). Procurement of all other consultants services will be undertaken according to the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).
Consultant contracts valued at less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each for individuals, or
US$100,000 equivalent each for firms, up to an aggregate value of US$2 million equivalent,
would be procured using sole source procedures. Coastal mapping, estimated to cost not more
than US$ 10 million and available only through the Government of India's agencies (e.g.,
National Remote Sensing Agency, Survey of India, Department of Geological Survey and
Department of Ocean Development) will be procured through sole source procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
56.    Prior Review Requirements. The World Bank's prior review and approval will be
required for bid documents, bid evaluations and award decisions for: works estimated to cost
US$ 300,000 equivalent or more, and contracts for groups of materials, equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or more will be required. Consultant contracts valued
at US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals and all sole source consultancies,
including terms of reference for all consultancies will be subject to prior review.
57.    Estimating of Costs. The use of out of date schedules of rates for preparing cost
estimates has frequently been cited as the reason for delays in contract awards, because of the
need to justify and obtain approvals from higher authorities. As the FY 97/98 schedule of rates
would not be ready until September 1997, the GOAP has instructed all sector departments to
update the FY 96/97 schedule by adding the average of the increase in the rates for the past three
years, for use in preparing cost estimates. In addition, GOAP has agreed to hire consultants to
assist in the streamlining of schedule of rates and procedures for their compilation, to suit current
construction methodologies and labor output, under the proposed AP III Irrigation Project.
GOAP should complete this updating in stages giving priority to the bill items of work taken up
in this Project. The GOAP gave assurances that the updating of the schedule of rates will be
completed in one year.
58.    Procurement Monitoring. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as
follows: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (b)
comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank, by the Borrower, indicating: (i) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (ii) revised timing of procurement
actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for individual
contracts; (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement; and (iv)
a completion report by the Borrower within three months of the loan/credit closing.
59.    To the extent practicable, vehicles required for the project will be hired at rates fixed in
accordance with the GOAP procedures acceptable to the Bank. This item of expenditure will be
eligible for disbursement under incremental operating costs, on a sliding scale.
DISBURSEMENTS
60.   Disbursement Categories and Percentages. The proceeds of the Loan/Credit would be
disbursed against eligible expenditures at the following percentages: 70 percent of expenditures
for civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures for materials, equipment and vehicles, 100
percent of local ex-factory expenditures for materials, equipment and vehicles, 80 percent of
local expenditures for other materials, equipment and vehicles procured locally, and 100 percent
for consultant services and training. Expenditures in respect of incremental operating costs for
project management and implementation will be financed on a sliding scale starting at 80 percent
in the first year, sliding down to 60 percent in the second year and to 25 percent in the third year.



29
Technical assistance funds earmarked for the hazard management studies and coastal mapping
will not be re-allocated for any other purpose, and any unused funds will be canceled. However,
if GOAP receives coastal maps, with 0.5 meter contours, at a lower cost or as a grant, the Bank
may consider re-allocating such funds for other uses.
61.   Retroactive Financing. The GOAP has incurred expenditure for over US$40 million for
infrastructure restoration following the cyclone, some of which could be eligible for
reimbursement from the proceeds of the Loan/Credit. These works have been procured using
national competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Retroactive financing will be
provided for eligible expenditures, of not more than US$ 15 million equivalent, incurred after
November 6, 1996 - the date of the major cyclone.
62.   SpecialAccount. To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account would be
established in US Dollars at the Reserve Bank of India with an initial deposit of US$ 12.5
million, equivalent to not more than four months average projected expenditures, from which all
eligible project expenditures would be disbursed. The Government of India will advance to the
GOAP central assistance every year, for the life of the project and in accordance with the
procedures established between GOI and the states for this purpose. The GOAP will make
similar advances to the implementing agencies promptly after such releases through setting up
letters of credit, release of funds and government orders, in accordance with standard procedures
for financing state expenditure.
63.   Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements against civil works contracts of value less
than US$300,000 equivalent, contracts for materials, equipment and vehicles of value under
US$200,000 equivalent, and consultant contracts valued at less than US$100,000 each, training
and incremental operating costs, would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All
other disbursements will be made against full documentation.
64.   Accounts andAudits. Project accounts would be maintained according to the following
guidelines:
(a)    The project accounts would be maintained under a separate heading and
appropriate sub-headings by each department or agency. The accounts prepared
by each participating department/agency will be consolidated by the DMU to
form project accounts. Each department/agency would submitted to the DMU
required documentation for all non-SOE expenditures, and retain the necessary
documentation for all SOE expenditures, for inspection by the Bank and for
audit.
(b)    The monthly summaries, prepared to support the sub-SOEs, would provide the
basic building block for the project accounts maintained by the DMU with
appropriate cross-referencing to allow the paper trail to be followed. Non-SOE
expenditures would be separately incorporated into the accounts, and copies of
the related documentation will be retained for inspection.
(c)    The project accounts would be summarized on an ongoing basis to show: (i)
actual versus planned expenditure for each quarter and year to date; (ii) how
Bank-financed and GOAP-financed expenditures are finalized by component
and category; (iii) actual versus planned expenditures to date: and (iv) appended
to the project account would be a listing of the Withdrawal Applications for the
period concerned, showing the amounts reimbursed. Unaudited project accounts



30
with this attachment would be submitted by the DMU, as part of the quarterly
report.
(d)    Consolidated project accounts, including SOEs, accompanied by an auditor's
report, will be submitted annually to the World Bank, no later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year.
(e)    The auditor's report, accompanied by a Summary Statement of the Special
Account would be submitted to the World Bank no later than six months after
end of each fiscal year.
65.   Progress Reporting. The DMU will prepare a quarterly progress report indicating
physical and financial progress, in an agreed format, showing the physical and financial progress
of each project component, compared against the agreed plan with an explanation for the reasons
for deviation, and the remedial action proposed or taken. Progress made on achievement of the
agreed performance indicators should be incorporated in the report. The quarterly report will
incorporate the quarterly accounts referred to above. The quarterly report will be submitted to the
World Bank within four weeks after the end of each quarter.



31
Section F: FINANCIAL -ANECONOMIC JI$TMCATION
MAJOR PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
66.   Discussion of economic justification is in Attachment 16.
67.   Project Benefits. The major benefit of the project would be putting in place long-termn
cyclone and flood hazard reduction measures that would reduce the loss of life, damage to
property and impact to productive capacity in future cyclones and floods. In particular, (i) timely
and adequate completion of repair and/or reconstruction of basic infrastructure to higher design
and construction standards would help restore economic activity on a more sustainable basis, and
diminish hardship of the affected population; (ii) prevention of salinity intrusions and storm
surges, along with improvement in watershed management, would lead to more stable
agricultural production and income in the highly vulnerable districts, which would also be
beneficial to AP as a whole considering that this sector is so central to its economic prosperity;
(iii) the involvement of local communities would also result in enhanced sustainability of the
restored infrastructure and cyclone and flood hazard mitigation structures, as they would take
greater care of these assets; and (iv) the enhancement of institutional capacity via the new
disaster management framework which would be in place at the end of project implementation
would further ensure that the economic and social impact of future disasters is minimized.
68.   The proposed project approaches natural hazard management and long-term mitigation
within the framework of environmental management. By emphasizing an integrated approach to
delta and coastal zone management connected to the flood and cyclone disaster management
planning, the proposed project would contribute to correct inadequate environmental practices
that are increasing the vulnerability of the coastal plain. In addition to saving lives and property,
the project would have a positive effect on the environment by supporting watershed and coastal
management, thereby helping to control natural resource depletion (especially naturally-
occurring mitigation elements such as mangroves), reduce vulnerability of irrigation and
transport infrastructure, and increase coastal defense.
69.   Project Risks. Two major risks have been identified: (a) GOI may fail to enhance the
early cyclone warning capacity. As a result, the desired benefit for the GOAP of saving lives
through early warning, timely evacuation and appropriate behavior would be impaired. To
safeguard against this risk, the Bank has secured assurances that IMD will enhance its early
cyclone warning capacity according to a schedule of agreed dates (See below Paragraph 41 .viii
and Section C of Technical Annex on IMD component). And (b) GOAP may falter on
committing adequate resources for the maintenance of restored assets. This risk has been
mitigated by a covenant requiring GOAP to fund not less than the maintenance levels
recommended in the Tenth Finance Commission and in consistency with agreements to be
reached for two other currently proposed Bank-financed projects for AP.6
6   AP Irrigation III and AP States Roads Project.



32
.Setion G: PERFORMANCE MONITORNG INDICATORS
70.   Two kinds of indicators would be considered for monitoring progress of the proposed
project: (i) program performance indicators, which allow to measure progress made toward the
fulfillment of the stated short-, medium- and long-term mitigation and recovery objectives, as
described for each of the proposed project components; and (ii) project performance indicators,
which measure the flow of the project with respect to procurement procedures, contract
preparation and approval, and general disbursement issues. When necessary, initial values of
some performance indicators would be established to provide a baseline to evaluate the extent to
which target values for each objective are being met (see Attachment 14).
71.   The natural hazard mitigation objectives of the project require specific indicators to
measure progress toward cyclone and flood vulnerability reduction in the target areas. This
implies the need to measure advances in the Hazard Management Program including (i)
undertaking of the hazard studies and development of action plans; and (ii) social, environmental
and economic issues such as levels of community involvement, enhancement of institutional
capacity for disaster management, changes in peoples' disaster perception and in their attitudes
toward disaster mitigation, as well as community and government commitment to sustaining
mitigation works through the amounts channeled via the Vulnerability Reduction Fund. The
restoration objectives require to measure the extent to which essential assets of the road,
drainage and electricity networks that were affected by the recent disaster are being timely and
appropriately repaired and/or reconstructed. Simultaneously, an important component of the
long-term mitigation objectives is to facilitate the involvement of CBOs, NGOs and the public at
large in disaster management planning and to ensure that public campaigns are being undertaken
to raise people's awareness regarding cyclone and flood hazards. To gather the necessary
information to measure progress toward these ends a monitoring plan has been devised. The
latter includes: (i) changes in peoples' hazard awareness; (ii) levels of community involvement
and commitment; (iii) changes in peoples' perceptions; and (iv) degree of commitment to long-
term mitigation objectives on the part of government officials at the sub-district level.
72.   Proposed indicators to monitor project performance would be: (i) average duration of
procurement procedures from launching of bids to contract awards (in calendar days) by year;
(ii) average duration of preparation, signature and approval of contracts (in calendar days) by
year; (iii) percentage of contracts implemented within the scheduled time frame (by year); (iv)
percentage of contracts implemented with no cost overrun (by year); and (v) percentage of
payments processed or transmitted to IDA within 30 days after receipt of invoice or due date (by
year).



Attachment 1
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY COSTS
(February 1997 Prices)
Rs. Million                US$ Million
No             Component                Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
I    Hazard Reduction Component.
(a) Studies, Action Plans,         207.62    311.43     519.05     5.71       8.56     14.27
(b) Coastal Mapping                 270.48     67.62    338.10     7.43       1.86      9.29
(c) Vulnerability Red. Fund         180.00      0.00    180.00     4.95       0.00      4.95
(e)EarlyWauningSystems               49.09    441.82    490.91     1.35      12.14     13.49
Sub-total               707.19    820.87    1528.06    19.44      2.56      42.00
II   Infrastructure Restoration
(a) Electricity Facilities          209.09    836.36    1(045.45   5.75      22.99     28.73
(b) Drains and Floodbanks           901.82    225.45    1127.27    24.79      6.20     30.98
(c) Roads & Bridges                1520.00    380.00    1900.00    41.77     10.45     52.22
(d) Public Buildings                160.00     40.00    200.00     4.40       1.10      5.50
(e) Mitigation Works                327.27     54.55    381.80     9.00       1.50     10.50
Sub-total              2790.91   1481.81   4272.72    76.71       40.74    117.43
III  Technical Assistance
(a) Incr. Operating Costs
Staff& Operating Cost              137.14     34.28     171.42     3.77      0.94      4.71
Sub-total               137.14      3.28     171.42     3.77      0&94       4.n
(b) Consultancies, Training and     136.36    136.36    272.73     3.75       3.75      7.50
Equipment
Sub-total               136.36    136.36     272.73     3.75       3.75      7.S0
Base Cost (Incl. DS&M)            4098.87   2527.87    6626.73   112.67      69.49    182.14
Physical Contingencies              361.13    232.12    593.25     9.93       6.38     16.30
Price Contingencies                 654.73    133.17    787.90    17.89       3.64     21.53
TOTAL PROJECT COST                5114.72   2893.16   8007,89   140.47       79,49    219.96
Note: Costs include design, supervision and management, physical and price contingencies. Domestic and (foreign)
inflation for 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 have been assumed at 7.0 (1.7) percent, 6.7 (2.2) percent, 6.5 (2.6)
percent, 6.0 (2.8) percent and 6.0 (2.6) percent, respectively. US Dollar - Rupee exchange rates have been assumed at
35.5, 36.0, 36.5, 37.0 and 38.0 for the years 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively. The total project cost
includes taxes and duties of about 15 percent. Design, supervision and management is assumed at 10 percent for all
components, except for technical Assistance, Training and Equipment, Institutional Strengthening Costs, Studies,
Action Plans, and Vulnerability Fund, where 5 percent has been assumed. Local /foreign split has been taken as
80:20, except for studies, Action Plans (40: 60), Vulnerability Fund (100: 0), Watershed Management (90: 10),
Electric Power 20: 80), Early Warning Systems (10: 90), and Technical Assistance, Training (50: 50).



Attachment 2
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULEKOF DISBURSEMENTSOF THEIA CREED IDfT
:AND) I fl     LOAN
(US$ millions)
Quarter Ending  Year  Bank Fiscal Year   Quarter   Cumulative  Percent Total Loan
Septembr030    1997          FY 9:          63              6.3            4
Deember 31       1997        FY 98           8.0           14.3           10
March31         1998         FY 98           9.0           23.3           16
June 30          1998        FY98            9.0           32.3           22
September30    1998          FY99           1000           42.3          28
Demer301        1998        FY 99          10.0           52.3           35
Marc31          1999 :    FY99              13,0           65.3           44
June 30         1999         FY 99          13.7           79,0           53
ptember 30    1999           FY 00          15.0           94.0          *63
Decemberr:31'   1999         FY00           15.0           109.0        :73
March:31        2000         FY00           15.0           124.0          83
June 3:0        2000         FY 00          15.o           139.0          93
September30    2000          FY 01           8.0           147.0         98
Deember0391;0311    2000     FY 01           3.0           150,0 10000
Note: Includes the US$12.5 million Special Account, half of which is assumed to be disbursed initially.



Attachment 3
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS WITH PHASING
(February 1997 Prices)
Total (Rupees)                 Total (US$)
Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign  Total
1. Hazard Management
Program
Studies                          197.73     296.60       494.33      5.43    8.15   13.59
DS&M                               9.89       14.83       24.72      0.27    0.41    0.68
Sub-total                     207.62      311.43      519.05      5.71    8.56   14.27
Physical contingencies            10.38       15.57       25.95      0.29    0.43    0.71
Price contingencies               32.00       15.78       47.78      0.87    0.43    1.31
Component sub-total           250,00      342,7B      592,78      6.87    9.42   16.28
2. Coastal Mapping, GOI
Studies Maps                     257.60      64.40       322.00      7.08    1.77    8.85
DS&M                              12.88        3.22       16.10      0.35    0.09    0.44
Sub-total                     270.48       67.62      338.10      7.43    1.86    9.29
Physical contingencies            13.52        3.38       16.91      0.37    0.09    0.46
Price contingencies               41.69        3.43       45.12      1.14    0.09    1.23
Ctomponent sub-total          325.70       74.43      400.12      8.94    2.04   10.9
3. Vulnerability Reduction Fund
Fund amount                      171.43        0.00      171.43      4.71    0.00    4.71
DS&M                               8.57        0.00        8.57      0.24    0.00    0.24
Sub-total                      180.00       0.00      180.00      4.95    0.00    4.95
Physical contingencies             0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
Price contingencies               26.42        0.00       26.42      0.72    0.00    0.72
Component sub-total           206,43        0,00      206.43      5.67    0.00    5.67
4. Electric Power
Transmission and distribution    190.08     760.33       950.41      5.22   20.90   26.12
DS&M                              19.01       76.03       95.04      0.52    2.09    2.61
Sub-total                     209.09      836.36     1045.45      5.75   22.99   28.73
Physical contingencies            20.91       83.64      104.55      0.57    2.30    2.87
Price contingencies               33.76       44.39       78.15      0.92    1.21    2.13
Component sub-total           263,76      964.39     1228.15      7.24   26.50   33.74
5. State Roads and Bridges
Roads &Bridges                  1090.91      272.73     1363.64     29.98    7.50   37.48
DS&M                             109.09       27.27      136.36      3.00    0.75    3.75
Sub-total                     1200.00     300.00     1500.00     32.98    8.25   41.23
Physical contingencies           120.00       30.00      150.00      3.30    0.82    4.12
Price contingencies              193.78       15.92      209.70      5.30    0.43    5.73
Component sub-total          1513.78      345.92     1859.70     41.57    9.50   51.08



2
Total (Rupees)                Total (US$)
Local    Foreign     Total      Local  Foreign  Total
6. Rural Roads and Bridges
Roads &Bridges                  290.91      72.73     363.64      8.00    2.00    9.99
DS&M                             29.09       7.27       36.36     0.80    0.20    1.00
Sub total                    320.00      80.00      400.00     8.79    2.20   10.99
Physical contingencies           32.00       8.00      40.00      0.88    0.22    1.10
Price contingencies              51.67       4.25       55.92     1.41    0.12    1.53
Component Sub total          403.68      92.25      495.92     11.09    2.53   13.62
7. Irrigation Drains and Flood
Banks
Drains&floodbanks               819.83     204.96     1024.79    22.53    5.63   28.17
DS&M                             81.98      20.50      102.48     2.25    0.56    2.82
Sub-total                    901.82     225.45     1127.27    24.79    6.20   30.98
Physical contingencies           90.18      22.55      112.73     2.48    0.62    3.10
Price contingencies             145.63      11.97      157.59     3.98    0.33    4.31
Component sub-total         1137.62     259.97     1397.59    31.24    7.14   38.39
8. Public Buildings
R&B andPR Buildings             145.46      36.36      181.82     4.00    1.00    5.00
DS&M                             14.55       3.64       18.18     0.40    0.10    0.50
Sub-total                    160.00      40.00      200.00     4.40    1.10    5.50
Physical contingencies           16.00       4.00      20.00      0.44    0.11    0.55
Price contingencies              25.84       2.12      27.96      0.71    0.06    0.76
Component sub-total          201.84      46.12      247.96     5.54    1.27    6.81
9. Shelter Belts
Tree plantations                 66.11      16.53      82.64      1.82    0.45    2.27
DS&M                              6.61       1.65       8.26      0.18    0.05    0.23
Sub-total                     72.72      18.18       90.90     2.00    0.50    2.50
Physical contingencies            7.27       1.82        9.09     0.20    0.05    0.25
Price contingencies              11.74       0.96       12.71     0.32    0.03    0.35
Component sub-total           91.74      20.96      112.70     2.52    0.58    3.10
10. Watershed Management
Program                         178.51      19.83      198.34     4.91    0.55    5.45
DS&M                             17.85       1.98       19.83     0.49    0.05    0.55
Sub-total                    196.36      21.82      218.17     5.40    0.60    6.00
Physical contingencies           19.64       2.18      21.82      0.54    0.06    0.60
Price contingencies              31.71       1.16       32.87     0.87    0.03    0.90
Component sub-total          247,70      25.16      272.86      6.80    0.69    7.49
11. Cyclone Shelters
Shelters                         52.90      13.22      66.12      1.45    0.36    1.82
DS&M                              5.29       1.32       6.61      0.15    0.04    0.18
Sub-total                     58.19      14.55       72.73      1.60    0.40    2.00
Physical contingencies            5.82       1.45       7.27      0.16    0.04    0.20
Price contingencies               9.40       0.77       10.17     0.26    0.02    0.28
Component sub-total           73.40      16.77       90.17     2.02    0.46    2.48
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 3: Detailed Project Costs with Phasing



3
Total (Rupees)                Total (USS)
Local    Foreign     Total      Local  Foreign  Total
12. Institutional Strengthening
Operating costs                 130.61      32.65      163.26      3.59    0.90   4.49
DS&M                              6.53       1.63        8.16      0.18    0.04   0.22
Sub-total                     137.14      34.28      171.42     3.77    0.94   4.71
Physical contingencies            6.86       1.71        8.57      0.19    0.05   0.24
Price contingencies              21.14       1.74       22.88      0.58    0.05   0.63
Component sub-total          165.13       37.74     202.87      4,54    1.04  .5.57
13. GOI Early Warning Systems
Equipment                        46.75     420.78      467.53      1.28   11.56  12.85
DS&M                              2.34      21.04       23.38      0.06    0.58   0.64
Sub-total                     49.09      441.82     490.91      1.35   12.14  13.49
Physical contingencies            4.91      44.18       49.09      0.13    1.21   1.35
Price contingencies               7.93      23.45       31.38      0.22    0.64   0.86
Component sub-total           61.93      509.45     571.37      1,70   140- *5.70i
14. Technical Assistance
(Other than Hazard Mitigation)
Consultancies
Project preparation             129.87     129.87      259.74      3.57    3.57   7.14
DS&M                              6.49       6.49       12.99      0.18    0.18   0.36
Sub-total                    136.36     136.36      272.73      3.75    3.75   7.50
Physical contingencies           13.64      13.64       27.27      0.37    0.37   0.75
Price contingencies              22.02       7.24       29.26      0.60    0.20   0.80
Component sub-total           172.02     157.24     329.26      4.72    4.32 - 04
TOTAL PROJECT COST             5114.72    2893.16     8007.89    140.47   71.49  .
Total Physical contingencies    361.13     232.12      593.25      9,93  6.38  .1&..$30
Total Price contingencies       654.73     133.17      787.90     17.89    3.64-  2153
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 3: Detailed Project Costs with Phasing



Attachment 4
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
VULNERABILITY REDUCTION FUND (VRF)                        7
(Formation, Operation and Criteria for Access)
PURPOSE OF VRF
1.    The purpose of the VRF is to provide a perpetual source of funding for hazard reduction
activities to be undertaken by communities.
ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNDING
2.     VRF shall be established by the GOAP no later than October 1, 1997, under the provisions
of the Indian Trusts and Charities Act. The VRF charter, organization, resource management
(including selection of an Asset Management Company) and operating procedures (i.e., its
grant/loan award policies) shall be agreed by IDA no later than July 1, 1997.
3.     The initial VRF endowment (capitalization) of at least US$5 million equivalent shall be
provided and paid in by the GOAP no later than October 1, 1997. Subsequent contributions to
VRF shall be made by March 31 of the years 1998, 1999 and 2000 from the resources of the
GOAP, amounting to the equivalent of the two percent of the annual appropriations for
infrastructure made under the Project in the respective year.
INVESTMENT OF VRF FUNDS AND ELIGIBILITY FOR VRF GRANTS/LOANS
4.    VRF Charter shall specify that its endowment shall be retained in perpetuity shall be
invested in accordance with the resource management principles specified therein. Only the
investment income thus generated shall be used for the purpose of providing matching financing
(grants and loans, as appropriate) for hazard reduction activities undertaken by communities.
PROCEDURES FOR VRF GRANT/LOAN APPROVAL AND ADMINISTRATION
5.    Individual VRF grant/loan approvals shall be cleared by the District Collectors (for up to
Rs500,000, and DMU for up to Rs1,000,000).
DMU OPERATING PROCEDURES CONCERNING VRF GRANTS/LOANS
6.     Grants/loans of RsS0O, 000 or Less shall be administered by the District Collectors, in
conjunction with the District Disaster Management Committee, on condition that the matching
contributions have been secured from the concerned communities.
7.     Grants/loans in excess of Rs500, 000 shall require prior approval of DMU. There shall be
a Rs. 1,000,000 maximum for individual grants/loans.
8.     Reporting. District Collectors shall submit bi-monthly reports to DMU of disbursement
made (comprising proposal summaries, amounts requested, proof of matching funds and the
proposed manner of the execution of works, such as contracting, self-help etc., and the proposed
execution period). DMU shall convene a semi-annual meeting of concerned District Collectors to
review the progress of VRF-supported operations, share experiences and report on issues.



2
9.    Audit. VRF disbursements shall be audited by independent external auditors, initially after
the first six months of VRF operation and thereafter annually.
TARGET AREAS
10.    Financial support from VRF shall be made available at the District level only. The District
Disaster Management Committees headed by the District Collector would disburse VRF proceeds
to communities for district-wide projects for (i) maintenance, relocation or upgrading of critical
infrastructure; (ii) dissemination of hazard mitigation information; (iii) upgrading of disaster
response and mitigation related communication; and (iv) the development of district level disaster
response plans and hazard mitigation strategies. Applications Will be required to provide a one-to-
one match in cash, materials, equipment, or services, with a minimum specified cash contributions.
Applicants from Talukas and Mandals may seek matching funds for
(i) upgrading of community structures;
(ii) maintenance and renovation of disaster shelters and critical infrastructure;
(iii) programs of hazard awareness, mitigation, and preparedness training; and
(iv) disaster management related communications.
These communities will be required to provide a documented 100 percent match including
building material, equipment, and/or labor.
11.   Information on VRF should be distributed throughout the state to all communities with
detailed stipulation of the terms of the grants and the acceptable applications. The DMU will retain
project oversight authority and manage disbursements to projects and agencies. At the conclusion
of each project, a standard accounting shall be made for all funds including matching resources,
and the accomplishment of each project shall be documented.
12.    GOAP will develop the charter including the constitution of the Board of Trustees,
capitalization, fund management, disbursement of the proceeds, monitoring and review
arrangements and audit procedures, for discussions and agreement with the Bank, no later than
July 1, 1997.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 4: Vulnerability Reduction Fund (VRF)



Attachment 5
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
....... ..0 t 0004ElECTRIC POWER FACILITIES
LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE RECENT DISASTER
1.    Several lessons have been learned as a consequence of the damages incurred during the
October and November 1996 floods and cyclone:
(a)    A large number of 220 KV and 132 KV towers could not withstand the high wind
velocities of 220-250 km/hour. The present system in the coastal region is designed to
withstand a maximum wind velocity of 150-180 kmh. Remedial measures to strengthen
selected 220 KV and 132 KV towers are necessary.
(b)    The prestressed concrete poles used for 33 KV and 11 KV lines have not responded
satisfactorily to high wind velocities. Nearly 17,000 poles collapsed during the November
cyclone in West Godavari district alone. Furthermore, the mild steel fabricated structures
could not withstand the cyclone. Conversely, the spun concrete cylindrical poles which
were used under the Bank's CERP project for constructing 713 km of 1 I KV lines and
643 km of 33 KV lines withstood the fury of the cyclone very well. Critical 33 KV and 11
KV lines should use round spun concrete poles.
(c)    For 11 KV and 33 KV lines using pre-stressed concrete poles, the Board's practice is to
pour concrete to the foundation of every fifth pole; the other four poles are just buried in
the ground. Such poles have been uprooted from the soil during floods as well as cyclones.
This practice needs to be changed.
(d)    The design of 11 KV and 33 KV lines with pin insulators has not proven satisfactory for
severe cyclonic conditions as conductors have become loose from the bindings.
Suspension insulators with clamps for conductors have proved to be superior.
(e)    Distribution transformers are placed by APSEB on concrete or steel platforms without
anchoring. Many of these have toppled during cyclones. Routine provision of anchor
bolts or strapping to hold transformers in place is essential.
(f)    Many 33 KV and 11 KV lines pass through fields, several kilometers away from the road.
Access to these lines became almost impossible after heavy rains due to flooding and
slushy land. It is necessary that routing of critical lines should be alongside roads.
(g)    The transmission line towers in the area are designed for a wind pressure of 150 kg/cm
(wind velocity of 180 km/hour). It is necessary to adopt a higher standard for the coastal
areas in view of the wind velocities in excess of 200 km/hour experienced in the latest
disaster.
(h)    APSEB depends primarily on powerline carrier (PLC) for communications in normal
times. During system collapse, as it happened after the November cyclone, the PLC
system becomes unavailable, thereby making communication difficult. VHF and UHF
communications facilities should be made available for the coastal systems.



2
(i)    Restoration of supply to essential services such as public health centers, water works,
telephone exchanges, etc., took longer than necessary since no special higher reliability
feeders are provided for such facilities.
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
2.    In light of the experience of the floods and cyclone in October/November, 1996, APSEB
would review and revise the current design and construction standards. After the cyclone of 1990
and consequent to the CERP, some distribution facilities were constructed with more stringent
design standards (e.g., use of spun concrete poles for 1 1 KV and 33 KV lines). These facilities
were not damaged during the floods and cyclone of 1996. However, APSEB has continued to
apply lower standards to save initial capital cost.
3.    In order to provide a sound basis for the revision of design and construction standards,
APSEB should undertake a detailed study that reviews and recommends appropriate standards
taking into account the different vulnerability levels of the districts. Terms of reference for such a
study are provided in Attachment 15.
OBJECTIVES
4.     After the floods and the cyclone, APSEB restored supply to most consumers in the affected
areas by carrying out repairs rapidly. Some of the repairs are of temporary nature, while most of
the restoration work was undertaken without assessing the need for upgrading the current design
and construction standards. The objective of the proposed project regarding the electricity network
is to assist APSEB in taking the necessary measures to complete the repair works while carrying
out the upgrading and strengthening of the network to diminish the impact of future disasters.
ACTIVITIES
5.     The activities included under this component are: (a) strengthening the existing 132 KV
and 220 KV transmission lines so that they can withstand cyclonic winds and floods; (b)
constructing some new 132 KV and 220 KV transmission lines and substations to improve the
reliability of supply, provide standby capacity and augment total supply capability; (c)
constructing new 33 KV lines with 12.5 meter spun concrete poles to provide alternate feed to
those 132 KV and 33 KV substations that do not have such facility; (d) construct new 1 1 KV lines
with 9.0 meter spun concrete poles so that each village has such a reliable feeder available to
supply essential loads such as pump houses, hospitals etc. and (e) provide additional
communication facilities to reduce reliance on PLCC facilities which become unavailable during
power failures. All new 33 KV and 11 KV lines will be routed along the road side for easier repair
access during emergencies.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5: Electric Power Facilities



3
PROPOSALS
6.     The main elements proposed under this component are:
1. 33KV lines (km)                     1151.50
(Includes 6 km of 33KV DC line)
2. 1 IKV lines (km)                     541.00
3. 33/11KV Substations (nos.)               22
4. River Crossings:
(i) 33KV (nos.)                           5
(ii) 11KV (nos.)                         19
5. 33KV Bay Extensions (km)             146.00
6. 220 KV D.C. line (km)                  8.00
7. 132 KV D.C. line (km)                202.00
8. 132/33 KV Substation (nos.)               2
7. Communication Network                     1
7.     Table 1 (see end of this attachment) provides details on: the transmission lines considered
in the electricity component (sections Al and A2); the 33 KV transmission lines in East and West
Godavari districts (sections B 1 and B2); and the 11 KV lines in the same districts. In addition,
section C presents the works proposed in other districts (e.g.. Cuddapah, Kumool, Prakasam and
Nellore).
HAZARD REDUCTION MEASURES
8.     The following mitigation measures for the distribution system are proposed:
(a)    33 KV lines emanating from a 132 KV or 220 KV substations feeding different 33 KV
substations in the cyclone-prone districts as alternate source of supply;
(b)    11 KV main lines emanating from a 33 KV or 132 KV sub-stations to cover all en-route
villages only. The proposed line is up to the entrance of the villages in the vulnerable districts;
(c)    Lines will be run along the road to facilitate easy erection, maintenance and rectification and
quick restoration of power supply in case of breakdowns or damages in the event of a cyclone;
(d)    In the coastal districts, the lines will be run on PSCC spun poles with a provision for multi-
circuits i.e., 3 to 4 lines, one 33 KV, one 1 1 KV and one or two LT lines; and
(e)    A reliable communication system that functions even during emergencies.
9.     The following mitigation options for the transmission system are proposed:
(a)    Tower strengthening;
(b)    Replacement of jointed conductor and earth wire;
(c)    Foundation and copings strengthening; and
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5: Electric Power Facilities



4
(d)    Erection of additional lines and sub-stations to ensure alternate and reliable supply.
COST ESTIMATES
10.    Table 2 and 3 provide the cost estimates for this component. The total base cost of the
electric power sector component amounts to Rs 136.10 crores. The proposals have been
categorized in three priority groups to allow scaling down of the project in case that adequate funds
are not available. The priorities established are:
S.No.  Item                                           Priority I  Priority 2   Priority 3
(Ri. Crores)
1.     Strengthening of existing 132 KV and 220 KV lines  12.40      -          -
2.     New 132 KV and 220 KV lines and substations       -          32.28      26.46
3.     Augmentation of 33 KV network in East & West      9.38        -          -
Godavari
4.     Augmentation of 11 KV network in East Godavari    834        8.67        -
5.     Augmentation of 11 KV network in West Godavari   2.78        10.84       8.09
6.     Augmentation of 11 KV and 33 KV networks in       6.0         6.0        -
Prakasam, Kurnool, Cuddapah & Nellore
7.     Communications facilities                        4.76         -
8.     Studies                                           0.10        -          -
TOTAL                                           43.66       57.79      34.55
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
LI.    APSEB has adequate capability, organization and manpower to implement the proposed
activities. There would be no need for consultants for project design or construction management,
except for the study recommended in paragraph 3. During project implementation, there will be a
central cell in the APSE Board's main office in charge of monitoring the progress of works, coordinating
the supply of materials to the field, completing the accounts from the various districts, monitoring and
submitting reimbursement claims, and overseeing general project-related activities. The central cell will
also submit to the Bank detailed design reports - for review and comments for all components of
the project - and monthly progress reports.
O&M ARRANGEMENTS
12.    APSEB has adequate and satisfactory O&M arrangements in place for the type of
facilities that are being created under the project. The Board operates and maintains over 6,900
km of 220 KV lines, 9,900 km of 132 KV lines, 14,000 km of 33 KV lines and 380,000 km of 11
KV lines. It will not be necessary to increase O&M budget provisions to any special extent on
account of the project.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5: Electric Power Facilities



5
TABLE 1- PROJECT PROPOSALS OF APSEB
A.    TRANSMISSION
A-i   Strengthening of Existing Lines (Priority)
S.No.   Item Details                                     Quantity  Cost (Rs. Lakhs)
I.      Strengthening of existing towers and replacement of    700 MT    210.0
tower parts
2.      Replacement of damaged conductors on 220 KV lines   250 KM    325.0
3.      Providing G.I. bolts and nuts on 220 KV and 132 KV   30 MT  15.0
towers
4.      Replacement of damaged conductors on 132 KV lines   200 KM    160.0
5.      Replacement of earthwire, accessories, insulators etc.   LS  100.0
on existing lines
6.      Replacement of lightening arresters              83 nos    40.0
7.      Rectification of foundations and provision of extra  LS     200.0
coping for 220 KV and 132 KV towers
8.      Replacement and strengthening of carrier         LS         90.0
communications on EHT lines
9.      Labour/Contract charges for works in (1) to (8)  LS         100.0
Sub Total                                                  12,40.0
A-2   New Works
S.No.    Item Details                                               Cost Rs. Lakhs
1.      220 KV DC line to Kakinada Substation and DC/SC line from   1458.70
Godavari GBPS and 220 KV Substation at Kakinada (Priority - 2)
2.       220 KV DC line from Vijjeswaram to Nidadavolu with bay     368.32
extension at Nidadavolu (Priority - 2)
3.       132 KV DC/SC lines from Bhimadole to Bhimavaram and         1401.46
Nidadavolu to Saggonda (Priority - 2)
4.       132 KV DC/SC line from Narsapuram to Razolu and 132 KV      1443.42
Substations at Narsapuram and Razolu (Priority - 3)
5.       132 KV DC/SC line from Amalapuram to Yanam (Priority - 3)  500.73
6.       132 KV DC line from Ramachandrapuram to Kakinada (Priority 3)  702.00
Sub Total                                                  5,874.63
Total Cost for Transmission (A-1 + A-2)                    71,14.63
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5: Electric Power Facilities



6
B.    DISTRIBUTION
B-1    East Godavari District - 33 KV Lines
S.No.   Item Details                                         Length    Cost
km        Rs. Lakhs
1.      R.C. Puram S.S. to Rayavaram                         8
2.      R. C. Puram S. S. to Gangavaram                      15
3.      R.C. Puram S.S. to Aryavatam                         16
4.      Yanam S.S to Tallarevu                               8
5.      Amalapuram S.S. to Kothapet to Kamalapuram           44
6.      Amalapuram S.S. to Nagaram to Razole to Malikipuram    36
7.      Amalapuram S.S. to Mummidivaram                      15
8.      220 KV Bomur S. S. to Vemagiri to Peravaram          14
Total                                               156        5,83.44
B-2    West Godavari District - 33 KV Lines
S.No.   Item Details                                         Length    Cost
Km        Rs. Lakhs
1.      Narsapura S.S. to Palcol                              1
2.      Bhimvaram S.S. to Veeravasaram                       21
3.      Kowada S.S. to Undi                                  9
4.      Tanuku S.S. to Penugonda to Pudur                    24
5.      Tanuku S.S. to Tetali to Mortha                      18
6.      Pedatadepalle S.S. to Narayanpuramn                  12
Total                                               95         3,55.30
Notes: 1. Cost estimated at Rs.3.74 lakhs per km.
2. All lines on 12.5 meter spun poles with 100 sq mm AAA conductors.
B-3    East Godavari - 11 KV Lines
Item                                                         Length    Cost
km        Rs. Lakhs
11 KV Lines emanating from 132 KV or 33 KV Substations and   612       1701.36
covering all enroute villages in 50 KM range from the coast.
Note: Priority I is 300 KM and priority 2 is 312 KM
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5: Electric Power Facilities



7
B-4    West Godavari District - 11 KV Lines
Item                                                                       Length    Cost
km         Rs. Lakhs
11 KV lines emanating from 132 KV or 33 KV Substations and                781         2171.18
covering all enroute villages in 50 KM range from the coast.
Note: Priority I = 100 KM, Priority 2 = 390 KM, Priority 3 = 291 KM
General Notes: 1. Cost estimated at Rs.2.78 lakhs per km.
2. All lines on 9.0 meter spun poles with 100 sq mm AAA conductors.
C       Works in Other Districts
District      Item                                                            Cost (Rs. Crores)
Cuddapah      3 River crossings and augmentation of 11 KV and 33 KV           1.00
network.
Kurnool       2 River crossings (Handri River) and augmentation of 11 KV and   2.00
33 KV network.
Prakasam      Construction of 33 KV and 11 KV lines to improved standards.    4.00
Nellore       Construction of 33 KV and 11 KV lines to improved standards.    5.00
TABLE 2 -COST ESTIMATETFOR ELECTRIC POWER COMPONENT
S.No.   Item                                            Cost   in   Rs.   Crores
Local        Foreign     Taxes &     Total
Duties
1.       Strengthening existing 132KV and 220KV     1.98         7.94        2.48        12.40
lines
2.       New 132 KV and 220 KV lines and            9.40         37.59       11.75       58.74
substations
3.       33KVlinesinEast Godavaridistrict          0.93          3.73        1.17        5.83
4.       33 KV lines West Godavari district         0.57         2.27        0.71        3.55
5.       11 KV lines in East Godavari district      2.72         10.89       3.40        17.01
6.       11 KVlinesinWestGodavaridistrict           3.47         13.90       4.34        21.71
7.       33 KV and 11 KV lines in Prakasam, Kumool,  1.92        7.68        2.40        12.00
Cuddapah and Nellore districts
8.       Communications facilities                  0.76         3.05        0.95        4.76
9.       T.A - studies                              0.02         0.08        -           0.10
SubtotalBaseCost                          21.77        87.13       27.20       136.10
Physical Contingency (5%)                 1.09         4.36         1.36       6.81
Price Contingency (10%) (approximate)     2.18         8.71         2.72       13.61
Total Project Cost                        25.04        100.20      31.28       156.52
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5. Electric Power Facilities



8
TABLE 3 - BASE COST TOTALS (DISTRIBUTION ELEMENTS)
Rs. in Lakhs US$ in Millions
l(i). 33KV lines SC on 1 IM          1525.70          4.24
Spun Poles
(ii) 33KV lines on DC 1 IM            31.80          0.09
Spun Poles
2.  33KV lines on 9.1M                1521.00         4.23
PSCC Poles
3.  llKVlineson llM                   750.60          2.09
Spun poles
4.  1 lKV lines on 9.1M               199.40          0.55
PSCC Poles
5. 33/11KV Substations                1285.00         3.57
6. River Crossings:    33KV            31.00          0.09
1IKV            9.50           0.03
7.  Bay Extensions                    170.00          0.47
8. Comnmunication Network             476.00          1.32
TOTAL                                6000.00          16.67
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 5: Electric Power Facilities



Attachment 6
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
PROJECT SCOPE
1     The GOAP and the Bank have identified the following two critical areas for emergency
recovery in the irrigation and drainage sector in the areas affected by the cyclone and floods of
1996, for funding under the project:
(a)    Drainage network: reconstruction and rehabilitation of drainage network.
(b)    Flood Embankments: reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged flood banks.
2.    The project would not provide funding for restoration of a very large number of small
tanks. The GOAP has already secured funding of about US$34 million (Rs. 1180 million) from
NABARD for restoration of four large dams and construction of 101 new minor tanks/sources. In
addition GOAP has sought funding from NABARD for restoration of large number of minor
irrigation sources in eleven districts of the state damaged during the 1996 floods.
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.    The project will provide support for the following sub-components under the Irrigation and
Drainage component. Construction of new drains or new flood banks will be undertaken only if no
displacement of people is involved. If the studies reveal the need to acquire land or displace people,
construction of such new flood banks or drains will be deleted from the project:
(a)   Improvement to Drainage Network in the delta: US$34.1 million (Rs779.3 million); and
(b)   Improvement to Flood Embankments and construction of flood banks to protect one town
and four villages: US$11.8 million (Rs413.4 million)
TOTAL of Irrigation and Drainage Component: US$45.9 million (Rs 1192.7 million)
4.    Drainage Network (US$34.1 million, Rs779.3million). The major objective of
improvement to the drainage system is to complete the minor drains in the six delta districts, where
the improvement of a large number of major and medium drains was executed under the CERP, so
that the drainage of the entire valley/sub-valley is completed under the present project.
Improvement to 8 major drains and 23 medium drains in these districts, which have been identified
as essential to achieve the aforesaid objective is also included in the project. Two of the 8 major
drains proposed for improvement under the project are the leftover work of the CERP 1990
project. The project will also include replacement of 14 masonry structures across main drains
including three outfall structures at the junction of main drains with the Godavari river, as these
old structures are dilapidated and their replacement is essential for effective functioning of the
drainage system in the delta. The following table gives the district wise picture of the extent of
work involved under this component.



2
(i)    Minor Drains - US$10.3million (Rs360.4 million)
S.No      District      No. of      Total length of   Area benefited    Cost of Improvement
Drains      drains (Kn)          (Ha)            (is. moltion)
1      EastGodavari       174            519             70,689              31.7
2      West Godavari      547           1181            1,79,766             88.5
3      Krishna            563           1340            2.36,746              100
4      Guntur             317            717             90,294              61.5
5      Prakasam           63             118             11,846              13.1
6      Nellore             79            236             10,116              65.6
TOTAL             1743           4111            5,99,457            360.4
(ii)    Medium Drains US$3.57 million (Rs 124.9 million)
S.No      District     No. of Drains   Total length of   Area benefited    Cost of Improvement
drains (kmn)      (Ha)            (Ri. miJllon)
1      East Godavari  6              16              550             19.9
2      West Godavari  -              -               -               -
3      Krishna         -             -               -               -
4      Guntur          -             -               -               -
5      Prakasam        -             -               -               -
6      Nellore                                       12434           105.0
TOTAL          23             157             12984           124.9
(iii)   Major Drains US$3.92 million (Rs 137.2 million)
S.No      District      No. of      Total length of   Area benefited    Cost of Improvement
Drains       drains (km)          (Ha)           (Rs. million)
1      East Godavari   1          15.3               17,402           50.0
2      West Godavari  -           -                  -                 -
3      Krishna         1          28.2               n/a               25.6
4      Guntur          -          -
5      Prakasam        6          47                 15,784            61.6
6      Nellore         -          -
TOTAL          8          90.5                n/a              137.2
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 6: Irrigation and Drainage



3
(d)    Structures across drains US$4.48 million (Rs156.8 million)
i:S.:No   J)0istic0   ;Name of Structure        Fitinated cost:(&ts mflwo)
I      East Godavari  Groyne at Konavaramn           30 (left over from CERP
Regulator at Navarayeru        2.5
Culvert of Gaderu drain        0.8
2      West Godavari Nakkala outfall                  30.0 (left over from CERP)
Madhavayapalam outfall         20.0
Darbharevu outfall             10.0
3      Krishna        Bodameru Railway Bridge         45.2 (left over from CERP)
4      Guntur         Repalle Drain Bridge            4.0
5      Nelore         Six bridges on 4 major drains   14.3
TOTAL          14 structures                  156.8
5.    Flood Embankments (US$11.8 million, Rs413.4 million). Strengthening / construction of
the following flood embankments is proposed to be funded under the project.
S.N    0isrict:       N. of Loations  Lengt of Einbankments (km) Cost (R  million)
I     East Godavari  3                48.68                      150
2     West Godavari  3                17                          8.4
3     Khammam         3               n/a                        130
4     Warangal        1               8.76                       125
TOTAL          10              n/a                        413.4
DESIGN STANDARDS, STATUS OF DESIGNS AND PLANNING
6.     Drainage Network The improvement to the drainage network will follow the Indian
Standard Guidelines (IS Code No: 8835 - 1978) and the criteria agreed and adopted for drainage
schemes improved under CERP 1990, which was based on a maximum three day rainfall with a
return period of 25 years. The alignments of all drains proposed to be improved under the project
are to follow the existing drain locations on ground. However detailed hydraulic designs based on
the agreed criteria have yet to be done, and therefore the present estimated cost is on prorata cost
per km of minor drains, based on costs for similar work executed in 1996. The estimated cost of
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 6: Irrigation and Drainage



4
medium and major drains is based on cumec/km rate based on actual work executed in the recent
past. It has been agreed that the implementation of this work will be subject to Bank's clearance
after the technical studies to establish its effectiveness and suitability in the context of the action
plans for hazard reduction planning, which is a main objective of this project are completed.
7.    Flood Embankments. Detailed studies will be carried out for the new flood banks
required to protect villages at risk. However, if any of the works involve displacement of people or
acquisition of land, these works will be deleted from the project. The repair and rehabilitation of
the existing flood banks in PIP, Gautmi Right and Left banks will follow the Indian Standard
Guidelines for planning and design of River Embankments (IS Code No. 12094-1987) and the
design criteria for flood protection embankment sections as prescribed by the Central Water
Commission (CWC) of the GOI. For improvement of existing tidal banks in West Godavari, the
standards agreed and adopted for Krishna Eastern Tidal Banks in Krishna district in the CERP
1990 will be followed. The estimation of present cost (1996 prices) is based on the actual length of
the embankments and finalized principal levels of the embankment based on the afore-mentioned
standards. However the exact cross-section of the embankments has to be designed based on test
results of soil to be used, and detailed cross-sections of the existing embankments. Final estimates
are expected to be ready by May 31,1997, for timely procurement and commencement of work by
December 1997.
8.    For flood protection works to Bhadrachalam town (Khammam district) which is a new
work, detailed field surveys have been carried out and detailed designs have been approved by the
Central Design Organization and are based on the above-mentioned IS code and CWC Guidelines.
The present cost, at 1996 prices, is based on detailed estimates. However, further studies to assess
and quantify the effect of the proposed embankment on the opposite bank of Godavari River are
necessary. The final design and alignment of the flood embankment to protect Ettapaka and
Marakala villages (Khammam district) and Etumagaram and Ramannagudem villages (Warangal
District) are yet be worked out, so the current cost estimates are approximate. The conditions for
implementation of these works will be similar to those indicated above for Bhadrachalam. If the
construction of any of the above embankinents involves displacement of people, the works will be
deleted from the project.
SPECIFICATIONS AND QUALITY CONTROL
9.    Construction works under the Irrigation and Drainage Component will be carried out by
the Irrigation Department, GOAP, through its field formations. AP Standard Specifications
currently applicable to these works and the construction practices recommended in the USBR
Earth Manual, Concrete Manual and Drainage Manual will be followed for execution of works
under the project. Suitable Check Lists and O.K. Card system for construction control will be
developed by the Chief Engineer Major Irrigation who is in charge of both the sub-components of
the Irrigation and Drainage Component of the Project and controls six field circles headed by
Superintending Engineers for these works.
10.   In view of the fact that a large amount of work, in both physical and financial terms, has
to be executed under this emergency project, it is essential that due attention is paid to ensure high
quality of works in the field. An independent Quality Control Unit headed by a Superintending
Engineer exists in the Irrigation Department, which reports to the Chief Engineer Central Designs
Organization. He has four Executive Engineers and supporting technical staff to assist him. This
Unit has designated technical staff for works in each field circle. This independent Quality Control
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 6: Irrigation and Drainage



5
Unit will furnish reports on quality of works simultaneously to the Engineer-in-Chief, the Chief
Engineer Designs and the Chief Engineer Major Irrigation.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR HAZARD REDUCTION
11.   Dam Safety Assurance Program. In order to ensure that the dams are continuously
maintained in good health to withstand the forces of nature, an institutional mechanism to
implement a Dam Safety Assurance Program (DSAP) in the state is essential.
I1.    The various steps to implement a Dam Safety Assurance Program are:
(a)    Setting up a State Dam Safety Organization (DSO) in the State Irrigation Department,
headed by an officer of level not less than a Superintending Engineer, to be designated as
Director DSO. The DSO will be provided with adequate number of Executive Engineers
and Assistant Engineers and other technical staff. The Director DSO will be responsible
for monitoring the implementation of the DSAP in respect of all dams in the state
(covering dams maintained by various departments of the state as well as private parties, if
any). He will report to the Chief Engineer Designs and Engineer-in- Chief Irrigation. The
Director DSO will also be the Member Secretary of the State Dam Safety Committee (see
below).
(b)    A State Dam Safety Committee (SDSC) will be set up under the chairmanship of the
Secretary Irrigation Department and all Chief Engineers will be members of this
committee. The Director DSO will be the Secretary of the SDSC. The SDSC will meet at
least once in three months to review the implementation of the DSAP, described below.
(c)    The various actions required to achieve a satisfactory Dam Safety Assurance Program are:
(i) Bi-annual (pre-monsoon and post monsoon) inspections of all dams by the field officials
in charge of the dam maintenance at the level of designated authority depending on the
size/hazard potential of the dam or dams. These inspections should be carried out and
inspection reports on prescribed formats sent by the inspecting officer to the Director DSO
and the Chief Engineer concerned.
(ii) Evaluation of the bi-annual report by the DSO to assess the safety condition of the dam
and reporting to concerned Chief Engineer of action. Annual repairs or special repairs,
where found necessary on the basis of this evaluation will be the responsibility of the
concerned Chief Engineer.
(iii) DSO to carry out, independently, Phase I inspections of all large dams (as per
definition by International Commission of Large Dams) in accordance with "Guidelines
for Safety Inspection of Dams" issued by the Central Water Commission in the year
1987. All dams having a maximum height of more than 15 meters and /or having a gross
storage capacity of more than 60 million cum will fall in this category. All large dams in
the state will go through a Phase I inspection once in a five year cycle. The Director DSO
will prepare evaluation report of Phase I inspections and present the same in the SDSC,
pointing out the names of dams requiring detailed Phase II investigations (as per CWC
Guidelines of 1987). SDSC will fix priorities and time schedule for such Phase II
investigations to be carried out through the Chief Engineer Designs and Chief Engineer in
charge, or through consultants.
(iv) Based on the result of Phase II investigations, which will cover both the structural as
well as hydrologic analyses, designs for remedial works to dams will be carried out and
thereafter implemented to bring the dam to a safe condition according to the currently
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 6: Irrigation and Drainage



6
standards of India. The SDSC will decide on the prioritization for carrying out remedial works and
provide special funds for the purpose.
PROCUREMENT
12.    Drainage Network
Itenm            Over 10 m   6-10 m   3-6m   Less than 3m   Force Account   TOTAL
(Rs Million)
Minor Drainage    NIL       NIL      NIL   290.4         70             360.4
Medium Drainage  40.8       7.0      52.7    24.4                       124.9
Major Drainage   137.2      -        -      -            -              137.2
Structures       135.2      -        4.0    17.6         -              156.8
TOTAL            313.2      7.0      56.7  332.4         70             779.3
2.     Flood Embankments
Districi    Over 10 m   6-10 m: 3-6m   Less than 3m   Force Account  TOTAL
(Rs. Million)
East Godavari  150        -        -      -            -              150
West Godavari  -          7.2      -      1.2          -              8.4
Khammam        93.8       6.5      -      1.0          -              101.3
Warangal       104        -        4.5    -            -              108.5
TOTAL          347.8      13.7    4.5    2.2           -              367.2
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 6: Irrigation and Drainage



Attachment 7
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
ROADS AND 1I:IDGES
1.    This attachment provides details of the project proposals by District for both the State
Roads and Buildings (R&B) Department and the Panchayati Raj Engineering Department.
Depending on bid prices received during implementation, the restoration costs of roads and bridges
proposed could exceed the funds allowed under this component. In such an eventuality, the
selection of roads and bridges for restoration will follow the prioritization arrived at under the joint
consultations between the Departments and the District authorities.
2.    All road works will be carried out to enhanced standards given in Attachment 12.
3.    Any road works that require land acquisition or requires the displacement of people, will
be deleted from the project. If it is necessary to displace people for road widening, the relevant
section of the road will be excluded from the project or the widening will not be undertaken.
OBECTIVE AND STRATEGY
4.    The main objective of the proposed investments is to create a reliable road network that
connects vulnerable areas to select nodal centers from where transport, relief and rehabilitation
operations can be coordinated in the event of a natural disaster. To this effect, some important
arterial roads, which serve large populations, are proposed to be improved to standards that can
withstand cyclonic rains and floods. The thrust of the project is on the creation of a dependable
road connections between vulnerable areas and the National Highways which can then act as links
to important centers from where relief operations, like food and medical supplies, can be effectively
channeled. The development of these roads will also help the vulnerable population salvage
whatever agricultural produce they can and convey them to the market centers. Both State
Highways and Major District Roads have been considered as per the need of the area, as
articulated by the District representatives.
PRIORITIZATION OF PROPOSALS
5.    Prioritization has been based on vulnerability and hazard mitigation. Wherever the general
road condition is found to be bad due to its poor sub-grade or the roads are considered crucial for
cyclone mitigation, they have been accorded a higher priority. Wherever link or alternate routes
are required for the NH, they have been considered along with linkage to other important corridors
of State Highways. The ERR for most of the roads included in the project vary between 12 percent
and 20 percent.
6.    Improvement to the selected set of road stretches has been accorded the highest priority in
a process of consultation at the District and State levels. Critical damaged road sections were
identified in various districts and prioritized on the basis of the population they served and their
criticality within the network. The pre- and post-disaster status of such roads were assessed and
the major bottlenecks identified in each of the affected districts. Detailed cost estimates for repair
and restoration using both existing and improved specifications were calculated. The implication
of using better specifications on O&M expenses was also estimated. Based on these, the priority I



2
and 2 options were arrived. Some important Panchayati Raj roads connecting (a) vulnerable
settlements to link roads (b) settlements to cyclone shelters are also being proposed.
7.    The proposed improvements, in the form of strengthening the existing crust and widening
of the carriageway of the roads, are listed below:
Widening of Carriageway:   3.80M to 5.50M (1/L) or 7.00 M (DIL) with gravel shoulders
Strengthening:             Building additional crust with:
1) Profile correction course with Bituminous Macadam layer
50mm thick
2) Bituminous Macadam/Dense Bituminous Macadam layer of
50mm thick
3) Bituminous concrete wearing course 25mm thick
Bridges:                   Reconstruction of collapsed structures and construction of high
level bridges at existing bed level/low level causeways which
cause obstruction during floods.
8.    Embankments will be raised to a minimum of 0.60 to 1.0 above average ground level and
formation is proposed to be widened to 9M to 12M as per standards of IRD. The embankment is
proposed to be protected at vulnerable areas such as canal/drain banks with revetment/retaining
walls using geo-textile. Drains are also proposed within village limits in combination with concrete
pavements in low lying areas.
IMPLEMENTATION
9.    The R&B and PR departments will implement the project. They have the capabilities and
experience required to execute the task. Under the CERP with World Bank assistance, these
departments successfully completed 90 projects and two other projects, executed with assistance
from the Asian Development Bank, are nearing completion under R&B as per schedule. These
departments also have separate cells to execute extemally aided projects. This functions under the
direct supervision of the Engineers-in-Chief of the respective departments.
DETAILED PROPOSALS
10.   The list of roads arrived at following the above prioritization is attached. Table 1 provide
the list of state roads under the R&B Department. Tables 2a and 2b lists the rural roads under the
responsibility of the Panchayati Raj Engineering Department. Any land acquisition or road
widening that involves displacement of people will be excluded from the project. If any stretches
of roads scheduled for widening involve displacement of people, the relevant stretch will be
dropped from the project or the widening will not be undertaken.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7. Roads and Bridges



3
Table 1  P- Prposals for Roads Component  (R&B  Department)
SI          Description of Work (According to Bid Package)              Road  Length Base Cost
No.                                                                     Class   Km         Rs
East Godavari District
I Improvements to Jonnada - Mandapeta - Ramachandrapurm-Pcnuguduru road    MDR   47.70    907.83
Kakinada - Rajahmnundry road (via) Biccavolu (krn46/6 to 55/0)        SH     8.40     108.20
2 Improvements to Kakinada - Yanam road                                 MDR   20.00    238.42
3 Improvements to Ananthavaram - Pallamkurru road                      MDR    19.00    362.21
K-A-N-F road (km 41/0 to 51/6)                                       MDR    10.00    132.97
4 Construction of bridge at km 3318 of K-A-N-F road                     MDR   45.00       55.02
Construction of HLB at kn 57/10 of Rajahmundry - Bhadrachalam road    SH     25.00     36.68
5 Rajahunundry-Bhadrachalam road (km2O/0 to 30/0) (Foulxpet to Korukonda)  SH   10.00    132.97
TOTAL                                                                       115.10   1974.30
West Godavari District
6 Improvements to Bhimavaram-Palacole road                              MDR   22.80    489.68
7 Improvements to Martair-Prakkilanka rd up to Peravali (kmO/0 to 15/0)  MDR    15.00    375.97
Improvements to Tanuku - Bhimavaram road (km 21/0 to 33/0)           MDR    12.00    269.60
8 Construction of Bridge at Km 24/6 of Polavaramn - Koyyalgudem road     -      24.00    41.26
9 Const. Bridge across Gosthani drain km 4/6 of Tanuku-Bhimavaram rd    MDR   24.00      41.26
10 Narsaraopet - Aswaraopet road (Tadepalligudem to Nallajerla)          SH     20.00    313.63
TOTAL                                                                        69.80    1531.40
Prakasam District
I  Reconstruction of bridge in kmn. 49/6 of Ongole - Nandyal road       SH     40.00     36.68
Ongole - Nandyal road (upto Podili ) (km 28/0 to 51/0)                SH     23.00    410.82
12 Reconstruction of Bridge in 1/6 to 3/0 of Besthavaripeta - Tokapalli rd  SH  50.00     68.77
Reconstruction of HLB in km. 105/6 of Ongole - Nandyal road           SH     40.00     91.70
13 Construction of HLC at kml 5/6-10 of Seetharamapuram - Konapalli rd  MDR   80.00    73.36
Construction of HLB in km 84 of D-K-D road                           MDR   90.00    110.04
Construction of HLC across Turpu vagu tributary of Manneru in km 34/24  MDR   50.00    36.68
Kanigiri - DG peta
Construction of HLB in km 46/4 of Kandukuru - Pamuru road            MDR   150.00    206.33
14 Parchur - Inkollu road (km 5/0 to 19/32)                             MDR    14.00    247.62
TOTAL                                                                        37.00    1282.00
Nellore District
15 Improvements to Nellore - Bellary - Bombay road (km 16/0 to 30/0)     SH     14.00    246.67
Nellore-Mulumudi-Tatipatri road (km 8/4 to 16/4)                     MDR    8.00      143.06
16 Reconstruction of HLB at km 14/8 of K-U-S road across Cheekatigavu   MDR   100.00    128.38
K-U- S road (km 35/0 - 60/0 Kaligiri - Duttalur)
17 Nellorepalem-Atmakur - Somasila rd                                   MDR   20.00    265.93
18 Nellore - Mypadu road (km 0.4 to 14/0)                                SH     30.60    201.74
Construction of bridge across B-canal in km 23 of Nellore- Mypadu rd  SH     20.00     36.68
19 Construction of bridge across B-canal at Vadapalem in km 3/0 of link road to    MDR   20.00  36.67
Armagaon light house from N-D road
TOTAL                                                                        72.60    1392.00
Cuddapah District
20 Improvements to Mydukur - Tadicherla road (km 35/0 to 65/0)           SH      30.00    536.45
Construction of HLC at km. 36/6 of Mydukur - Tadicherla road          SH    100.00    137.55
Nellore-Bellary-Bombay road (km 193/0 to 197)                         SH      3.60     63.27
21 Construction of HLB at Km 35/6-10 of Cuddapah - Pulivendula road     MDR   320.00    375.97
22 Construction of HLB at Km 46/4-6 of R-V road near Gandi              MDR   300.00    440.16
TOTAL                                                                        33.60    1553.40
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



4
Table 1 - Proposals for Roads Component (R&B Department)
Si           Description of Work (According to Bid Package)               Road  Length Base Cost
No.                                                                       Class   Km          Rs
Chitoor District
23 Yerpedu - Chennur road (km 0.6 to 25.12)                                 SH     24.50    325.54
24 Tada - Kalahasti road (km 1/320 to 13/320)                             MDR    12.00    159.56
25 Chittoor - Puttur road (between km. 32/0 to 65)                        MDR    28.00    385.14
26 Palamner - Krishnagiri road (km 0/0 to 20/0)                             SH     20.00    412.67
TOTAL                                                                          84.50    1282.91
Ananthapur District
27 Improvements to Ananthapur - Palamner road (km38.0 to 60/0)              SH     31.00    662.05
28 Ananthapur - Raichur road (km 52/0 to 64/0)                             SH      12.00    159.55
TOTAL                                                                          43.00    821.60
Kurnool District
29 Improvements to Nandyal - Thimmanayanipeta rd (up to koilkuntla) (km 15/0 -    SH  20.00    357.63
40/0)
30 Construction of HLB in Km 36/6-8 of Kurnool - Bellary rd across Hundri river    SH    100.00    137.55
31 Improvements to Devanakonda - Pattikonda road                          MDR    18.00    239.34
improvements to Kodumuru - Yemmniganur road                            MDR    15.70    280.58
TOTAL                                                                          53.70    1015.10
Khamman District
32 Improvements to Burgampad - Aswaraopet road (km 0/0 to 37/0)           MDR    25.00    229.24
33 Construction of HLB at Nagineniprola in Km 3/2 of Gunmmuru - Sarapala -  MDR    60.00     82.53
Nellipaka road
Construction to HLB at Km 1/6 Kukunur - Velairpad across Gundetivagu   MDR    50.00      91.70
HLB at in Km 7/10 of Gummuru - Sarapala - Nellipaka road               MDR    50.00      64.19
HLB at Km 13/3 Kukunur - Velairpad                                     MDR    50.00      91.70
34 Construction of Minor Bridges at Nellipaka-Pochavaram road (at km 55/2  MDR    50.00      73.36
55/8,57/6,58/2 & 58/4)
35 HLB across Tapavagu at Km 41/224 of Bhadrachalam-Chandrupatla rd        SH      25.00     36.68
HL Submersible Bridge across Kistapuramvagu at Km 130/8 of Bhadrachalam -   SH    100.00    119.21
Chandrupatla rd
HL Submersible Bridge across at Km 135/68 of Bhadrachalam-Chandrupatla rd   SH  15.00    18.34
HLSubmersible Bridge across Pavurallavagu at Km 136/10 of Bhadrachalam -    SH  70.00    82.53
Chandrupatla rd
HLSubmersible Bridge across Lottipittagandi vagu at Km 141/6 of         SH     25.00     36.68
Bhadrachalam - Chandrupatla rd
36 Widening of low level causeway in km 32 of Suryapet - Aswaraopet rd     SH    345.00    114.63
Formation of lower tank bund road from km 33/0 of Suryapet - Aswaraopet road   SH  1.80  183.40
Widening of bridge across Palair canal in km 31 of Suryapet - Aswaraopet rd  SH  50.00   22.93
37 Improvements to Kothagudem - Muthugudem road (between km 20/0 to 40/0)   MDR    10.00    153.14
TOTAL                                                                          36.80    1400.26
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



5
Table 1 - Proposals for Roads Component (R&B Department)
SI           Description of Work (According to Bid Package)              Road  Length Base Cost
No.                                                                      Class   Km          Rs
Warangal District
38 Improvements to Hanamkonda - Nagaram road                             MDR   45.40    573.13
Improvements to Burgampad - Eturunagaram road up to Kamalapur road (Km  MDR    90.00    481.43
65/0 to 90/0)
39 Improvements to Parkal - Mahadevpur road (km 7/0 to 30/0)             MDR   20.00    275.10
TOTAL                                                                         90.40    1329.66
Medak District
40 Construction of bridge at km 71/8 10 of Sangareddy -Nanded-Akola rd    SH      60.00     55.02
Reconstruction of bridge at km 87/8 10 of Sangareddy-Nanded-Akola rd   SH     60.00     55.02
41 Reconstruction of bridge at km. 39/8 - 1O of Medak - Siddipet inlieu of  SH    80.00    73.36
damaged causeway
42 Improvements to Sangareddy - Nanded - Akola rd (km 52/0 to 70/0 & 10/0 to  SH  37.00    642.82
40/0)
43 Improvements to Sangareddy - Narsapur - Toopran road                   SH      15.00    265.93
Improvements to Pattancheru - Shankarpalli road (km 2/0 to 12/0)      MDR    10.00    221.90
TOTAL                                                                         62.00   1314.05
Adilabad District
44 Reconstruction of bridge at km. 41/4 of Basar - Luxettipet road         SH     70.00    73.36
Reconstruction of bridge at km. 64/4 of Basar - Luxettipet road        SH    100.00    91.70
45 Improvements to Basar - Luxettipet road                                SH      15.00    268.68
46 Improvements to Coal belt road (upto NH 18)                           MDR    9.00       123.80
Mancherial town limits (H-K-C road)                                    SH      4.00     40.35
47 Construction of HLB at km 9/2 of Adilabad - Kerimeri road             MDR    75.00       77.95
Boath - Kinwath road (km 10/0 to 16/0)                                MDR    6.00       46.77
Adilabad - Talaiguda road (km 16/0 to 23/0)                           MDR    8.00       55.02
48 Utnoor - Indanpally road (km 41/0 to 48/0)                            MDR    7.00        55.01
HLB at km 18/7 of Pandavpur - Kalamadugu road                         MDR    95.00      68.78
TOTAL                                                                         49.00    901.42
Karimnagar District
49 Improvements to Karimnagar - Jagityal road (km 23/0 to 49/0)           SH      26.00    531.86
Improvements to Karimnagar - Kamareddy road (km 33/0 to 42/0)          SH      9.00     161.39
50 Reconstruction of bridge in km 18/4 of Huzurabad - Parkal             MDR   150.00    275.10
TOTAL                                                                         35.00    968.35
Rangareddy District
51 Improvements of Vikarabad - Tandur road (km 19/0 to 39/0)             MDR   20.00    357.63
52 Improvements to Hyderabad - Bijapur road (km 80/0 to 109/0)            SH      28.00    504.35
TOTAL                                                                         48.00    861.98
GRAND TOTAL                                                                  855.50   17628.43
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



6
Table2a- Proposals for Roads Component (Panchayati Raj Department)
Constituency      Description of Work                                           Length    Amount
Km         Rs
Adilabad
Adilabad          CJO Cause way A/C Bheemsarai Vaguon R/F Adilabad to Bheemsarai            45.00
in km 0/8 to 1/0
Asifabad          R/F Bela to Sayeedapur via Masala                              7.00       40.00
Boath             C/O Bridge across Koddamvagu on R/F Dheagon to Dignoor via                47.00
Bhoosra
Chennur           C/O CD works on R/F Palathittu to Awadem (Mandamarri limits)              45.00
major CD works on Kondanagula Vagu
Khanapur          Tadiphadapnur to Gudamamda via Patnapur                        10.00      40.00
Laxettipet        C/O Cause way on R/F Chandaram to Hanmanthupally                          45.00
Mudhole           CIO Causeway on Bhagyakkavagu on R/F Mategaon to Halda                    45.00
Nirmal            Dharmaram to PWD road (via) Chamanpally                        5.00       30.00
Nirmal            Chityal to Dilwarpur via Kanjar Banspalli                      3.00       18.00
Sirpur            R/F Venkatapur to Girvelli                                     8.00       45.00
TOTAL                                                                           33.00      400.00
Anantapur
Anantapur         Anantapur bypass road to Kanaganapalli (via) Gandlaparthy      6.00       28.00
Dharmavaram       Dharmavaram-Krishnapuram                                       4.00       28.00
Gooty             Kasapuram to Gooty via Kanjanapalli, Obulapuram                6.00       30.00
Gorantla          Gorantla to Kodikonda (via) Singireddipalli                    4.00       32.00
Hindupur          Pulakunta-Cheruvaram road (via) Kondapalli                     4.00       28.00
Kadiri            Talupula to Kolekanuma (via) Peddanmavaripalli                 6.00       28.00
Kalyandurg        Kalyandurg-Kundurpi                                            4.00       28.00
Madakasira        Madakasira to Roddam up to state border                        5.00       28.00
Nallamada         Cheekatimanipalli to C.G. Project (via) Kolepalli              4.00       28.00
Penukonda         Settipalli to Puttaparthi via Peddaballi and CD works          6.20       28.00
Rayadurg          D. Hirehal to B.K. road (via) Nemakal                          5.00       28.00
Singanamala       Singanamala to Garladinne                                      4.00       28.00
Tadipatri         Yadiki to Chintalalayapalli                                    4.00       28.00
Uravakonda        Uravakonda to Vidapanakal (via) Chabala                        6.00       30.00
TOTAL                                                                           68.20      400.00
Chittoor
Chandragiri       Tondawada Rainapuram road to Pathasanambatla                   3.00       15.00
Chittoor          Chittoor Aranigonda road to meet MCB rd via Katyam, Bommaipally  3.00     15.00
Kuppam            Kuppam - Palamaneru road to Arimenapeta road via Krishnapuram  6.00       40.00
Nanjampeta, Balla and Veeramanamalla
Madanapalle       BT to R/F Madanpalli to Panasamakulapally via Ponnutipalem     4.00       20.00
Nagari            PS road to NN rd (via) MSV Puram, Elakatoor, Melambkam, Arror  3.00       15.00
Palamaner         PG road to Chettapenta via Vengarakunta Kariomadugu            3.00       15.00
Piler             Nerabylu to Bhakrapeta via Devarakonda                         4.00       20.00
Punganur          Laddigam - Gundupalli- Boyakonda road                          3.00       15.00
Puttur            INP road to Seetharamnapurarn via Appalayakunta                2.00       10.00
Puttur            Kodandaramnapuram to Tirumalarjapalem                          1.50       5.00
Satyavedu         Rallakuppam - Aroor road                                       5.00       20.00
Srikalahasti      Srikalahasti - Melacheruvu - Muchivolu road                    5.00       25.00
Thamballapalle    Kothakota, Bathalapuram road                                   3.00       15.00
Tirupathi         PN road to Krishnapuram via SVU Puram                          3.00       15.00
Vayalpadu         Tarigonda to Sarimadugu via Rampuram                           2.50       15.00
Vayalpadu         Kalakada, Gurrarnkonda road via Papireddipalle and Singannadoddi  4.00    20.00
Vepanjeri         Chittoor - Tirupathi road to Ramapuram via AL Puram            4.00       20.00
TOTAL                                                                           59.00      300.00
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



7
Table2a- Proposals for Roads Component (PanchayatiR j Department)
Constituency       Description of Work                                          Length    Amount
Km         Rs
Cuddapah
Badvel             NBB road to CP road via Nandipalli via Balayapalli, Kothacheruvu  5.00   20.00
Badvel             Kolasapadu to Gopavaramn Palli Chennupalli via Pullareddypalli and  4.00  25.00
Rajupalem
Cuddaph            RTC bus stand to Rajampeta road                               5.00       25.00
Jamnmalamadugu     Mylavaram to Vaddimala road                                   10.00      30.00
Kamalapuram        Potladurthy to Kamalapuram via Kokadam                        5.00       25.00
Koduru             Chitvel to Garuguppa via Pollepalli                           5.00       25.00
L.R. Palli         L.R. Palli Ramapuram road to Dudekulapalli                    5.00       25.00
Mydukur            Badvel - B. Matham road to Gadlaveedu                         5.00       25.00
Proddaturu         formation of road from NBB road passing via Vivekananda Nagar  5.00      25.00
Colony Bhagat Singh Colony, Viarat Nagar join Jammalamadugu
road
Pulivendula        Tallapalli to Giddangivanipalli                               4.00       25.00
Rajampet           V. V. road to Pothapi Gattumeedapalli via Kumpinipuram        5.00       20.00
Rayachoti          Rayachoti - Sundupall road at Anupalle cross via Anupalle HW to  4.00    30.00
Rajampet-Rayachoti road
TOTAL                                                                           62.00      300.00
East Godavari
Alamuru            Dwarapudi to Peraramachandrapuram                             3.00       15.00
Allavaram          Komaragiripatmam to Samanthakurnu Ferry road                  3.00       15.00
Amalapuramn        Amalapuram to Ainavalli (via) Nedunur                         3.00       15.00
Aneparthi          approaches to bridge at Pulagurtha                            3.00       15.00
Burugupudi         C/0 causeway on the RIF Sreerangapatnam to Lkoli                         30.00
Jaggaznpeta        Ring road from Somavaram via Narendrapatnam, Kandregula,      3.50       15.00
Jaggampeta
Kadiam             Inpts. R/F Diwancheruvu to Seetharampuram                     3.00       15.00
Kothapet           Kothapeta to Ravulapalem Chithiram Rallagaddi, Vedireswaram   3.00       15.00
Mummidivaram       FP bridge near Bhiravapalem                                              55.00
Mummidivaram       Gatchakayalpora to Kothapalem via Chipyal                     5.00       25.00
Nagaram            Luthukur to K. Pasarlapudilanka                               6.00       30.00
Peddapuram         C/O bridge across Yeleru to Turupupakalu                                 40.00
Pithapuram         BT to Pithapuram Garasa road                                  2.50       20.00
Pithapuram         RIF Pithapuram - LN Puram - Divili                            4.00       20.00
Prathipadu         C/0 under Vent road dam on Yeluru river on Appanapalem road              30.00
Ramachandrapuram   Inpts. to RIF KNF road to YD road (via) Bhimacrosupalem       3.00       12.00
Razole             Kesanapalli to Kesavadasupalem via Sankaraguptam              3.50       12.00
Sampara            C/0 bridge across Kakinada canal at Adadanirevu of Sehapuram             25.00
Tallarevu          C/0 bridge on Injaram canal on the R/F Lachipalem to Pallipalem          20.00
Tallarevu          RIF Tallarevu Bhiravapalem road Prathigondi via Gadimogga     4.00       25.00
Tuni               Reconstruction of bridge at allipudi                                     40.00
Tuni               R/F P.Agraharam to Tetagunta via Timmapuram                   4.60       25.00
Yellavaram         CDR to the R/F Devipatam to Manturu                           3.00       11.00
Yellavaram         R&B road Bhupatipalem to Vadapalli                            4.00       25.00
TOTAL                                                                           61.10      550.00
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



8
Table2a- Proposals for Roads Component (Panchayati Raj Department)
Constituency      Description of Work                                          Length    Amount
Km         Rs
Karimnagar
Buggaram          R/F Maddunur to Rayapatnam                                    5.00      18.00
Jagityal          R/F PWD road to Pegadapalli via Bibirajapalli, Raghavapatnam,  4.00     25.00
Suddapalli & Bathikapalli
Huzurabad         Kothakonda to Sripathipalli cross road via Mallaram, Katkur,  4.00      30.00
Kannaram
Indurthy          BT to RIF Duddenapally to Bommanapalli - Sundaragiri road     4.50      25.00
Jagityal          C/O Bridge on R/F Pudur to Gourapur                                     40.00
Kamalapur         R/F Janunikunta to Karmur via Ankusapur                       4.00      20.00
Karimnagar        R/F Gangipalli to Pachnur via Maddikunta, Kandapalakula       5.00      20.00
Maidaram          RIF Anthargoan to Cheggam via Murmurkottala                   4.00      25.00
Manthani          R/F Manthani to meet Khammamnpalli PWD road via Suraipalli,   5.00      25.00
Kakarapalli, Ramkistapur & Seetampet
Metpalli          R/F Ghambirpur (V) to Rajalingampet                           4.20      20.00
Neralla           R/F Padira to Tangellapalli, Ramalachakkapet, Gandilachakkapet  4.00    20.00
Peddapalli        Kolanur rly. stn. to odela via Haripuram                      2.00      10.00
Peddapalli        Upparapalli Harijana Wada to Kothapalli rly. stn.             2.00      10.00
Choppadandi       Gollapalli to Muddanur via Venugumatla                        5.00      25.00
Sircilla          RJF Sircilla to Marrimadala via Konaraopet, Nimmapally        5.00      25.00
TOTAL                                                                          57.70     338.00
Khammam
Bhadrachalam      BT R/F Chintoor to V.R. Puram                                 7.00      35.00
Burgarnpahad      BT R/F Reddigudem X road to Velairpad                         6.00      35.00
Khanmmam          BT R/F Chintakani to Nagulavancha via Patharlapadu            6.00      35.00
Kothagudem        BT R/P Abbugudem to Annapureddipally via Marrigudem           6.50      35.00
Madhira           BT R/F PWD road at Siripuram to Nemali                        6.00      35.00
Palair            BT surface to R/F Nelakondapalli to Chennaram via Mandrajupalli,  7.20  35.00
Kothuru, Bodulabanda
Sathupalli        BT RIF Jaggaram to Ootlapalli via Chennuvarigudem,            6.80      35.00
Kodisalagudem, Anakampalem, Kothuru, Parakalagandhi, P.
Gollagudem, Malkara, Jainuigudem
Sathupalli        BT to R/F Utlapally to Varayanapuram via Nallabadu,           6.00      30.00
Vedantapuram, Vadaddugudem, Panduvarigudem, Ananthavaram,
Gundlagudem
Sujathanagar      BT R/F Pathalingala to Thallagudem                            6.00      35.00
Yellandu          BT R/F Yellandu Kothagudem PWD rd to Bayyaram 'X'rd via       30.00     90.00
Anisettypalli, Sampathnagar, Allapalli, Markodu, Karakagudem &
Pinapaka
TOTAL                                                                          87.50     400.00
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



9
:p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:  0    0 Taible2a- Pirofposals for Roads $Compofnent (Pauchayati -ila  Deprtuient)    ; ; ; 
Constituency      Description of Work                                          Length    Amount
Km         Rs
Kurnool
Adoni             Adoni - Yermniganur road to nettekal                          3.00      10.00
Allagadda         R/F old bus stand to NH18(,Allagadda                          3.00      10.00
Alur              CD works for RIF Rarnadurgam to Mallikharjunapalli            4.00      10.00
Atmakur           Venkatapuram to Siddapuram                                    4.00      10.00
Dhone             RIF Katarikonda famine road to Chanugondla                    3.00      10.00
Kodumuru          Chinnatekurm to Nagalapuram via Bastipadu                     2.00      10.00
Koilakuntla       BT to RIF Akumalla to Sunkesula                               2.00      10.00
Kurnool           C/O causeway across Hundri river at Old Kallur                          10.00
Nandikotkuru      Pagidyala to Sankirenipalli via Beeravolu                     2.20      10.00
Nandyal           Jutur to Narayanapur                                          4.00      10.00
Panyam            Yaganti to Maddileti Swami road                               2.50      10.00
Pathikonda        Jonnagiri to Pendekal (R.S.)                                  5.00      10.00
Yenmiganur        Kosigi - Urukonda road via Jutnaladinne                       4.00      10.00
TOTAL                                                                          38.70     130.00
Medak
Andole            Road from Sangupet PWD road to Pocharam (via) Mudimanikyam    8.00      40.00
Dornmat           Lingapally to Bhoompally via Rudraram, Mallaipally            7.00      36.00
Gaiwel            Causeway between Valtoor and Mallapur                                   40.00
Medak             Road from PWD road to Edupayalu via Nagasanpaly               6.00      30.00
Narayanakhed      Reinatalling and BT surface on RIF Masanpally Nallavagu PWD rd  6.50    36.00
to Pochapur via Indranagar Mardi Khanapur, Bibipet and Khajapur
Narsapur          Road from Reddypally to Govindarajpally                       6.50      36.00
Ramayampet        Road from Siddipet PWD road to Rampur (via) Chelmeda, Naskal  6.00      32.00
Sangareddy        Metalling & BT R/F NH9 to Mahatabkhanguda via Mallepally,     6.00      36.00
Gollapally, Munidevunpally
Siddipet          Karinagar District border to Dubbak via Rajiakkapet, Chellapur  8.00    40.00
Zaheerabad        Digwal to Jeeralapally, via Edulapally                        6.00      36.00
TOTAL                                                                          60.00     362.00
Nellore
Allur             BT to the R/F RL road to Allur via Indupur, Purini and Gogulapalli  4.00  15.00
Atinakur          BT to the R/F Bodipadu to Podalakursangm vi Navoor            4.00      15.00
Guduru            BT to the R/F Kondagunta to Nemuru via Vedicherla             3.50      15.00
Kavali            BT to the R/F KP road to Peddavaram via Chalamcherla          4.00      15.00
Kovur             BT to the R/F Dandigunta to Veerareddypalem                   3.00      15.00
Nellore           BT to the app. road to Teluguganga rehabilitation colony via  3.00      15.00
Sramikanagar of Kotguru Nellore BIT
Rapur             BT to the R/F NPS Road to Kattubadipalli via Malichedu, Kalichedu  4.50  15.00
and Devaravemuru
Sullurupet        BT to the R/F MC road to MC road via Kattuva, Maxnbattu,      4.00      15.00
Vendulurupadu & Kadalur
Sullurupet        Providing BT to the RIF N.D. road to Tanamala via Yakasiri and  6.00    35.00
Gannangi Dibba
Survepalli        BT to the RIF Dhanalakshmipuram to Chintareddypalein          4.00      15.00
Udayagiri         BT to the RIF DG Peta road to Zpolamaripalli via Gandhamvaripalli,    5.00  15.00
Maraniredupalli
Venkatagiri       Kadagunta to Paluru                                           4.00      15.00
TOTAL                                                                          49.00     200.00
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



10
Table2a- Proposals for Roads Componenti(Panchayati Raj Department)
Constituency      Description of Work                                         Length    Amount
Km        Rs
Prakasam
Addanki           R/E Tallur to Kunkupadu                                      4.00      20.00
Chirala           S.R. to R/F Jandrapeta Katarivaripalem via Akkayyapapalem    4.50      25.00
Cumbum            BT to R/F Chinnamanagundam to Garladinne road via Nagampalli  4.00     20.00
(K.K. Mitta road)
Darsi             Donakonda to Chandavaram                                     5.00      25.00
Darsi             Donakonda to Indlachervu                                     3.00      15.00
Darsi             Donakonda to Kurichedu                                       3.00      15.00
Giddalur          BT to R/F Idimakal to Reddicherla                            4.00      20.00
Kandukur          BT to RIF KGT road to KPN road via Rallapadu, Darakanipadu, SR.  3.80  25.00
Puram
Kanigiri          R/F Peddalavapadu to Botlagudur                              3.50      25.00
Kondepi           R/F OV road to Juvvigunta via Chennipadu                     4.00      25.00
Markapur          R/F Y. Palem to Ganjivaripalem                               4.00      20.00
Martur            RIF Pasumarru to Nuthalapadu in Pasunarru limits             3.00      25.00
Ongole            RIP Koppole to Motumala                                      4.00      25.00
Parchur           R/F Inkollu to Santamagulur via Gollapalem                   4.00      20.00
Santanutalapadu    BT to RIF Ramachandrapuram to Sivarampuram 3/0 to 9/2 km.   4.00      20.00
TOTAL                                                                         57.80     325.00
RangaReddy
Chevella          C/0 bridge on RIF PWD road to Poddatur                                 30.00
Ibrahimpatnam     C/0 bridge on R/F mall to Manthani Gowrelli                            20.00
Ibrahimpatnamn    Remetalling on R/F Mangallapalli to Tukkuguda via Kongarkalan,  8.00   25.00
Kongaraviriyal
Medchal           C/0 Bridge on ZP road from Pratapsingaram to Gowrelli                  50.00
Medchal           RIF Basavapur to T. Bollaram via Munirabad Ravalkole         6.00      18.00
Medchal           Remetalling & BT on R/F Nagaraoguda PWD road to Marneguda via   20.00  50.00
Regadi, Doswada & Kadmoor (Including C/0 CD works)
Tandur            C/0 LL causeway on R/F Yalal PWD road to Viswanathapur                 50.00
Vikarabad         R/F Vikarabad to Dharoor rly. stn.                           12.00     50.00
TOTAL                                                                         51.00     313.00
Warangal
Chennur           Kachikal to Nemali limits                                    5.00      15.00
Cherial           Maddur to Byrnapalli                                         4.50      25.00
Domakal           Mogilicherla to Kurvi                                        4.20      20.00
Ghanpur           Dharmasagar to Velair via Saipet, Mallikudurla, Sudeshpally  4.80      40.00
Hanamkonda        Bhairanpalli to Bucherlas via Pegadapalli and Sitanagaram    4.00      20.00
Jangaon           Nellutla to Nancharimadur                                    5.00      20.00
Mahabubabad       R/F Mahabubabad to Tallapusapalli via Annaram                3.00      15.00
Mulug             Devanagar to Mallareddypally                                 4.00      20.00
Narsampet         Pappiahpet to Ayodhyapuram via Boijero Ponugodu              4.50      15.00
Parkal            Chelpur PWD road to Neredpalli via Kompalli, Gudipalli,      4.00      20.00
Gorlaveedu
Shayampet         Kamaram to ESI Hospital via Peddapur, Akkapur, Gorrekota     4.90      25.00
Wardhannapet      Tirunialayapalli PWD Road to Kolampalli via Kondur           5.00      15.00
TOTAL                                                                         57.90      15.00
AP Hazard Mit4gation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



11
:: Ta'ble2a-oposab for Roads Component 2 ProtiRatj" Detment)
Constituency      Description of Work                                          Length    Amount
Km         Rs
West Godavari
Achanta           Poduru to Gunmnuluru via Pydava                               2.00       9.00
Attili            Causeway across YanamadurTu Drain at Komara                              9.00
Bhimavaram        B.P. road to P.P. road via K. Annavaram                       3.00       9.00
Chintalapudi      Yendalli to Malleswaran up to Telengana border                2.50      15.00
Denduluru         D.P. road to EGK road via Malakacherla                        2.80       9.00
Eluru             K. Durgapuram to Pydichintapadu via Gudivakalanka &           3.00       9.00
Prathikollanka
Gopalapuram       Reconstruction to Jagannadhapuram via Guddigudem in           3.00       9.00
Gopalapurarn
Kovvuru           AGRB Road to Annadevarapeta via Ballipadu                     3.80       9.00
Narasapuram       Kalipatnam to Pathapadu                                       2.80       9.00
Penugonda         Mukkamala to Vadala via Malleswarain, Pittalavemavarazn       2.50       9.00
Polavararn        Dippakayalapadu to V. Bothappagudem                           3.00       9.00
Palakol           Veeravasaram to Matyapuri                                     3.20       9.00
Tadepalligudem    Kunchanpally to Madavaran Road                                3.00       9.00
Tanuku            Duvva to Arulla                                               2.80       9.00
Undi              Kalavadupi - Ganapavaran R&B road to Kollaparu                2.80       9.00
Unguturu          D. Tinunala to P. Riavaram                                    3.00       9.00
TOTAL                                                                          43.20     150.00
Table 2b - Sum ar ~fP            osals (Panchayati)Ra ~Dprt             )
SI.   Name of District         Bridges                                            Total
No                                               Roads                        (Rs in Lakhs)
No    Cost    No.  Length (kln)        Cost      No.        Cost
I   Adilabad                5    227.00     5       33.00        173.00      10       400.00
2   Ananthapur              -       -       14      68.20        400.00       14      400.00
3   Chittoor                -      -        17      59.00        300.00      17       300.00
4   Cuddapah                -       -       12      62.00        300.00       12       300.00
5   East Godavari           7    170.00    17       66.10        380.00      24       550.00
6   Karimnagar              1    40.00      14      57.70        298.00       15      338.00
7   Khammam                 -       -       10      87.50        400.00      10       400.00
8   Kurnool                 2     20.00     11      38.70        110.00       13       130.00
9   Medak                   1    40.00      9       60.00        322.00      10       362.00
10  Nellore                 -       -       12      49.00        200.00       12       200.00
11  Prakasam                -       -       15      57.80        325.00       15       325.00
12  Rangareddy              4    150.00      5       51.00        163.00      9        313.00
13  Warangal                -       -       13       57.90       270.00       13       270.00
14  West Godavari           1      9.00     15      43.20         141.00      16       150.00
TOTAL                  21   656.00   169       791.10       3781.00     1910    4,43R.0
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 7: Roads and Bridges



Attachment 8
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
MITIGATION WORKS
Sub-Component 1: Tree Shelter Belts
OBJECTIVES
1.    The main objectives of this sub-component are to: (i) increase protection of life and
property from the cyclonic storms, gales and tidal waves; (ii) increase protection from deposition of
sand and salt brought in by the high wind speeds; (iii) stabilize sand dunes from shifting and of
water course embankments; (iv) prevent floods and consolidate river banks and canal bunds; (v)
increase the area under tree cover, thereby creating better environmental conditions along coastal
zones; (vi) make fuel, fodder and construction materials available to the people; and (vii) improve
the social and economic conditions of coastal residents.
PLAN OF ACTIVITIES
2.    The following strategies are proposed: (i) raising shelter belt plantations in R.F. and
government lands; (ii) replanting of Casuarina fields damaged during the November 1996 cyclone;
(iii) raising mangrove plantations; (iv) raising seedlings for distribution to the local communities;
(v) production of genetically superior clonal seedlings of Casuarina; and (vi) public information
and extension (See Table I below for district-wise targets of each strategy). To ensure the
sustainability of this mitigation measure, local communities will be involved and awareness will be
created with respect of the need to manage and protect these plantations. The notion of 'Joint
Forest Management' with the local people will be adopted in the raising and maintenance of shelter
belt plantations.
Table I - District-wise Targets of Proposed Strategies
District        Raising of Casuarina    Raising of Nurseries    Raising of Mangrove
Plantations (ha)     for Distribution      Plantations (ha)
(lakhs)
Srikakulam                   750                  317.10
Vizianagarain                300                  45.50
Visakapatnam                 300                  224.20
East Godavari                1000                 291.40                 120
West Godavari                 _                   45.40
Krishna                      250                  135.00                 300
Guntur                       750                  67.80                 100
Prakasam                      150                 67.80
Nellore                      300                  314.20
TOTAL                        3800                1508.40                520



2
SCOPE
3.     Since the maximum mitigative benefits can only be achieved if the shelter belts are
extended all along the coast, implementation of this component is proposed for the 74 coastal
mandals of Srikakulam, Vizayanagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari,
Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore.
PROPOSED PROJECT ACTIVITIES
4.     Raising shelter belt plantations in R.F and government lands. The Forest Department
has been raising plantations of Casuarina equisitifolia since 1977. These plantations are on
revenue lands handed over to the department and on reserved forest lands. There are wide gaps in
the shelter belt plantations, due to segments of government and privately-owned lands without any
tree cover. The government lands can easily be planted to diminish the gaps.
5.     Some of the existing plantations have matured and are becoming old. To be effective as
shelter belts, the trees need to be kept fit and healthy through periodic culling and replanting, which
helps the shelter belt and increases State revenues. Mature trees also need to be harvested to avoid
pilfering. It is proposed to harvest mature plantations in a phased manner and replant the felled
areas with Casuarina. The felling of these plantations will be planned in a way that whenever the
harvest is taken up, a mature crop (over four-years old) will be left standing to perform the
function of a shelter belt. Planting will be done at two meters by two meters intervals in all the
forest and government lands.
6.     Replanting of shelter belt plantations damaged during the November 1996 Cyclone.
During the recent cyclone, Casuarina plantations covering about 800 ha and distributed in four
series of Kandikuppa area planted from 1984 to 1995 in East Godavari were completely damaged.
These plantations absorbed the shock of the cyclonic storm and protected the population and
infrastructure in their immediate hinterland, while experiencing damage that resulted in a high
number of broken crowns and branches, and uprooted trees. Harvesting of these plantations is
taking place under the responsibility of the Forest Department. These plantations need to be
replanted immediately to raise the shelter belt again. Replanting will be done with Casuarina, by
working on 400 ha during 1997 and the other 400 ha during the 1998 planting season. For this
activity, traditional planting techniques used by the Forest Department for this species will be
followed.
7.     Raising of mangrove plantations. Mangrove forests form an important, delicate and
dynamic ecosystem in the shore area, principally in the inter-tidal zones laying along sheltered
shores, estuaries, tidal creeks, back waters, fringing reefs, salt marshes and coastal mud flats.
Mangroves are also effective shelter belts against the effects of cyclones. They contain, however, a
highly specialized and sensitive community of plant species and associated fauna which cannot
survive under different conditions. Mangroves suffer from heavy biotic pressure due to gazing and
pilferage of fuel wood and small timber. Consequently, they have been disappearing rapidly. It is
intended to plant all the available and suitable areas along the coast with mangrove plantations.
8.     Beneficiary oriented nursery programs. To guarantee the sustainability of the activity,
people need to be encouraged to grow trees in their own lands. It is proposed to raise and
distribute free of charge a large number of fodder, fuel and small seedlings to the people, so that
they can increase the tree cover of their farmland and around their houses. High value fruit
seedlings such as cashew and coconut (up to 15 plants) will be made available to the farmers living
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 8: Mitigation Works



3
within the 500 meters zone, which will also help improve their economic situation. In general,
planting of coconut will be encouraged around the field bunds and selected community centers.
9.      To take up afforestation on a large scale, a significant number of seedlings will have to be
raised. It is proposed to raise nurseries of fodder, small timber, cashew and coconut seedlings with
help from the beneficiaries. The beneficiary-oriented nursery program will be developed similarly
to the rural employment programs. Each beneficiary will have to raise 25,000 bag plants and
100,000 naked seedlings. The beneficiary will be provided by the Forest Department with bags,
soil mixture and planting material or seed. For their effort, beneficiaries will be paid Rs 1,000
p.m. during the seven-month nursery period (February to August). At the end of the work,
beneficiaries will be paid the difference between the estimated cost - according to estimates
prepared for the individual requirements stated above - and the money already paid, plus a bonus
of three paise for every bag plant and 0.5 paise for every naked seedling produced. The goal is to
raise 100,000 bag plants and 500,000 naked seedlings annually through the beneficiaries in each
coastal mandal. Fifty thousand coconut seedlings per district will also be raised annually through
beneficiaries for distribution to the public in coastal mandals.
10.    Production of genetically superior clonal seedlings. The Forest Department has
identified genetically superior clones of Casuarina equisitifolia with higher yield of fuel wood,
timber and crown formation. It is proposed to raise these clonal seedlings in large numbers and
supply the farmers for planting in their lands. Given the technical nature of this activity, it will be
fully undertaken by the department. The goal is to raise 400,000 seedlings annually.
11.    Information dissemination and extension. It is of utmost relevance to develop tree
plantation as a viable and attractive economic alternative. Efforts will be made to educate people
through information dissemination campaigns, audio-visual aids, seminars, workshops, field visits
and training programs. The supervisory staff will be trained to meet the demands of this
challenging scheme. Circulation of literature and information, visit to successful sites and
exchange of experiences among members of different communities will be the cornerstone of the
program. Extension through schools, adult education centers and voluntary organizations will also
be taken up. Special efforts will be made to ensure women's participation, using the existing
women's thrift and credit institutions as entry points.
PROJECT COSTS
12.    Project costs are estimated at Rs100 million. The plantations raised under this scheme will
have to be maintained until the year 2001/2002. See Table 2 below for more detailed information.
Table 2 - Summary of Tree Shelter Belt Component
Strategies Proposed                                            Total Amount        Total Cost
(Rs in Lakhs)
(a) Raisig of casuarna Plantations                                3,800 ha           377.05
.. .. .. ..... ... ......... .............................  I................. ...............................I...........................................   ....I......................................  ............ ..................................... :
(?asnof Mangrove Plantations                                  520 ha            105.50
(c) Raising of Distribution Nurseries (in lakhs)                1628.46 lakhs        505.45
Bagged Seedlings            160.10
Bare Root Causarina Seedlings 1340.00
Clonal Seedlings           120.00
coconut Seedlinygs  ...       8.36
Pd ublicity and Extension                                           1                12.0
TOTAL COST                                                                           1,000
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 8: Mitigation Works



4
Sub-Component 2: Cyclone Shelters
OBJECTIVES
13.   The main objectives proposed are: (i) make an adequate provision through community
shelters and associated spaces/structure to save human lives and livestock, ensure their sustenance
during a disaster, and safeguard basic assets need by people to survive after the disaster; and (ii)
bring deteriorated or damaged shelters to adequate levels of structural safety and functional use by
repairing them to enhanced standards whenever necessary.
STRATEGY
14.    The strategies proposed are:
a) to conduct an appraisal of the viability of cyclone shelters as an emergency response measure
as opposed to evacuation or strengthening of existing public and/or private buildings.
b) to identify critical settlements based on district wise hazard mapping and focus on the repair,
upgrade or new construction of shelters in high risk zones.
c) to construct all new shelters as school buildings to ensure its adequate upkeep.
d) to redesign shelters in storm surge risk zones and appraise the effectiveness of existing shelters
in the event of a storm surge.
e) to appraise the status of other existing public buildings in vulnerable settlements which may be
strengthened to serve as emergency shelters.
f) to appraise the adequacy of shelter location with respect to the settlement pattern and
community characteristics of high risk habitations.
PERFORMANCE SPECIFICATIONS
15.   In low surge areas, where the tides vary from one to two meters, the shelters will be
located on higher lands and will have a raised plinth. Options for high surge areas are being
investigated. In these areas the shelter shall have an RCC framed structure, using concrete of
strength not less than M20 with increased cover thickness. The building will be designed for a
heavy cyclonic wind velocity of 250 kmh, in addition to the dead and live loads recommended by
the National Building Code (NBC). Experiences from other countries prone to storm surges will
be analyzed as part of the process to identify the appropriate structural design for emergency
shelters in areas of AP facing similar vulnerable conditions.
MAINTENANCE
16.    The District collectors will be responsible for putting shelters to use as schools or other
community purposes during normal times. Under the Janmabhoomi program, local communities
have assumed the responsibility of maintaining public buildings such as schools, primary health
centers, dispensaries, etc. Shelters that are also schools will be covered by this program, thereby
ensuring that they will be properly maintained.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 8: Mitigation Works



5
PROPOSALS
17.    Construction of cyclone shelters would be taken up across the nine coastal districts, giving
priority to villages close to the shore with few permanent buildings. Three types of shelter design
have been used in AP: circular, "L" shape and rectangular. The "L" shape design was found to
be the most suitable, and was used during the CERP. New cyclone shelters are proposed to be
constructed in Prakasam, Nellore, Khamman, and East and West Godavari, at an estimated cost of
Rs900,000 (see Table 1 below for total cost of the cyclone shelter component). Construction
activity will be undertaken by the Panchayati Raj Department, while future maintenance will be the
responsibility of the respective district.
Table 1 - Total Cost of Cyclone Shelters Component
District                         Number of Shelters             Cost (in lakhs)
Prakasam                                 11                          99
Nellore                                  10                          90
Khamrmam                                 6                           54
East Godavari                            43                          386
West Godavari                            21                          189
TOTAL                                   91                           819
Sub-Component 3: Watershed Management
BACKGROUND
18.    The concept of combating drought was initiated by the GOI in 1971. The main objective
of the program was restoration of ecological balance through an integrated development on a
watershed basis. Initially, it was a sectoral program and it had its own shortcomings. However,
the Watershed Development Program has undergone many refinements over this period.
19.    The Drought Prone Area Program was introduced in Andhra Pradesh in 1975, in 69
erstwhile blocks, in 8 districts. The program was extended to I 1I1 blocks covering 12 districts in
1995. A major change in the approach of the Watershed Management Program was introduced in
1995-96 by focusing the Watershed Program on population participation. Under this approach,
total emphasis surrounds organizing the village community of each watershed into a viable
sustained unit. The watershed beneficiaries both directly and indirectly dependent on the watershed
will be grouped into the Watershed Associations with one of the members as the President of the
Association.
20.   In addition to the Watershed Association, an executive body called a Watershed
Committee will be formed to implement the day-to-day activities of the Watershed Development
Program. The members of the Watershed Committee will be nominated by the Watershed
Association. Each Watershed Committee will consist of 11 to 12 members from different sections
of beneficiaries, including women.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 8: Mitigation Works



6
21.    An intermediate body called a Project Implementing Agency (PIA) will be in charge of
about 10 Watersheds of 500 ha. each. These PlAs will preferably be selected from Non-
Governmental Organizations/Voluntary Organizations with sufficient experience in rural
development programs. These PIAs will help guide the Watershed Committees and Watershed
Associations. Each PIA will necessarily have a teamn of experts in Agriculture, Forestry, Minor
Irrigation and Social Services.
22.    At district level, the District Rural Development Agency is the model agency for the
implementation of the programs. It will be assisted by a multi-disciplinary team, consisting of
subject matter specialists in Agriculture, Forestry and Minor Irrigation Sectors to co-ordinate and
oversee the successful implementation of the program at district level.
FUNDING
23.    The funds related to the works component will be provided directly to the Watershed
Committees. Funds for administrative expenses will be retained at the DRDA/PIA level.
TRAINING
24.    One of the most important aspects of the program will be imparting training to all field
functionaries at the district level, the PIA level and all beneficiaries of watershed villages directly
or indirectly concemed with the program. Participatory rural appraisal will be adopted for the
implementation of the program.
25.    The project is proposed to be extended to one district in the Coastal Andhra Region, i.e.
Nellore, and two districts in Telangana, i.e. Karimnagar and Adilabad. Anantapur is classified as
a desert district by the Government of India and Desert Development Program in operation.
Serious water shortages are experienced in both districts for agriculture and drinking. Nellore, one
of the districts in coastal Andhra Pradesh, has maximum area under Wasteland category. The
Northern part of the district falls adjacent to the Rayalaseema districts and shares similar
geography, soil and climatic factors. There are serious limitations regarding the availability of
ground water.
26.    Chittoor, Karimnagar and Adilabad are covered with degraded forests in a major portion
of the region. Deforestation over a period of 3 decades has resulted in loss on catchment areas for
the Godavari basin in Karimnagar and Adilabad districts, hence water shortages are very common.
PROJECT PERIOD
27.    The estimated project period is three years, and is proposed to commence in July 1997.
Each watershed covers approximately 500 ha., which may be coterminous either to a village or one
or two villages. We anticipate the active participation of not only the state holders but also the
village community as mentioned above.
PROJECT COST
28.    Proposed cost for each watershed is Rs2O.00 lakhs. Per hectare cost is Rs4000/-. In the
first year it is proposed to spend Rs6.00 lakhs and in the second and third years Rs7.00 lakhs each.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 8: Mitigation Works



7
METHODOLOGY
29.   Watersheds will be selected by taking into consideration the water shortage based on
National Remote Sensing Agency/AP State Remote Sensing Agency studies coupled with
orientation and enthusiasm of the local people to take up watershed works. Planning, Project
Formulation, cost implementation, monitoring, and social audit will be taken up by actively
involving the local people.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 8: Mitigation Works



Attachment 9
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
D.AFT GAP PICY STATEMENT ON LONG-TERM HAZARDMITIGAION;
1.    The draft policy statement prepared by the GOAP on its long-term hazard reduction
strategy was reviewed during negotiations. Based on these discussions, the Bank and the GOAP
agreed on the principles that would be incorporated in the policy statement. It was agreed that the
revised policy statement will be published in the official Gazette during April 1997.
2.     The GOAP policy statement will incorporate the following:
(i) Objectives. Objectives of the proposed policy would be to: develop action plans, and a
planning and implementation framework for hazard reduction, and to reduce people's dependency
on govermment, and to encourage self sufficiency and responsible use of resources.
(ii) Needfor a new approach. In addition to the debilitating effects of continuous
disasters there are a number of factors that have prompted GOAP to rethink is policy. Among them
are: the inability of government to bear the continuing heavy cost of relief and rehabilitation; the
expectation of the public that government should assist them every time; legal and illegal economic
activities that exacerbate the impact from such events ( the denudation of forest cover; the impact
of aquaculture activities); inadequate coastal, delta, water and watershed management policies and
practices; inappropriate design criteria and construction practices for public and private
infrastructure and building construction in the high risk zones, lack of proper planning and
development control that contribute to vulnerability from natural hazards; and the unavailability of
appropriate insurance schemes for individual risk management
(iii) Work plan. In order to develop a long-term hazard reduction program, and achieve
the expected goals of such a program, it is necessary to do the following:
(a) Creation of a Disaster Mitigation Council, headed by the Chief Minister, to develop
policy and to oversee the development of long-term hazard reduction programs;
(b) Formation of a permanent Disaster Management Unit to manage the preparation of a
long-tern hazard reduction program, action plans and policy, planning and implementation
framework, and its policy implementation;
(c) Creation of District Disaster Management Committees;
(d) Creation of a Vulnerability Reduction Fund for helping communities to undertake
hazard reduction activities on a matching grant basis;
(e) Undertaking of hazard reduction studies: coastal and delta management studies;
watershed management studies; enhancing of GOI's early warning capability through
deployment of state of the art equipment; early waming and community awareness raising
programs; preparation of hazard maps for high risk zones; and developing design criteria
for high risk zones.
(f) Undertaking hazard mitigation works, such as watershed management in critically
water-starved areas, planting of tree shelter belts, and provision of emergency cyclone
shelters.



2
(iv) Outputs. Expected outcomes of the work plan are:
(a) a revised policy for long-term hazard reduction;
(b) planning and development control of economic activities, siting and construction of
new infrastructure in hazard-prone zones for reduction of future hazards;
(c) a design and building code for high risk areas;
(d) planning and development control framework for coastal, delta water and watershed
management;
(e) measures and incentives for communities to take responsibility for hazard management
in their communities; and
(f) insurance schemes for individuals to protect themselves against natural hazards.
(v) Completion. Schedule for preparation of hazard reduction program require the work
on the studies to commence at the end of 1997, with the expected date of completion in December
1999.
(vi) Public Participation. Methodology for informiing the public and solicitation of views
on emerging proposals must be developed. Periodic seminars and workshops; statutory mandated
public hearings of planning and development control proposals that represent the core framework
for participants.
(vii)  Implementing Agency. The preparatory studies and the development of action
plans and the framework for hazard management will be carried out by the Disaster Management
Unit in the Department of Finance and Planning, headed by the Secretary of Finance, GOAP.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 9: Draft GOAP Policy Statement on Hazard Mitigation



Attachment 10
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
THE AND)HRA PRADESII DISASTER MANAGEMENT UNIT
1.    The AP Disaster Management Unit (DMU), envisaged as a permanent nodal unit, will be
created in the Department of Finance and Planning, under the Secretary of Finance (see Figure 1:
Organizational Chart on page 5 of this attachment). The Unit will be headed by a full-time Project
Director who will be responsible for day-to-day operations. It will be responsible for overall
management and coordination of the project, inter-departmental coordination, environmental
screening and clearance of sub-projects, management of hazard reduction related consultant studies
and for planning and development of long-term hazard reduction action plans for the State. It will
also act as the secretariat for the Disaster Mitigation Council headed by the Chief Minister.
Initially, the Unit will have a skeletal staff and will retain specialists for specific tasks. It will be
staffed throughout the implementation period and its capacity built up to enable full management
of the hazard reduction programn, by the end of the project. The small core staff will include a
disaster management expert, a communications/public information expert, a transport engineer, an
environmental engineer and an irrigation engineer. Other experts will be contracted from
appropriate government departments and centers or from the private sector.
RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER UNITS, AGENCIES, INSTITUTES, AND DEPARTMENTS
2.    The DMU will use the services of the existing PMU in the Department of Finance and
Planning for procurement and disbursement functions and other agencies for specialized services.
It will collaborate with other centers, institutes and agencies - within the State and beyond -
engaging in similar or related activities. Following the principle established for the CERP, the
DMU will require each sector department to create disaster mitigation 'cells'. These cells will
provide technical consultation on and review of best loss reduction practices associated with
maintenance of existing infrastructure and qualification of new capital investment. The cells would
be specifically responsible for disaster loss reduction activities and will be located in the main
implementing departments such as the Forest Department, Roads and Building Department, Major
and Minor Irrigation Department, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Engineering
Department, and the APSEB. Senior specialists serving in the DMU will provide liaison with the
key departments, provide training and tools, and provide oversight for disaster management
programs initiated in each department. The DMU will also serve to provide accurate, consistent
data on damage in future disasters and to evaluate the effectiveness of loss reduction measures.
3.     The DMU will also work closely with other public agencies at the state, district, and local
levels to provide appropriate technical information, professional training, and public information
on disaster loss reduction. The existing relevant agencies of the Government of Andhra Pradesh
(GOAP) with which the Unit will have working relationships are:
(a) Andhra Pradesh Remote Sensing and Applications Center
(b) Commissioner for Relief
(c) Shore Area Development Authority
(d) Kolleru Development Authority
(e) Bureau of Economics and Statistics



2
(f) Center for Economic and Social Studies (CES)
(g) Andhra Pradesh Academy for Rural Development
4.     Relevant agencies of the Government of India (GOI) with which the DMU will have to
work are:
(h) National Center for Disaster Management of the Indian Institute of Public
Administration
(i) India Meteorological Department
(j) Central Water Commission
(k) Central Water and Power Research Station, Pune
(1) National Remote Sensing Agency (NRSA)
(m) Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI)
SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS
5      The functions of the DMU will include: hazard mapping, development of action plans for
hazard reduction, development of standards for siting design construction and maintenance. The
DMU will develop programs for hazard loss reduction including inspection of facilities,
certification of compliance with hazard mitigation standards, provide environmental clearances,
and create the incentive schemes to encourage appropriate reduction measures. In addition, The
Unit will provide technical and administrative support to the Andhra Pradesh Disaster Mitigation
Council, which is the policy level Cabinet committee headed by the Chief Minister.
6.     Furthermore, the DMU will serve as a point of contact with disaster management units in
other states (such as the Maharashtra Disaster Management Center at Yashada in Pune) and other
intemational centers of disaster management such as the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center
(ADPC) and various centers in the United States disaster response system.
7.     At the conclusion of this project, the DMU will become the authoritative source for
information on all phases and all aspects of disaster mitigation planning and implementation in
Andhra Pradesh. It will initiate and coordinate hazard management and vulnerability reduction
programs throughout the state. The DMU will utilize the resources of modern science and
engineering for the development of tools which will be useful at the local level in guiding decisions
to reduce future disaster losses of life and property.
8.    Job descriptions need to be developed for the key staff of the DMU. Sample job
descriptions for the Disaster Management Expert and the Communications Expert are given below:
9.     Position Description for Key Staff of the DMU:
(a) Hazard Management Specialist
Responsibilities: The Hazard Management Specialist will be principally in charge of the
development and dissemination of hazard maps, contraction standards, and materials
relevant to the reduction of future losses due to cyclone, wind, coastal flooding, and flash
flooding. The specialist will work in close cooperation with the scientists who apply the
flood and storm surge models to prepare useful hazard maps at appropriate scale and with
appropriate impact intensity scales for the hazard prone areas of Andhra Pradesh.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 10: Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Unit



3
The Hazard Management Specialist will specifically:
(i) work closely with the community of engineers, architects, builders, and public and
private developers who are responsible for the siting and design of human settlements and
facilities in the coastal zone and flood plains of Andhra Pradesh.
(ii) initiate and manage useful dialogue between the developers and the users of hazard
data and maps.
(iii) review specific design and construction standards on a regular basis to ensure that
they represent current scientific and engineering knowledge and to ensure that these are
socially acceptable and cost-effective. These reviews should be based on the advice of
nationally recognized specialists.
(iv) oversee the preparation of policy studies to inform government on key questions of
mitigation policy.
(v) work closely with the Communications and Community Participation Specialist to
prepare scientifically correct materials for broad public distribution on hazard awareness,
appropriate response to warnings, appropriate post-disaster actions, and most importantly
disaster mitigation measures which can be incorporated into normal day to day activities.
Qualifications: The Hazard Management Specialist requires a technical background in a
civil engineering, architecture, or planning field. The candidate should have at least a
Master's degree with some experience with research in the discipline. Ideally, the
candidates will have some experience of public service in an agency with land use planning
or construction responsibilities. The candidates should not have only a narrow technical
experience but must also be familiar with the social, economic, and political constraints
which influence public policy. Some training in social science or economics would be
desirable. Finally, the candidate will need excellent communication and interpersonal
skills as a significant component of this job will involve bringing together diverse
communities of expertise and application.
(b) Communications and Community Participation Specialist
Responsibilities: The Communications Specialist will manage the development of
information and training materials on hazard awareness, disaster preparedness and
response, and disaster mitigation for responsible officials at the local level and the general
public in hazard prone areas. This responsibility will include non-technical descriptions of
cyclones, floods, and storm surge phenomena and their relationship to disaster damage.
The Communications Specialist in conjunction with the Hazard Management Specialist
will develop a range of training programs on response to disaster warnings, disaster
preparedness and response related to protection of life and property and measure for future
disaster loss reduction. Training programs will be developed in conjunction with NAID
(?), Janrnabhoomi, and the Ministry of Education. The Communications Specialist will
furthermore be primarily responsible for the system of delivery of disaster (cyclone)
warnings. This warning function will require interaction with radio broadcasters, police,
the military, and other relevant communications resources. The Communications
Specialist will also oversee the establishment and expansion of a disaster communications
system consistent with the broader objective of enhanced, two-way communication with
the mandal and village level. Through this system and by any other means at hand, the
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 10: Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Unit



4
Communications Specialist will ensure availability and access to critical information
necessary for effective disaster loss reduction at the local level.
Qualifications: The Communications Specialist should have experience in both mass
communications media and local community participation in development oriented activity.
The candidate should have a Master's degree in a relevant academic field such as:
communications, journalism, community development, sociology, anthropology, or
education. The candidate should have adequate experience and professional stature to
interact effectively with the major organizations of mass communication in Andhra
Pradesh including radio, television and print media. The candidate should have experience
and understanding of the informal, traditional means of communication prevalent in the
effected populations. Furthermore, the candidate should be prepared to take a leading role
in the advancement and utilization of internet-based communications at the district and
mandal level. Finally, the candidate will require outstanding written and oral
communications skills. There must be facility in the translation of sometimes complex
technical concepts to lay language and an understanding of the social and political
dimensions of local decisions effecting property and land use.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment IO: Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Unit



5
Figure 1 -Organizational Chart
Special Chief Secretary,
Finance and Planning Department &
Development Commissioner
1
Secretary, Finance
PROCYA MNAGKEMENT UNIT  |
Additional Secretary                             Additional Project Manager
Procurement Monitoring                               Communications Expert
Additional Procurement
Monitoring Officer                              Disaster Management Expert
Deputy Financial Adviser                         Irrigation Department Engineer r
Section Officer
(Budget Claims
Accounts Audit)
I   Technical Research Cell
Assistant
Financial Adviser                    Engineering Staff
i       (4)
Assistant Accounts
Of ficer
Assistant Secretary       l
Note: The PML was established under the CERP. Under the present prajectit wilt render procurement .services in
voerdination with the WMU
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 10: Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management Unit



Attachment 11
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND THE JANMABHOOMI PROGRAM
BACKGROUND
1.    GOAP's experience has been invaluable in ensuring more effective disaster response, as
was evident in the aftermath of the November 1996 cyclone. Because of the availability of a
functioning relief capacity much loss of life was avoided, and speedy relief provided to the affected
areas. However, most of the resources mobilized to deal with the emergency were in the form of
cash hand outs and temporary measures to 'patch up' the damage and destruction suffered by the
infrastructure. While these relief measures are important, they can only address the effects rather
than the causes of most of the disaster losses.
2.    The November 1996 cyclone served to highlight the limitations of the existing maintenance
and repair capacity to cope with emerging circumstances which have intensified environmental
degradation and vulnerability to natural hazards. Physical infrastructure built many years ago was
not designed to cope with the excessive rainfall received in November. Additionally, neglect over
the years has resulted in increased deterioration. As a result many weakened irrigation bunds were
breached, resulting in widespread flooding. Inadequate maintenance over the years has also
resulted in many roads, drainage systems and irrigation canals which can hardly meet current
demands.
3.    The lack of maintenance is attributed to a variety of factors that would need to be targeted
if the effects of cyclones and other natural hazards are to be minimized if long-term sustainability
is to be enhanced. Failure to maintain the physical infrastructure has been mainly associated with a
decline of public funds available for this activity and the limited involvement of the local users in
the design and long-term maintenance of the infrastructure.
FROM DISASTER RELIEF TO LONG TERM SUSTAINABILITY
4.    Along with the physical rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure, it is necessary to focus
on a concerted effort to link rehabilitation to long-term mitigation plans which involve local
communities in more systematic way. If investments are intended to be more than short term
measures the approach to community development needs to be restructured. In particular,
rethinking on the following aspects of mitigation planning should be considered: (i) sustainability
of institutions; (ii) coordination and integration of activities; (iii) community involvement; and (iv)
government support.
5.    The institutions that underpin the construction of drains, canals, and roads need to be
strengthened; the organizations entrusted with their maintenance need to be rethought, and the
procedures governing citizen participation in their upkeep need to be overhauled. This implies the
development of an integrated approach to the provision of infrastructure which includes all the
stakeholders in the elaboration and development of sustainable options - both public and private,
governmental and non-governmental.
6.    Coordination of activities at a variety of levels is required - from sub-mandal micro-
planning and disaster-preparedness activities, to State-wide integrated planning which links the



2
relief operations of the State with longer term sustainable development strategies. This involves all
departments of government working in a more integrated manner to ensure that individual efforts
do not duplicate or compromise the efforts of others. Integration of activities would also require a
broader focus that would include not only the coastal zones and delta regions but also the
watersheds which feed into them. It is evident that environmental degradation upstream and
excessive run-off, coupled with restricted drainage facilities downstream, have exacerbated the
negative effects of excessive rain and cyclone damage to irrigation and drainage facilities and to
roads and physical infrastructure more generally.
7.     The rhetoric of integrated development, with citizens at the center of decision making, is
widespread. Translating that rhetoric into reality is difficult. There is evidence that indicates that
such an integrated approach is being developed in a variety of sectors - as for instance in forestry
or watershed management. There is a concerted attempt through the Prajala Vaddaku Paalana
(PVP) and Janmabhoomi programs to combine the traditions of self-help with the development of a
micro-planning capacity to design and execute small but significant interventions which enhance
self reliance and sustainability. Small check dams and afforestation programs reduce run off in
watersheds, periodic clearing of drains prevents waterlogging. But unless these particular one-off
events are seen as parts of a program which engages citizens in a concerted and sustained way they
are unlikely to succeed. The challenge is to shift the dominant view from one which focuses on the
construction of physical assets (or products) to one which emphasizes processes of which these
products are merely a means to an end.
8.     While it is recognized that citizens are unlikely to have the expertise to execute and
maintain large infrastructural investments, it is recognized that they do have a central role to play
in the 'grass roots' maintenance of physical assets that directly affect their lives. In a resource-poor
environment, the ability of government to respond to requests decreases and the responsibilities of
government itself are questioned. The entitlements of citizens are also being rethought as attitudes
to subsidies and support are renegotiated. Institutions of civil society (Community-based
organizations, as well as Non-Governmental Organizations) demand greater involvement in
decisions that affect people's lives. There is greater room for private sector involvement. There is a
significant restructuring of the ways in which resources are deployed and priorities negotiated.
TACKLING RISKS AND VULNERABILITY THROUGH STRENGTHENING COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION AT THE LOCAL LEVEL
9.     While the present proposal recognizes the importance of restoring assets lost or destroyed
as the result of a particular disaster, it also wishes to nurture the development of mechanisms that
can reduce the risks and vulnerabilities that are exposed by such disasters and thus help in their
long term mitigation. It will do this by strengthening and reorienting existing institutions at State,
District and Community levels.
10.   At the community level a program for enhancing the flow of information about the links
between disaster mitigation and the reduction of long term vulnerability will be developed for
integrated watershed management and forestry projects in vulnerable areas. A program for the
development of regular maintenance of minor drainage and canal maintenance will be developed to
build on existing mechanisms and to enhance citizen control over and involvement in water use in
the irrigated areas of the deltas of coastal Andhra and in public health and sanitation systems in
urban areas. The objective would be to make the reduction of vulnerability an integral part of
community level development activities. The aim of this component of the project is to associate
the execution of physical works more closely with the local contexts in which they are prioritized.
Dissociating them from such contexts ignores the processes associated with their identification as
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 11: Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



3
priorities, and the institutions responsible for their execution. More concerted efforts to
decentralize decision-making about investment priorities will be developed and incorporated into
district development plans.
11.    Focus on priority communities. Disasters invariably strike the most vulnerable in ways
which diminish their abilities to withstand further losses. The project will thus focus more
systematically on the incorporation of wider elements of civil society (CBOs, NGOs, the private
sector) into longer term disaster mitigation planning, and to marry such planning with the on-going
developmental activities at State, district and sub-district levels. The aim would be to enhance local
ownership of public assets, build up expertise, and strengthen existing institutions in the pursuit of
more sustainable development. There is evidence to indicate that some forms of economic activity
serve to exacerbate rather than reduce the risks of loss due to natural disasters, through enhanced
environmental degradation and a focus on unsustainable activities (over-exploitation of natural
resources which increase soil erosion, over-concentration on particular species is frequently at the
expense of bio-diversity).
12.    From the immediate to the long term. There is a need to disaggregate by event and
differentiate more systematically between those subject to particular risks before particular courses
of action can be delineated. First there are those affected by the current cyclone and the inmmediate
need to attend to their losses and reconstruct their livelihoods (those requiring immediate attention).
Secondly there are those who are evidently vulnerable to unnatural yet recurring disasters (those
requiring attention in the medium term, say one to three years). These include those affected by
flooding as well as those affected by drought as well as those occupying vulnerable locations - on
'objectionable' land for example. It is usually the marginal and poorest populations within the
community who are affected most severely and directly - those dry land farmers cultivating the
most marginal of lands, as well as those local people engaged in the riskiest forms of employment
in areas where lifeline services are the least adequate - fishermen for example. Thirdly there are
those activities which need to be incorporated as part of a long-term planning and mitigation
program. While all three are required, in the current project it is likely that only the first two sets of
priorities can be systematically addressed. However it is through the project that the foundations
for the third set of long term priorities might be built.
CURRENT ACTWIVTIES AIMED AT STRENGTHENING CITIZEN INVOLVEMENT AT THE
LOCAL LEVEL IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN THE STATE.
13.    There are a number of current interventions in the state aimed at building sustainable
development at the community level. These have been largely sector-driven with few cross-sectoral
synergies except where the District Administrations have sought to try and build them. There are
two Bank projects that are likely to provide a basis for strengthening community participation in
the State. They are the Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project, which has a growing focus on Joint
Forest Management, and the District Poverty Initiative Project currently under preparation in six
districts in the State (viz. Adilabad, Mahboobnagar, Srikakulam, Visianagram, Anantapur and
Chitoor).
14.    The Joint Forest Management component of the AP Forestry Project has been
strengthened following the recent mid-term review of the project. It is anticipated that 1600 Forest
Protection Committees will be formed under the auspices of the project. Joint Forest Management
is the development of a partnership between villagers and the Forestry Department for the
development of degraded forest land with the fruits of such upgradation shared equally between
villagers and the forest department. This is a major effort to involve those who derive their
livelihoods from forest products and to allow villagers to be centrally involved in the protection of
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment I 1. Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



4
forests. It is a major shift in the ways in which the Forestry Department has traditionally viewed
the villagers. Recognizing that they are unable to ensure forest protection without the help of
villagers, they are changing from being policemen of forests to facilitators in their sustainable
development.
15.    The District Poverty Initiative Project aims to identify, with the stakeholders at the
District level, the most marginal and vulnerable populations and target interventions towards them
in an integrated way. If disaster mitigation is perceived to be an attempt to achieve sustainability
by reducing vulnerability and risk to natural hazards, then the approach being adopted by the
project is closely allied to that being suggested by the Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone
Recovery Project. The District Poverty Initiative Project makes central use of Social Assessments
as an instrument for the involvement of local communities in defining their priorities. The work is
being carried out with the help of local NGOs and social sc ence research organizations in the
State. These Social Assessments will provide the template on which an integrated development
strategy for support of the most vulnerable will be built.
16.   Other government programs. Both projects build on more conventional interventions to
alleviate poverty and create development opportunities, such as the Integrated Rural Development
Program, the Drought Prone Areas Program, the Integrated Child Development Services Program,
the Employment Guarantee Scheme, the Weaker Section Housing Program, and the DWCRA
savings and credit program.
17.   Recent State initiatives. Additionally the current State government has placed
considerable emphasis on engaging the cooperation of citizens in government programs, in
enhancing self reliance and in village or neighborhood micro-planning activities. There is a
tradition of collective work for community projects (shramdan). The Prajala Vaddaku Paalana
(PVP) program ('Government at the doorstep of the People') was launched at the beginning of
November in 1995. Its aim was to link people's participation in the decision making process by
responding to people's needs and enhancing the accountability of government agents to the people.
Three rounds of the PVP Program were held in November and December of 1995 and in February
1996. These involved visits by representatives of the district administration to each settlement with
a population of more than 200. The results of the program were mixed but they provided important
opportunities for citizens to criticize government work, and to suggest ways in which they might
contribute to government efforts through 'shramadanam' activities. Two 'shramadanam' drives
were held in January and July of 1996
18.    Building on these efforts government launched the 'Janmabhoomi 'program at the
beginning of January 1997. This involved an intensive village outreach exercise held between 1st
and 8th of /January. It aimed to build on the PVP and 'shramadanam' initiatives, and is inspired by
the community development program ('Saemaul Undong') developed in South Korea in the 1970s.
The focus of the Janmabhoomi program is on participatory micro-planning as a basis for collective
prioritizing and for building the capacity of local level administrative capacity through the
Panchayati Raj system. Under this system many powers and responsibilities are to be devolved to
the Panchayat level. The government recognizes that:
"for social development to take place effectively and on a sustainable basis, close
involvement and participation of the people as well as planning and action at the
grassroots level is essential." I
Finance & Planning Department, GOAP, 'Prajala Vaddaku Paalana, Sramadanam & Micro-Level
Planning - Guifelines', December 17 1996, p. 2.
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 11: Community involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



5
19.    Development is perceived as more than the construction of civil works. Emphasis is placed
on strengthening the Panchayati Raj institutions which are seen as the:
"idealframeworkforformulation, planning and execution of the programs of
economic development and social justice, as they are ideal institutions for convergence,
integration, prioritization and coordination of the programs at the grass-roots level
for ensuring prompt and efficient delivery of the services to the beneficiaries. Active
participation of the people through the institution of Gram Sabhas (village assemblies) in
the set up would ensure transparency and accountability of the system and, therefore, the
Gram Sabhas should be strengthened " 2
20.    The content of the Janmabhoomi program focuses on ten basic minimum needs, the
seven defined in the 9th Five Year plan (e.g., safe drinking water, primary health care, primary
education, public housing assistance, basic nutrition through the midday meals program,
electrification of all settlements, and streanlining the Public Distribution System (PDS)) along
with growth and growth-related infrastructure, employment and social security. The program had
three basic components:
(a) PVP - obtaining representations from the people and indicating actions taken following
previous visits
(b) Shramadanam - with a focus on collective village and ward cleaning with a focus on
general cleanliness involving cleaning of drains, tackling water stagnation, repairs to
drinking water sources, garbage disposal as well as maintenance of trees
(c) Micro-planning - the collection of basic data about the settlements as sensitization of
villagers to the availability of government programs, followed by the development of an
action plan for the coming years (what can be immediately achieved and what is required
over a five year time period). Cooperation with all development agencies such as local
NGOs, village committees of one sort or another, in the achievement of these goals is
sought
21.   The January 1997 Janmabhoomi exercise provided a timely forum for initiating systematic
Vulnerability Assessments and understanding people's livelihood strategies, their priorities in
dealing with disaster-preparedness and their willingness to join with Government in overcoming the
threats of frequently recurring disasters. From this exercise a more systematic plan for priority
intervention can be drawn up. Priorities for immediate, medium and long term interventions can be
assessed with the people themselves. NGOs should be encouraged to be involved wherever they are
available and willing to link with the systematization of this intervention. The exercise reached
56,366 habitations of 200 persons or more and undertook 434,979 'sramadanam works' with an
approximate value of Rs. 49 million. Over 2,500,000 people are estimated to have been involved.
The exercise has generated a formidable data base on which future activities for village
development are to be based and has generated considerable local enthusiasm.
22.    Cross-sectoral community involvement. Proposals for physical infrastructural
investments under the project can be systematically linked to micro-level plans for rehabilitation
and disaster preparedness which can be perceived as continuities of the current direction. Emphasis
should be given to the rehabilitation of community assets and on attempts to obtain the systematic
involvement of local groups in this work. The focus for such plans will vary from the construction
of flood banks to wasteland development and more effective watershed management. Major
attention needs to be given to the formation of water user groups and to ensuring that they pay
2 op.cit. p. 3.
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 11: Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



6
systematic attention to disaster-preparedness in their on-going work. The aim would be to provide
cross-sectoral community involvement in a variety of sectorally determined programs wherever
possible. Matrix I (included at the end of this attachment) identifies the sectoral proposals and the
potential areas for greater community participation and cross sectoral interventions. A template for
a program for disaster mitigation/sustainable development can thus be developed at the community
level.
23.    Community involvement in regeneration offorest cover, and coastal zone shelter belt
consolidation. Part of the project proposal relates to the work of the Forestry Department in
regenerating denuded forest cover, and in consolidating the coastal zone forest belt. These activities
are not dealt with under the current AP Forestry Project being undertaken with Bank assistance.
There is considerable room in both the regeneration of forest cover, and in the consolidation of the
coastal forest belt for community participation on similar lines to those currently being dealt with
in the State under Joint Forest Management Schemes. These schemes involve the development of
Forest Protection Committees at the village level to jointly manage denuded forest areas around the
village and share in the products thus derived.
24.    Coastal Zone Shelter Belts. At least two of the seven objectives proposed are conducive
to greater community participation (e.g., making fuel, fodder and construction materials available
to the people, and improving the economic status and living conditions of the people.). It is noted
that seedlings will be distributed to the community, and that large numbers of fodder, fuel and
small seedlings will be raised and distributed to the people free of cost. It is assumed that the
beneficiaries will help in the development of seedling nurseries. Detailed proposals for rewarding
beneficiaries are given in the proposal. Efforts will also be made to educate people through mass
publicity, audio visual aids, seminars, workshops, field visits and training programs to get the
meaningful support of the people. Special efforts will be made to enlist women's participation and
the existing women's thrift and credit institutions may be used as entry points
25.    As noted in the Government's proposal the raising of shelter belts requires a good mix of
strategic interventions and tools. Rather than merely seeing local people as 'beneficiaries' of
department largesse it is perhaps more in the spirit of self reliance and sustainability to encourage
partnerships with local people to make them guardians of the forest cover in return for access to
forest products on a sustainable basis, and with the active support and facilitation of the Forest
Department. Through partnerships with people the department can build local support for the
development of forest cover and thereby avoid pilferage. Wherever possible, on new plantations as
well as on those being regenerated the active partnership of the local populations will be solicited
and arrangements made for local access to forest products. The principles underpinning the Joint
Forest Management schemes being developed elsewhere in the State should serve as a model for
these activities, and local responsibility for sustainable forest cover encouraged
26.    Watershed Management in Critically Water Starved Areas. The project proposal points
to a long history of excessive land use, through agriculture and animal husbandry which has
resulted in depletion of renewable natural resources (soil, water and forests). The objectives of this
part of the project are to restore degraded forest areas in order to meet the wants of local people
and with the willing cooperation of neighboring villagers, participatory management of forest
resources is envisaged. The following components are envisaged:
(i) raising of fuel, fruit, fibers and NTFPs;
(ii) reforestation and soil and moisture conservation work on barren hills;
(iii) seedling distribution and planting on marginal farm lands, field bunds and homesteads;
and
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 11: Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



7
(iv) publicity and extension work.
27.    There are multiple opportunities for the development of partnerships between the Forest
Department and the local people, considering that local users of the forests can become their best
guardians. The work of policing and regenerating degraded forest land can be shared by both sets
of stakeholders. Pilferage and smuggling by outsiders can thus be minimized and sustainable forest
development encouraging which will result in a decrease in run-off and of flash floods thereby
mitigating some of the effects of excessive rainfall.
28.    District Disaster Mangement Committtees (DDMC) for Natural Hazard/Vulnerability
Reduction. DDMCs will be developed at the District level to link vulnerability reduction/hazard
mitigation with environmental protection and wider development efforts proposed through the
evolving Janmabhoomi program. The State accepts that one of the aims of the Janmabhoomi
program is the reduction of vulnerability from natural hazards. The DDMC will consist of the Joint
Collector, the APSRAC representative, the concemed revenue officers, the CEO of the Zilla
Parishad and other officers involved in relief operations, in addition to the District Rural
Development Officer and Forest Officer. It will act as the nodal agency for: (i) disaster
preparedness; (ii) responding to particular disasters; (iii) recovery from particular disasters; and
(iv) mitigating the effects of natural hazards and reducing vulnerability.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS/AUDITS FOR INTEGRATED
MICRO-PLANNING FOR DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
29.    These will be the first stages in the development and implementation of a
hazard/vulnerability reduction strategy. These will provide, inter alia:
(i)    a social audit of vulnerability, and the bases for the development of indicators to measure
declining risk and vulnerability. (This will include a quality audit of existing provision);
(ii)   an analysis of the social capital and institutional capacity available in communities for
mobilizing community support for disaster mitigation;
(iii)   an inventory of organizations/institutions available at the localtmandal level to deal with
the 'up-stream' and 'down-stream' issues associated with Disaster-preparedness;
(iv)   an inventory of existing and proposed schemes that can be used as bases for short,
medium, and long-term rehabilitation;
(v)   the identification of 'focal points' in the local communities for disaster preparedness and
sustainable development;
(vi)  the bases for transforming local relief operations into longer term disaster-preparedness
and mitigation efforts;
(vii)  an understanding of the immediate human resources required in the District Administration
to address longer term development efforts;
(viii)  the basis for the development of educational and training efforts to address longer term
environmental improvement programs - environmental education linked to particular
prioritized sets of activities;
(ix)   the basis for commissioning of studies/action programs in particular priority districts with
the help of national and intemational institutions.
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment I1: Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



8
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PARTICIPATORY VULNERABILITY
ASSESSMENTS/AUDITS
30.    A Participatory Vulnerability Assessment (PVA)is a time-bound integrated set of activities
aimed at:
(i)    analyzing the causes of vulnerability;
(ii)   vulnerability mapping - identifying vulnerable groups, activities, areas within the
community with the community's own involvement through participatory appraisal
methods;
(iii)   contributing to the elaboration of a set of vulnerability priorities (short, medium and long
term) to be addressed;
(iv)   engaging all stakeholders in the process of participatory assessment;
(v)    reviewing the successes and failures of current programs;
(vi)   establishing criteria and methods for identifying vulnerable groups, activities and areas;
(vii)  developing reliable indicators for vulnerability reduction which can be used to evaluate
progress over time, and act as benchmarks for achievements;
(viii)  identifying the practical boundaries around which realistic activities can be accomplished
(e.g. small watersheds and drainage systems;
(ix)   identifying extemalities likely to impede vulnerability reduction (upstream effects of flash
floods, upstream silting, soil erosion, forest cover denudation,
(x)    advise on institutional mechanisms appropriate for channeling support.
31.    The Vulnerability Assessments will be carried out under the auspices of the proposed State
Disaster Mitigation Agency with technical support from appropriate professional institutions
including the Academy of Rural Development. Wherever possible local NGOs and associated
research capacity will be utilized to facilitate their execution. Work plans, participatory research
methodologies and participatory approaches cannot be defined in any detail as they will be
expected to reflect particular local realities.
PILOT VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS
32.   In order to map out the potential ways in which a vulnerability assessment might be
approached, three pilot assessments will be undertaken in three contrasting districts - one where the
effects of the cyclone were most acute, and where flash flooding caused most damage and one
representing a drought prone area (West Godavari, Khammam and Anantapur Districts for
example). These pilot assessments would provide important information about the parameters of
vulnerability analysis in the three regions of Andhra Pradesh (The Andhra Coast, Telengana and
Rayalaseema). Two villages at different level of development will be chosen in each of the Districts
providing a total of six case studies. These case studies will be used as a base for elaborating the
strategy of the September 1997 Jahnmabhoomi exercise. This latter will act as the launch pad for a
more sustained approach to vulnerability assessment. The objectives of the pilot studies in
vulnerability assessment are to:
(i)   to elaborate participatory methodologies for use in scaling up the experiment
(ii)   to work through the modalities of implementing such assessments
(iii)  to map out the likely costs of the production of vulnerability action plans
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment I1: Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



9
(iv)   the types of interventions to be chosen in reducing vulnerability from natural hazards
(v)    to assess the likely training needs required for scaling up this exercise
The studies will be carried out by a multi-disciplinary team consisting of:
(a)    a forest officer
(b)    an IAS officer of the rank of Collector
(c)    an engineer of the rank of superintending executive engineer
(d)    an NGO representative with expertise in Participatory Assessment methods
(e)    a Communications expert
(f)    local facilitators to be chosen and oriented in advance
33.    At least 2 women would be part of this team. The exercise would be conducted over a
period of three months and would be completed by mid June in time to feed the results into the
planning process for the September round of the Janmabhoomi exercise. These pilot studies will
involve three stages:
34.    The collection, compilation and analysis of all available information about vulnerability in
a particular community (including GIS data, data from the last Janmabhoomi exercise, as well as
information where appropriate and available on the environmental context in which the community
is located, and information available in the Revenue office - to take one month
35.    The presentation of this information to the community, and the development, through
participatory appraisal methodologies, of a draft action plan. - to take one month. The
representation to the community of the results of the vulnerability assessment for comments and
amendments, and the development of a costed, time bound development plan for the next five
years, indicating sources of finance, proposed community contributions, priority interventions,
institutional arrangements. - to take one month. These pilot studies should also provide the basis
for the elaboration of a 'Vulnerability Index' through which interventions might be prioritized as
vulnerability assessments and Action Plans are expanded in the State
36.   Assessment of Training Needs. Following the pilot studies an assessment of training
needs will be undertaken with the assistance of national and international experts. The results of
the training needs assessment will be the basis for building a State training capacity and
strengthening existing institutions within the State to undertake such training and effectively
support District activities in Vulnerability Reduction
AP Hazard and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 11: Community Involvement and the Janmabhoomi program



uiZd O wSo. ooqqowoUfr atj pua :uaWaqoauA KpunuwuwoD: l l Juawtpovn V
Pafodd dla4o03a au0lUOD fua3dawY puv PJ-VH dV
-           .                                  3 =aa   =  u                         iat -3    =    f
'              '                 '          '                                     ''                       '~~zUuj    auuo msuj
. . .. . . . .   .    ..                     .               .            .            .          .             .    ...U...us
*u uyqd poazau1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............  .........                                     .. ........  ............. ''i':ii............. ..... .....
.......................   ......... . ..............  .           .....   ..........   .......   ........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,C ,,
1Oj SaApUa3U1
01



Attachment 12
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
ENHANCED DESIGN STANDARDS
1.     Given the recurring nature of cyclones and floods in AP, and the continuous damages that
they inflict upon vital infrastructure, enhanced design criteria and cyclone/flood conscious siting
are proposed under the project. All infrastructure restoration financed under the project would be
designed to the standards indicated below. It would be the responsibility of the DMU to ensure that
the implementing agencies use these standards without exception. In addition to its rn-house
resources, the DMU will use the services of consultants including the Quality Assurance consultant
to ensure compliance and certification.
ELECTRICITY
2.     The existing electricity network, namely 33 and 11 KV lines, are designed for a wind
pressure of 100 kg/m2 and a wind load of 280 kg. The transmission towers are designed for a
wind pressure of 150 kg/m2. The criteria proposed with regard to electrical installations is to
make the towers and distribution lines capable of withstanding higher wind speeds (e.g., cyclonic
velocities). Respectively, pressure and wind load resistance will be increased to 220 kg/m2 for the
lines and to 500 kg for the transmission towers comprising the sections of the network included in
the project. The REC has laid down the specifications which will be adopted. Existing and
enhanced criteria for this component are compared in Table I below.
Table 1 - Existing and Enhanced Design Criteria: Electrkity Network
Particulars                  Existing                  Improved Design for Coastal Areas
WP   WL   Type of Pole / Span        WP       WL   Type of pole / Span
(Kg/  (Kg)  configuration / mts      (Kg/    (Kg)  configuration / mts
m2)         equipment                m2)             equipment
1.  33KVline      100   280   9.1mtPSCC80               220      500   11mtSpunPole50
2.  11 KV line     100   200   8.0 mt PSCC 65           220      500   11 mt Spun Pole 50
3.  33 / 11 KV    100   200   Triangular configuration  220      -     Triangular configuration
line                       with pin insulators on V-               Horizontal cross-arms with
cross areas                             superior insulators
4.  33 / 11 KV SS   100   -    (i) 150* 150 mm RSJ for                 R.S. Joist structures are
structures                              spaced at short distance of
(ii) 5 MVA power                        5 mt and mass concreted.
transformer                             Damage to the substations
(iii) 11 KV Vaccum Circuit              (to both structures and
breaker with C.T.s etc.                 equipment) on account of
(iv) 10 KA LAs                          higher wind velocities is
(v) 11000 / 110 V.P.T.                  minimal. Hence, existing
(vi) 220 V Battery 60 AH                designs do not require
change
5.  Transmission    150   -                             High    -      Transmission towers will
Towers                                              wind           be strengthened in the
zone           cyclone affected areas for
upgrade        High Wind Zone
according to latest IS-802



2
ROADS
3.    The Roads and Bridges (R&B) component comprises State and Panchyati (PR) roads,
which fall under the responsibility of the R&B Department and the PR Engineering Department,
respectively. With regard to roads, the specifications prescribed by MOST and the Indian Road
Congress (IRC) are proposed to be adopted for the project. The specifications for PR roads and
R&B roads are indicated in Table 3a and 3b at the end of this attachment.
BUILDINGS
4.    Works under this component include the repair and reconstruction of collapsed / damaged
public buildings such as schools, health centers and hospitals which fall under the R&B and PR
administration in the affected districts. The reconstruction of buildings will generally be done
under the Indian Standard specifications, namely IS-456, IS-875 and IS-1893. The dead and live
loads and wind loads of all combinations will be computed and the worst case will be assumed for
the design. Wind speeds consistent with the Indian Standard Code, but not less than 200 km/h -
the wind speeds experienced in the recent cyclone.
5.    In general, the buildings included in this component are proposed with RCC frame with
deeper foundation on elevated grounds as to avoid submergence of the main structure during a
cyclonic event. A richer concrete mix of M 200 will be used, Building specifications for other
components, which are currently in use and specified in the National Building Code (NBC) will be
adopted in all the works proposed under the project. Other building practices that would be adopted
are: larger cover to reinforcing bars, better compacting of concrete, improved design of roof
covering with shorter eaves to prevent uplift, appropriate roof slopes and stronger anchoring.
CYCLONE SHELTERS
6.    The shelters are designed as RCC frame structures with non-load bearing filler walls.
Specific structural details are as follows:
(a) Loads: The shelter is designed for a basic wind pressure of 350 kg/m2 as per IS: 875-11964.
However, the reduction in basic wind pressure recommended in clause 4.2.2, Part IV, of the
National Building Code of India is not considered to ensure the extra safety of the building during a
cyclone. Floor and roof are designed for a live load of 500 kg/m2 as per Is-875-1964.
(b) Foundations: The structure shall be supported by under-reamed pile foundations with the top
of the pile cap at 2 feet below ground level to keep the piles free from scouring action. The piles
and pile caps are designed as per IS-2911-1973.
(c) Design Criteria: The RCC members are designed on the basis of ultimate strength (estimated
using the appropriate load factors recommended in IS-4566-1964). Frames are analyzed by using
the stiffness matrix method using computer-aided design.
(d) Design Stress Adopted:
(i) concrete - M200 grade with a cube strength of 200 kg per sq.cm.
(ii) steel - TOR steel grade 40 with yield stress of 4250 kg per sq.cm. Under reamed piles
are designed using mild steel.
(e) The designs furnished are for guidance during execution and shall be checked prior to execution
and safety ensured with reference to field conditions.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 12: Enhanced Design Standards



3
An independent structural engineer will be employed to check design solutions developed
by the Departments.
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD BANKS
7.     The Indian Standard Institution specifies the recommended design criteria. The guidelines
prescribed under the relevant IS Codes will be followed. The list of IS codes proposed for use are
presented in Table 2 below. The design standards and criteria for the works included in this
component would be monitored with respect to the outcome of the proposed hazard reduction
studies. The latter would help ensure that through improved design criteria, construction practices
and quality control measures, infrastructure will withstand future disasters better. The Planning,
Design and Monitoring Unit (PDMU) and the Quality Control Unit (QCU) of the Irrigation and
CAD Department will, in consultation with the required consultants, specify what standards should
be finally applied regarding flood control and drainage works.
Table 2: List of IS Codes Considered for Drainage and flood Banks
Title of Publication                            IS Code           Year
1.  Guidelines for Planning and Design of Surface Drains   IS 3835     1978
2.  Guidelines for Planning and Design of River     IS 12094           1987
Embankments (Levees)
3.  Guidelines for Construction of River Embankments    IS 11532       1985
(Levees)
4.  Structural Design of Cut and Cover Conduits, Code of   IS 7563     1985
Practice
5.  Hydraulic Design of Barrages and Weins, Anitania  IS 6966          1973
6.  Other Relevant Publications:
Manual on River Behavior, Control and Training
(Control Board of Irrigation and Power Publication
No.60)
Earth Manual (USBR)
Drainage Manual (USBR)
Concrete Manual (USBR)
Road Bridges (IRC or Ministry of Transport, GOI
specification, Guidelines)
Andhra Pradesh Standard Specifications (GOAP)
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 12: Enhanced Design Standards



4
Table 3a: Enhanced Design, Standards - Roads & Bridges
Design Parameters  Existing Condition                Proposed Improvement
ROADS
1. Formation width     9 to 12 m                         12 m for State highways, 9 m for
major District roads wherever possible
in stretches not involving any
problems of land acquisition,
encroachment removal, tree cutting,
etc.
2. Embankment height  0.60 m to 1.0 m                   Low lying areas are proposed to be
raised
3.  Embankment         Not provided                     Embankments in vulnerable areas like
protection                                           canal / drain banks are proposed to be
protected by revetment, retaining
walls with RCC and use of Geotextiles
wherever conventional methods are
unfeasible
4. Camageaway          Single lane:                      During floods and cyclones, some of
3.66 to 3.8 m                    the single lane (SL) roads are
Intermediate lane:               damaged because of insufficient
5.5 m                            Carriageway and shoulders. Hence the
Double lane:                     widening of the SL to intermediate or
6.0 to 7.0 m                     double lane is proposed
5.  Crust              Existing crust varies from 375 to  The crust will be designed for the
450mm, and includes:             CBR value and corresponding traffic
Gravel base:                     on the basis of IRC 37 (Design of
150 to 225mm                     Flexible Pavements). The balance
Metalling:                       crust proposed would be made up in
225 mm (3 layers)                (i) the profile correction course with
Surfacing:                       BT macadam; (ii) 50-75mm thk dense
20mm BT (worn out)               BT macadam layers; and (iii) 25mm
thk structural wearing course with BT
concrete on an average of 150mm.
Additional crust is being provided
(with equivalency factors).
In stretches where water stagnation is
a permanent feature, CC pavements
are proposed with side drains to drain
off the surface waters. The
Department has enough knowledge
and experience in CC pavement
6.  Shoulders          Not present                       Gravel shoulders are proposed
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 12: Enhanced Design Standards



5
Table 3a: Enhanced Design Standards - Roads & Bridges
Design Parameters  Existing Condition                 Proposed Improvement
BRIDGES
1. Hydraulic data       The flood levels and maximum      As the existing bridges, designed
discharge are obtained from the   according to 1990 CRP standards are
Irrigation Department, since it   neither damaged nor overtopped,
maintains the drains, canal and river  there is no need to change the design
flood data. Concurrence is obtained   criteria. Freak flood discharges are
for discharge observations from the    not to be considered.
R&B department
The experience of the 1977 & 1990
cyclones, along with the 1990 CRP
design standards, are considered in
arriving at discharges and other
factors for linear waterway, etc.
2.  Substructure &      As per IRC 21, IRC 78, SP 33 and    Existing codes are followed, since
Superstructure      MOST standard drawings            they have already taken into
consideration severe environmental
conditions and eventualities.
Table 3b: Enhanced Design Standards - Panchayati Roads
Item                                                     Specifications
I Top width of the formation                             7.5 m
2. Side slopes of formation                              2 H to IV
3. Width of gravel sub-base                              4.00 m
4. Thickness of gravel sub-base                          150 to 300 mm (according to necessity)
5. Carriageaway width                                    3.75 m
6. Thickness of first layer metalling with 65mm OTG / HBG  75 mm compacted
7. Thickness of second layer metalling with 65mm OTG / HBG  75 mm compacted
8. Thickness of third layer metalling with 40mm HBG      75 mm compacted
9. BT surface dressing                                   20 mm thick
10. Seal coat (Chipping stone)                           6mm thick
Note: The above follows specifications prescribed by the Ministry of Surface Transport (Roads wing) in its
Specifications for Roads and Bridge Works. For the items not covered in MOST and IRC, the specifications for
the APSS will be adopted.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 12: Enhanced Design Standards



Attachment 13
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
0      U;pRo EMENTDRESPONSI]ITIEs, imTHE COMMTEE OF SECRETARIES: AND FUNDS L0iLOW
I PROCUREMENT RSPONANGEMIEIES
PROCUREMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    Infrastructure components will be implemented through the sector departments under the
overall coordination of the DMU. The sector departments will submit tenders decisions above the
prescribed limits of the Chief Engineers to the Cofmiittee of Secretaries through the DMU. The
DMU will function as the secretariat for the Committee and arrange for the reviews.
2.    The DMU will use the services of the already functioning PMU (with its two procurement
engineers) for procurement matters and to process procurement documentation for the Committee
of Secretaries.
3.    Flood Control and Drainage: All works within this component will be implemented by
the Irrigation and CAD Department. Implementation activities of the reconstruction program will
be managed by the Chief Engineer (CE), who will report directly to the DMU. The CE will be
assisted by Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers, Supporting Engineers and a Quality
Control Unit (QCU). Since this component's activities cover eight districts, a Planning, Design
and Monitoring Unit (PDMU) will be established within the Department for (i) coordination with
the DMU; (ii) inter-district coordination; (iii) monitoring of the construction program; (iv)
submission of reimbursement applications; (v) preparation of quarterly reports; and (vi)
appointment of consultants. The CE will directly supervise the activities of the Quality Control
Unit (QCU) of the Department, created to make recommendations regarding construction standards
and methods, and to ensure their implementation in the field.
4.     Electricity (Transmission and Distribution): The APSEB will undertake the
implementation of works under this component. The cost of each estimate for the procurement
program will, in this case, exceed the powers of sanction of the Chief Engineer, and they will
therefore be approved by the Board. The Board will enhance the powers of the CE and arrange to
clear award decisions within a week of their submission to the Board. Alternatively, decisions on
contracts larger than an agreed threshold will be referred to the DMU and the Committee of
Secretaries.
5.    Roads and Buildings: A specialized organizational setup, headed by the Chief Engineer
will be established to ensure that the construction program is timely accomplished. This
organizational setup will include four circles (each covering a certain number of districts) and 12
Executive Divisions with 38 subdivisions. The specialized circles will also attend to the works
included under the Buildings component. The Panchayati Raj (PR) Engineering Department will
handle rural roads, PR public buildings and the cyclone shelters.
COMMITTEE OF SECRETARIES
6.     Under the project, the Committee of Secretaries, with a similar structure and powers as the
Committee created for the implementation of the CERP, will be established. The competence of
the Chief Engineers will be limited to the approval of tenders up to 25 percent in excess of the
estimated rates. The Committee of Secretaries will have full powers to approve tenders which fall



2
beyond the financial competence of the Chief Engineers. Members of the Committee would be
Secretary (Finance), Secretary Works and Projects, and the Secretary of the concerned department.
The Committee of Secretaries will met about once ever ten days.
FUNDS FLOW ARRANGEMENTS
7     The schemes included in the project will be clearly listed under the functional budgetary
head of each department to ensure their identity. The procedure for release of funds to the various
departments depends upon the institutions or departments executing the scheme. In the case of
works departments, such as Irrigation or Roads & Buildings, allocations are made through a
system of Letter of Credit. In this case, the Works and Project Wing of the Finance Department
will issue an authorization to the Chief Engineer indicating the amount of funds needed for project
implementation by the respective Department for a given period. In turn, the Chief Engineer /
Head of the Department will distribute the amount - also in the form of an authorization - among
the various field functionaries, e.g., Executive Engineers, who are the ones directly making the
payments for the work carried out at this level.
8.    In the case of the Forest Department, the expenditure is incurred by the Field Officers
through a system of issue of cheques to the extent of funds placed at their disposal. For the
APSEB, funds are released by way of a loan through a government order.
9.     Each of the Departments or Agencies receiving funds under the project will summarize
every month their project expenses and furnish it to the DMU within five days of the completion of
the month for submission of reimbursement claims.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 13: Procurement Responsibilities, The Committee of Secs and Fund Flow



Attachment 14
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
PERFORMANCE MONITORING   ICATORS   777:7f
1.    Two kinds of indicators would be considered for monitoring progress of the proposed
project: (i) program performance indicators, which allow the evaluation of progress made toward
the fulfillment of the stated short, medium and long-term mitigation and recovery objectives, as
described for each of the proposed project components; and (ii) project performance indicators,
which measure the flow of the project with respect to procurement procedures, contract preparation
and approval, and general disbursement issues. When necessary, initial values of some
performance indicators would be established to provide a baseline to evaluate the extent to which
target values for each objective are being met.
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2.     The natural hazard mitigation objectives of the project require indicators to measure
progress toward cyclone and flood vulnerability reduction in the target areas. This implies the need
to measure advances in the Hazard Management Program including (i) undertaking of the hazard
studies and development of action plans; and (ii) social, environmental and economic issues such as
levels of community involvement, enhancement of institutional capacity for disaster management,
changes in peoples' disaster perception and in their attitudes toward disaster mitigation, as well as
community and government commitment to sustaining mitigation works through the amounts
channeled via the Vulnerability Reduction Fund. This type of indicators, illustrated below,
requires field work. The restoration objectives require the measurement of the extent to which
essential assets of the road, drainage and electricity networks that were affected by the recent
disaster are being timely and appropriately repaired and/or reconstructed.
ProgramfPerformance Indicators
Component                 Activity                 Indicator            Unit
Hazard Management
Program
GOAP Activities        Cyclone and Management     Cyclone and Flood      No. completed
Studies                   Management Studies
Consultants           No. hired
Hazard Reduction Action    Hazard Reduction Action  No. completed
Plans                      Plans
Development of an          AP Disaster Management No. of staff
Implementation Framework    Unit and other agencies   involved
Leveraging of individual /  Vulnerability Reduction   Rs. allocated
community efforts          Fund
GOI Activities         Cyclone Early Warning      Training Abroad        No. staff
System                    Doppler Radar Systems   No. installed



2
Component                  Activity                 Indicator             Unit
Restoration of
Infrastructure
Electric Power Facilities    Strengthening of       132/220 KV Lines        km strengthened
Transmission Lines
Construction of New Lines   132/220/33/11 KV Lines  km built (by
Construction of New         Substations            category)
Substations                                        No. built (by
category)
Irrigation Drains and   Reconstruction and          Drains                  km reconstructed
Flood Banks             Rehabilitation of drainage                          or rehabilitated
network
Reconstruction and         Flood embankments       km reconstructed
Rehabilitation of Flood Banks                      or rehabilitated
Roads and Bridges       Repair, strengthening and   State Roads             km repaired or
Reconstruction              Panchayati Raj Roads   reconstructed
State Bridges          No. repaired or
Panchayati Brides      reconstructed
Mitigation Works        Planting of Tree Shelter Belts  Shelter Belts       ha planted
Emergency Shelters          Shelters               No. built and
repaired
Technical Assistance
Disaster Awareness /        Workshops/ seminars    No. organized
Preparedness               Participants            No. of attendees
NGOs, CBOs and other   No. involved
community groups
Improved Communication and  Training Courses       No. offered
Information Technology      Officials Trained (by  No. of attendees
level)
3.     An important component of the long-term mitigation objectives is to facilitate the
involvement of CBOs, NGOs and the public at large in disaster management planning, and to
ensure that public campaigns are being undertaken to raise people's awareness regarding cyclone
and flood hazards. To gather the necessary information to measure progress toward these ends a
monitoring plan has been devised. This plan would include activities to measure:
(i) changes in peoples ' hazard awareness. A survey would be administered at the
beginning of project implementation in a selected area in East Godavari, before any
specific campaign is initiated, to establish a baseline. Questionnaires would be
administered every year up to the end of the project, for a total of 4 measurements.
(ii) levels of community involvement and commitment A series of workshops would be
organized to engage people at the comnmunity level in disaster management planning. These
workshops should include CBOs, local NGOs, and other community groups, with especial
emphasis on the most vulnerable population segments The workshops would enable the
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 14: Performance Monitoring Indicators



3
creation of a database with the profiles of participants, from which a representative sample
can be interviewed to measure the extent to which they understand the relevance of
collaborating with government in the disaster mitigation schemes being put in place.
(iii) changes in peoples 'perceptions. A panel study would be designed to follow up a
specific community in two of the most vulnerable districts, and a specialized instrument
would be administered throughout project implementation. Visits would be done according
to the schedule for the public campaign and the dissemination of the results of the
vulnerability studies.
(iv) degree of commitment to long-term mitigation objectives on the part of govemment
officials at the sub-district level. Structured interviews with a selected sample of officials
from the two most affected districts would be undertaken at the start, middle and end of
project implementation.
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
4.     Proposed indicators to monitor project performance would be:
(i) Average duration of procurement procedures from launching of bids to contract awards
(in calendar days) by year
(ii) Average duration of preparation, signature and approval of contracts (in calendar days)
by year
(iii) Percentage of contracts implemented within the scheduled time frame (by year)
(iv) Percentage of contracts implemented with no cost overrun (by year)
(v) Percentage of payments processed or transmitted to the Bank within 30 days after
receipt of invoice or due date (by year)
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 14: Performance Monitoring Indicators



Attachment 15
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCIES,
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultancy on Hazard Mapping for
Cyclone, Inland & Coastal Flood Risk
PURPOSE
1.    The purpose of this consultancy is to prepare State and District level hazard zonation
maps for cyclone, storm surge and flood risk and classify settlements by priority and type of
intervention.
INPUTS
2.     Key inputs will be provided by the cyclone, storm surge and wind speed modeling
consultancy assignments.
3.     GOAP/GOI to provide access to necessary digital map information on elevations,
administrative boundaries, location and boundaries of settlements, watersheds, land-cover, stream
flow, run-off, etc.
4.     GOAP departments to provide data on infrastructure network location and alignments,
infrastructure provision, house and building types, demographic, revenue and socio-economic data
at settlement, mandal and district level.
ACTVITIES
5.     Collection of inputs from cyclone storm surge and wind speed modeling consultancy
assignments (i.e. rainfall, cyclone, storm surge characteristics, return periods, variance and data
reliability, concentration)
6.     Classification of zones by hazard intensity and return period (for cyclone, coastal and
inland flood)
7.     Classification of zones by topography, land-cover and drainage using elevation, slope,
catchment boundaries and soil parameters.
8.    Identification of terrain change areas that affect effective basic wind speeds
9.    Identification of protected and flood bottleneck areas and areas of concentration on coast
and along inland water courses.
10.   Identification of infrastructure bottleneck areas, especially bridges, railway lines and
roads.
11.   Identification of historical cyclone and flood affected areas (and damage zones, by life,
livestock, infrastructure, agriculture and economic activity, wherever possible) by analysis of
secondary data on damage and remote sensing data.



2
12.   Determination of typical mechanisms and intensity of damage by cyclone and flood
hazards on buildings and infrastructure elements (by type)
13.    Classification of mandals/settlements by population density, settlement location and type,
building types and infrastructure elements.
14.    Determination of selected mandals (for State level maps) and settlement (for district level
maps) types by hazard intensity and risk levels.
15.   Identification of hazard modification options for selected mandals and settlement types.
16.   Analysis of cyclone and flood hazard and specific risk at mandal level to produce State
level hazard and vulnerability maps.
17.   Prioritization of mandals/settlements based on hazard modification options and preparation
of relevant maps.
OUTPUTS
18.    State level digital hazard zonation maps for cyclone, inland and coastal flooding risk (with
village as lowest level of resolution) in selected high hazard zones within districts.
19.    Classification of settlements, by hazard level and potential interventional measures.
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Audit of Community
Involvement in Hazard Reduction Activities
OBJECTIVES
20.    The objective of this assignment is to conduct continuous monitoring and audit of the
activities designed to involve communities in hazard reduction activities.
SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES
21.    The scope of the consultant's work would include:
(i)  review of the extent of interest and mobilization of communities, measured through
the number of hazard reduction activities undertaken;
(ii)  assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the awareness raising programs;
(iii) assessment of the interest and use of matching financing from the VRF;
(iv)  assessment of the use of VRF funds for community benefit;
(v)  effectiveness of the Disaster Management Committees at the district, taluka and
mandal levels;
(vi) use and effectiveness of the VHF communications systems provided under the
project:
(vii) deployment and use of the computers and associated equipment;
(viii) activities undertaken using information technology (data base of land ownership,
village demography, list of community assets, activities undertaken through the
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



3
Janmabhoomi program, including records of cash and in kind contributions from
communities, maintenance schedules for community infrastructure);
(ix)  extent of training of local officials and community representatives in the use of
technology; and
(x)  extent of misuse of facilities provided.
AUDIT REPORT
22.   The consultant should: report in qualitative and quantitative terms to illustrate the extent
to which the objectives of community involvement in hazard reduction activities are successful;
recommend changes to the program that are required to keep the activities on track to meet the
objectives; reports on misuse of facilities and suggest corrective action to be taken.
FREQUENCY OF REPORTING
23.   The consultant will carry out technical audits every for months, visiting various talukas
and mandals in rotation, with each taluka visited at least once every six months. The consultant
will produce a report following each visit within two weeks of completion of the visit to the field.
The consultant should submit the reports direct to the Director of the DMU.
Outline Terms of Reference for Quality Assurance and Certification
(A) For GOAP
OBJECTIVES
24.   To ensure that infrastructure restored under the project conforms to sound engineering
design and construction practices, and to certify their compliance with hazard reduction criteria
agreed under the project.
SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES
25.   The following activities would be covered under the assignment:
(i)    verification that necessary environmental screening and certification has been
granted by the DMU, and any agreed mitigation activities have been incorporated
in the design and included in project costs;
(ii)   verification that no displacement of people is planned or has taken place;
(iii)   check of design assumptions and adequacy of the criteria to meet the minimum
requirements set by the DMU and the Bank;
(iv)   check of field conditions regarding siting, hydrology, land use and other factors
that contribute to increased vulnerability;
(v)    adequacy of construction practice and methodology adopted; and
(vi)   quality of workmanship and supervision to meet specifications.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



4
COVERAGE
26.    The assignment will cover the core infrastructure sectors of irrigation, roads and bridges,
public buildings and electricity facilities.
SAMPLING
27.   The consultant and the DMU will agree on the sample of infrastructure to be reviewed
under this assignment. A sample of about ten percent would be considered. The consultant and the
DMU will agree on the major infrastructure investments that would be reviewed on a hundred
percent basis for which certification would be required.
FREQUENCY
28.    The consultant will have experienced staff for the various disciplines, and would undertake
field visits, in rotation, once in three months.
REPORTING
29.    The consultant will not interfere in the field with the supervisory arrangements of
implementing agencies nor give any instructions to the field staff. The consultant will submit a
report following each visit, outlining the findings, the non-compliance and other deficiencies with
recommendations for remedial actions. The reports will be submitted directly to the Project
Director of the DMU. Promptly upon receipt of the report of the consultant, the Project Director of
the DMU will take action to correct any deficiencies or non-compliance.
(B) For IMD
30.    A similar assignment to the one described above would be contracted, but with a different
set of disciplines applicable to cyclone early warning systems.
Outline Terms of Reference for Formulation of Design Criteria and
Construction Practices for Infrastructure in High Risk Areas
BROAD OBJECTIVE
31.    The broad objective of the study is to review current design criteria and construction
practice and recommend the respective criteria and practices to be adopted for the construction of
cyclone and flood-resistant infrastructure such as drains and flood banks, etc. in high risk zones
Such review and recommendations will consider the latest technological advances made in this
field.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TORfor Consultancies



5
STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
32.    When completed, the project should broadly have developed the following main results.
(i)    design criteria to be adopted for irrigation structures, drains and flood banks etc.,
to withstand cyclone, wind, floods and storm surges.
(ii)    broad ranges of intensities of hazard factors for application of new design criteria.
(iii)   cost-benefit relationships with application of the recommended design criteria.
(iv)   feasibility report on varying design criteria within the vulnerable zones.
(v)    design criteria and construction practices for high risk areas.
(vi)   special provisions, that may be found necessary, for enforcement of the new
design criteria.
(vii)   uniform building code for high risk and coastal area.
33.    The existing practices of design of infrastructure relating to:
(i)    Irrigation and drainage generally conform to Indian standards on various disciplines, such
as river valley development and civil engineering materials etc. Wind forces, flood frequencies,
storm-run-off, hydraulic and structural design of structures, energy dissipation arrangements, soil
engineering and foundation design etc. form the core group parameters. A Classified List of Indian
Standards on River Valley Development and Civil Engineering published by the Bureau of Indian
standards, New Delhi, can be a good source of standards available on these topics. The design
procedures also refer to standard text books, such as Open Channel Hydraulics and Hydrology
Handbook by Vente Chow and various other standard textbooks on hydraulics, soil mechanics,
structural engineering, etc. Certain Manuals, e.g., Guidelines for Estimation of Flood Discharges
published by CWC are good reference sources whenever special problems are encountered for
design studies undertaken at institutions like CWPRS (in Pune) and APERL (in Hyderabad).
(ii)    Buildings being constructed by R&B and Panchayati Raj Departments conform to
National Buildings Code (NBC), Indian Standards codes on Reinforced cement concrete, wind
forces, seismic forces, foundations etc., and
(iii)   The Roads conform to the specifications indicated by the Ministry of Surface Transport
(MOST) and Indian Roads Congress (IRC) and standard text books/codes on pavement designs.
34.    Sectional Committees of Bureau of Indian Standards periodically review the codes of
practice and revise if found necessary.
35.    Special solutions for design of foundations of structures where soils met with negligible
shear parameters or near nil values in coastal districts drains are often arrived at by indigenous
methods - which require refined solutions.
SCOPE OF WORK
36.    Consultant's services will cover: roads and bridges, irrigation and drainage, electric
facilities, water supply and sewerage facilities, and public and private buildings (including multi-
story buildings).
37.    The Consultant will specifically:
(a)    Review and document design criteria and construction practices for each
infrastructure subsector that would have a linkage to hazards such as cyclone,
wind, floods and storm surge;
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



6
(b)    Document the intensity and frequency of occurrences of each of the hazard factors
and prepare broad ranges of their intensities for application of the new design
criteria, in agreement with the infrastructure construction agencies,
regulating agencies (such as the Relief Commissioner) Central and concerned
State agencies and in conformity with up-to-date hazard maps available;
(c)    Conduct sensitivity analyses to determine the cost and benefit relationship for the
enhanced design criteria and construction practices, clearly indicating which of the
factors are essential;
(d)    Using available hazard maps determine the high risk areas to each type of hazard,
and investigate the feasibility of varying design criteria within the vulnerable
zones;
(e)    Recommend for each infrastructure sub-sector, the design criteria and
construction practices suitable for use in clearly demarcated vulnerable high risk
areas of Andhra Pradesh;
(f)    Specify any special provisions required for enforcement of the new design criteria;
and
(h)    Prepare a draft Coastal and High Risk Area Uniform Building Code.
38.   In co-operation with the Irrigation, R&B, PR and Public Health departmental staff, the
consultants shall design suitable formats for collection of all relevant data for design criteria and
construction practices. A data base shall be created with all readily available data in such a way
that future data collection, relevant statistical analysis and reporting can be handled through the
data base system.
OUTPUTS
39.    The report would include specific recommendations for design and construction practices
for different type of structures, broad ranges of intensities for application of new design criteria,
cost - benefit relationship indicating the factors essential for applying the design criteria, determine
high risk zones and demarcate them in the maps, specify any special provisions for enforcement of
new design criteria, and prepare uniform building code in the coastal and high risk area.
40.    The Consultant shall prepare a work plan explaining the strategy and process they would
use to accomplish the assignment. The Consultant should prepare an inception report within one
month after inception of the contract for review by the client. They should further submit an
interim report within one month after review of the inception by the client. The Draft Final Report
submitted by the Consultant will be reviewed the Review Committee constituted for this purpose
and the report finalized accordingly.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



7
Outline Terms of Reference for Cyclone, Flood and Storm Surge
Modeling and Analysis
OBJECTIVE
41.   The objective of this study is to improve the scientific and operational capability of the
India Meteorological Department (IMD) and to provide timely, complete and accurate predictions
of critical characteristics of cyclonic storms in the Bay of Bengal. The addition of six Doppler
radar stations covering the coastal area of AP will provide new information on the location and
intensity of cyclones approaching the coast. These data along with improved satellite monitoring
of weather systems in the Bay of Bengal will make possible the improvement of event specific
predictions of landfall, rainfall and wind speed. This improved information will facilitate the
modeling of cyclones and their associated impacts and the identification of areas exposed to
potentially damaging wind and flooding.
42.   Modeling of the cyclone process makes possible the real time estimation of projected
rainfall and storm surge. This information when related to adequate topographic mapping permits
to identify high risk hazard zones. Detailed mapping of high risk hazard zones may be used to
direct population and investment to relatively safer areas, thus reducing future disaster losses.
SCOPE
43.   This modeling and analysis will include the meteorological and oceanographic aspects of
the cyclone phenomenon. First priority is given to the application of modeling and analysis to
phenomena likely to affect the territory of Andhra Pradesh. This work should lead to a general
enhancement of cyclone prediction and forecasting in the region.
44.   The modeling effort will require extensive meteorological, topographical, hydrological and
bathymetrical data as input. Access to this material, where it is available, and collection of
relevant data when unavailable, are critical to the success of the project. IMD's must lead a
coordinated effort of key GOI organizations including the Survey of India, the Department of
Ocean Development and the Central Water Commission in order to accomplish this task.
TASKS
45.   Assessment of availability of existing relevant data resources and analytical capability for
cyclone, flood, and storm surge modeling for Andhra Pradesh. Outcome: data acquisition plan.
46.   Review and assessment of available models for cyclonic storm path prediction, rainfall
distribution and intensity, coastal flooding and stormn surge. Ouitcome: Recommendations on
models to be used.
47.   Completion of the necessary mapping of the coastal zone and major flood plains at 0.5
meter contours. Outcome: Complete topographic and bathymetric mapping for Andhra Pradesh.
48.   Cyclone modeling, including: (i) selection and adaptation of appropriate models; (ii) data
acquisition; and (iii) implementation of cyclone related models. Outcome: Improved real time
forecasting of rainfall, wind speed, cyclone land fall, input for development of wind hazard map for
Andhra Pradesh.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TORfor Consultancies



8
49.    Storm surge and coastal flood modeling, including: (i) selection and adaptation of
appropriate models; (ii) data acquisition (i.e., meteorological, hydrological, topographic, et cetera);
and (iii) implementation of storm surge and coastal flood models. Outcome: input for coast zone
flood and storm surge hazard maps for Andhra Pradesh.
Outline Terms of Reference for Comprehensive Coastal Zone, Delta and
Watershed Management Plans
OBJECTIVE
50.   The long term objective of this study is to achieve sustained and effective flood
forecasting, flood control and water management in the coastal zone, the Krishna and Godavari
Deltas and upland watersheds subject to flash flooding; thus protecting human lives, crops,
property and infrastructure investments.
SCOPE
51.   This project includes three-interrelated areas: (i) the coastal zone which includes the
roughly 1000 km coast of Andhra Pradesh and ancillary areas inland (including all areas subject to
coastal flooding); (ii) the deltas of the Krishna and Godavari rivers (which include the coastal zone
areas); and (iii) upland watershed subject to flash flooding. These upland watersheds contribute to
the hydrologic systems of the deltas and the coastal zone.
52.   The primary focus of the study is to introduce hazard related information into the
integrated, comprehensive programs associated with these three areas. This work will be
conducted largely on the basis of data specific to Andhra Pradesh. Leadership will lie with state
level agencies such as the Irrigation and Drainage Department. Substantial input would be
expected from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the Central Water
Commission(CWC).
TASKS
53.   Assessment of availability of existing necessary data resources and analytical capability
for flood plain and watershed management. Outcome: data acquisition plan.
54.   Review and assessment of available models for riverine flood, flash flood and flood plain
and watershed management. Outcome: selection of appropriate models.
55.   Flood and watershed management modeling, including: (i) data acquisition for models
(meteorological, hydrological, topographic, vegetation and land use); (ii) implementation of flood
plain models; and (iii) analysis of water management options. Outcome: Input for development of
flood and flash flood hazard maps; input for development of flood control strategy; input for real
time operations of control system.
56.   Integration of disaster loss reduction considerations into regional development plans.
Outcome: Integrated coastal zone management plan; Krishna and Godavari Delta management
plan, integrated flood plain management plans; integrated watershed plans for areas subject to flash
flooding.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



9
57.   Inclusion of disaster-loss reduction priorities into social and economic development plans.
Outcome: Procedure for calculation of disaster risk as a factor in social and economic planning.
Outline Terms of Reference for Study of Electric Power System
Improvement for Hazard Mitigation
OBJECTIVES
58.    The objective of the study would be to evolve appropriate design and construction
standards for transmission, distribution and substation facilities in the coastal areas of Andhra
Pradesh to mitigate the impact of cyclones and floods that frequently hit the coast. Specifically,
the consultant(s) conducting the study will:
*  Review existing design criteria and construction practices
* Review international practices for design and construction of facilities in disaster prone areas.
*  Select possible design criteria that may be applicable to Andhra Pradesh.
* Evaluate the cost/benefits of different alternatives.
*  Review intensity and frequency of floods and cyclones and classify areas into different risk
zones.
*  Recommend appropriate design criteria and construction practices for different areas.
*  Apply these to existing facilities and future plans.
*  Recommend a phased remedial plan with clearly defined priorities.
*  Prepare cost estimates and implementation timetables.
Outline Terms of Reference for Community Based Hazard Reduction:
Integrated Mitigation, Warning and Response
BACKGROUND
59.    To a great extent, the GOAP has assumed the responsibility of replacing the assets and
resources lost to the disasters which frequently affect the state, thereby facing a continuous drain of
public funds. Vulnerable populations have come to rely heavily on the state government for the
satisfaction of their post-disaster needs. As the levels of dependency on government emergency
and relief assistance have increased, incentives for sharing the responsibility for disaster
preparedness and management have diminished significantly among local communities in the
cyclone and flood prone areas. Given current fiscal constraints, however, official programs such
as emergency shelters cannot continue to depend completely on government resources for their
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



10
maintenance and/or management. As part of a sound strategy for community development,
vulnerable populations should be involved in hazard reduction activities at the local level.
OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
60.   The long-term objectives of the study are to (i) reduce the financial and psychological
impact of disasters on the affected populations and the GOAP; and (ii) increase the levels of
disaster preparedness among vulnerable populations and industries.
61.   The short-term objectives of the study, considering the project implementation period and
the overall hazard activities to be undertaken by the GOAP under the project, are to address
shortfalls and reconunend programs and activities that would improve (i) the accuracy of warnings;
(ii) warning effectiveness at the taluka and mandal level, including a degree of warning redundancy
necessary to ensure reliable warnings and an adequate response level among the target audience;
(iii) individual and community involvement in disaster preparedness and mitigation; (iv)
effectiveness of warning response mechanisms at all levels, including district, taluka, mandal,
community and individual; and, (v) communications systems at the taluka and mandal level,
particularly computer-based systems with Internet links and the capacity to access relevant data on
warning and mitigation issues as well as related community development information.
62.   These objectives will be accomplished in two phases:
(a) Phase 1 - Assessment. It will consist of a thorovtgh analysis of (i) state and local
capacity at various levels and different respects, including, inter alia, individual,
community, institutional and technical capacity, and (ii) the needs of vulnerable
populations.
(b)  Phase 2 - Design and Implementation. Drawing from the information and
recommendations gathered during Phase I, it will entail the design and undertaking
of hazard reduction programs through locally-focused activities supported with local
financing and in-kind contributions, along with GOAP and international funds.
Specific Phase II activities are only suggested in this TOR as an indication of what
can be done, since a precise and elaborated plan will be the responsibility of the
consultants. The latter should provide the final list and content of activities.
63.   The programs addressing the above objectives should be based on a two-way dialogue
between the government and the target populations in vulnerable areas. Issues to cover should
include local needs, capacities and appropriate disaster preparedness and response mechanisms.
SCOPE OF WORK
64.    Overall study outcome Once completed, the study will lead to the following general
results:
(a)  a link with the other sub-components and studies included in the project, to ensure
the overall compatibility and integration of data, paradigms and planning
recommendations being produced, such as data and findings on flood modeling,
hazard mapping, demographics, et cetera.
(b)  improved forecast precision and reduced time-lag between IMD's landfall prediction
and community/individual emergency response.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



11
(c)  reduced negative impact of disasters on financial resources of GOAP and affected
populations.
65.    All studies and assessments shall be made in conjunction with the other studies called for
in the Project with full utilization of the data and findings in these studies as they become available.
It is expected that the consultants will form a close working relationship with DMU, which will
provide free and easy access/exchange of data between the various studies included in the Project.
66.   All activities in the project should be coordinated and worked through and in conjunction
with the activities being developed in the Janmabhoomi Program. The latter should be used as
support for the many community hazard reduction activities to be implemented under these TOR.
67.   The study will be implemented in two phases: Phase 1, which will identify the needs and
strategies for addressing these needs, and in which implementation in high priority projects will
begin where appropriate. All activities listed below will take place during this phase, unless
specifically designated "phase 2" (in which the studies, designs and recommendations of the first
phase are acted on through program implementation as appropriate). Phase 1 and phase 2 are
further addressed below.
PROJECT TASKS AND PRODUCTS
68.   The following are the major tasks to be undertaken by the consultants in cooperation with
the GOAP, to achieve the immediate objectives of the study. It is, however, left to the professional
judgment of the consultants to make any necessary supplements in order to achieve the immediate
objective of the study leading to the long-term project objectives. In this respect, the consultants
will make recommendations and design activities that promote the development of one or more of
three disaster management products: (i) a comprehensive vulnerability assessment; (ii) operational
disaster response; and, (iii) a state-wide disaster mitigation strategy.
69.   The improvement of lines of communication between IMD forecasting and individuals in
villages and towns on the AP coast which builds on the improvement in IMD forecasting is an
expected outcome from the acquisition of radar and other equipment by the IMD.
70.    The consultants shall assess the suitability and identify problems of current process of
disseminating warnings from the time a forecast is made by the IMD to the receipt of this warning
by the vulnerable populations. Recommendations for additional equipment shall be made if found
appropriate. Alternative means of communicating the warnings will be examined and at least one
redundant mechanism will be recommended. Output: Recommendations for improvements in
existing transmission of waming and additional mechanisms identified to provide redundancy.
EFFECTIVENESS OF WARNING
71.    The consultants shall assess the warning system for effectiveness. Constraints to an
effective warning which elicits a reasonable and protective response will be identified, and
recommendations made, if appropriate, which could remove these constraints. The consultants
shall examine particularly the constraints imposed by "waming fatigue" and recommend
mechanisms and programs which address this phenomenon As part of this assessment, the
consultants shall also examine elements of the composition of the present warning messages, with
consideration to technical and anthropological issues which affect warning effectiveness and
identify areas where warnings can be made more effective and pervasive, i.e. improvement of Air
India Radio (AIR) effectiveness for waming.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



12
72.   Phase 2. The consultants shall design and assist in the implementation of appropriate
programs which improve warning effectiveness. Outcomes: Recommendations and proposals
which will result in a more effective warning, and better responses to warnings. Implementation of
programs which address constraints to an effective warning system.
ALTERNATIVE WARNING MECHANISMS
73.   The consultants shall identify, where appropriate, alternative low-cost warning
mechanisms, and local informal warning mechanisms which could augment the existing technical
systems. Among the mechanisms which the consultants should examine are GIS fishing boat
locators, and the utilization of an enhancement of folk warning systems. Outcome: Proposals for
augmenting present systems with alternative and informal warning mechanisms.
COMMUNITY VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS
74.   In conjunction with the participation of people in vulnerable coastal and nrverine
communities, the consultants shall conduct participatory vulnerability assessments in 15 per cent of
villages in the high hazard areas of Andhra Pradesh. The consultants shall help these communities
identify priorities for immediate, medium and long term interventions for hazard reduction and
identify ways in which they can address these needs.
75.   The consultants shall also identify local lead institutions capable of implementing
community hazard awareness programs and providing leadership for preparedness. These
institutions could be, inter alia, fishing cooperatives, marketing networks and organizations and
maritime authorities.
76.   It is envisioned that pilot activities begun in these communities will provide the basis for
similar and improved projects in all villages in vulnerable zones.
77.   Phase 2. The consultants shall assist communities in high hazard areas in designing and
implementing mitigation programs. It is envisioned that these programs would have a significant
contribution by the community, but would also receive matching financial assistance from the
Vulnerability Reduction Fund and/or the GOAP. Outcome: Recommendations for and
implementation of (in phase 2) activities for community designed and administered hazard
reduction.
COMMUNITY AWARENESS AND PREPAREDNESS
78.   The consultants shall identify ways to increase awareness and preparation for cyclone and
floods in vulnerable communities but not limited to: (i) provision of incentives for community and
individual preparedness; (ii) education on effective responses, evacuation procedures, and for
municipal government's public awareness campaigns as appropriate, and (iii) education on safety
during disasters. Output: Proposals for increasing hazard awareness and preparation for floods
and cyclones.
EFFECTIVENESS OF CYCLONE AND FLOOD RESPONSE
79.   The consultants shall perform an assessment of existing district taluka and mandal level
response mechanisms including, but not be limited to, an assessment of systems and equipment.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



13
80.   The consultants shall examine the constraints on response to cyclone and floods by
individuals in high hazard areas, and propose programs which will assist individuals in responding
more effectively to cyclones and floods. Output: Proposals for improving institutional and
individual responses to cyclone and flood warnings.
SHELTER IMPROVEMENT
81.    Community Emergency Shelters. The consultants shall examine the shelters available to
the populations of high hazard areas and assess the shelters suitability and capacity to safely house
local populations which might be expected to use the shelter. In conjunction with the community,
the consultants shall identify appropriate uses of the shelter when not required for shelter from
flood or disaster, help the community to identify needs and mechanisms which will improve the off-
disaster use and maintenance of the shelter, identify sheltering and relief needs during times of
flood and cyclone, and develop plans and design programs to address these needs. The consultants
shall help communities in high risk areas to identify buildings in the community to provide
sufficient shelter for the population, and work with the GOAP to provide additional emergency
shelter infrastructure if required.
FAMILY HOUSING - SHELTER
82.   The consultants shall examine existing programs for housing improvement in vulnerable
areas and make recommendations for integration of hazard mitigation elements into these
programs. The consultants shall examine the economic trade-of of investing in housing upgrade
versus participating in a hazard fund or insurance for post-disaster housing replacement or
rehabilitation. Where appropriate, the consultants will recommend additional initiatives which will
promote the strengthening of existing housing and building of new housing to standards of
construction which will improve the resistance of the housing to wind and inundation. Such
programs should address, inter alia, placement of openings in houses, roof design and roof/frame
connections, house siting, bracing and other simple and easily implemented engineering techniques
and use of water resistant materials.
83.    Recommendations for family housing improvement will be made within the economic
context of vulnerable families. All recommendations must be able to be implemented by families
with few monetary resources. Addressing this issue, the consultants recommendations will
consider, inter alia, the use of inexpensive locally available materials, incentive schemes for
housing improvement such as combining material and upgrading requirements with programs for
subsidized improved building materials and training for unskilled and indigent families in better
techniques for self-constructed cyclone and flood resistant housing.
84.   All proposals for housing improvement shall include plans for independent monitoring of
the programs to insure that funds are used efficiently in improving poorly constructed housing
among the most vulnerable populations.
85.   Phase 2. The consultants shall assist the state and community in implementing programs
designed under phase 1. Outputs: Sufficient community shelter for all vulnerable populations;
shelter maintenance programs in place; and improved resistance to wind and water in family
housing.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



14
DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
86.   The consultants shall identify and suggest design for activities which will assist
communities and institutions in high hazard occupations to prepare for flood, cyclones and for the
inevitable losses from disaster. The designs should assure that they will be sustained long term by
the organizations or institutions which they serve, with a minimum of assistance for the GOAP or
other donors. The areas to be examined should include: mutual assistance programs (fisherman
coops, agricultural co-opts and other local trade organizations, economic improvement via
preparedness, such as subsidized insurance programs, marine safety programs and involvement of
local business groups (i.e. Lion's clubs) in the development of prograns for mutual assistance
and/or disaster insurance.
87.   Phase 2. As directed by the Disaster Management Unit, the consultants shall assist trade
organizations and other institutions in implementing preparedness programs. Output: Proposals
for self-standing preparedness programs and institutions which prepare vulnerable groups to
mitigate losses due to disasters.
COMMUNITY ACCESS TO INFORMATION - INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS
88.    The Consultants shall assist in the development of a community based Internet access
system. The project will provide, under a separate component, the necessary equipment to allow
local (village level) leaders, organizations and institutions access to a variety of information over
the Internet, especially information which can assist local leadership in developing disaster
mitigation and preparedness programs. The system will primarily allow a more direct contact
between the state government and activities at the village level.
89.   In the context of their other activities at the community level and in conjunction with local
leadership, the consultants shall design a program for use of a local Internet access system which
will give maximum access to information from the Internet to a broad spectrum of local leaders and
organizations. The programs' design shall anticipate impediments to a free and broad access and
will recommend mechanisms to insure that such impediments are minimized. These
recommendations shall be developed through dialog with the District Disaster Management
Committees, the Disaster Management Unit (DMU) and the Disaster Management Council.
Acting on the comments of these groups, the consultants will, afterwards, refine recommendations
for the organization of the system for approval.
90.    The consultants shall provide the necessary oversight to begin real-time operation of the
system and troubleshoot initial problems in the system for six months after start up of the system.
Outputs: Proposal for village level accessible communication links. Installation of the village
level system and training for management staff.
IMPLEMENTATION OF HAZARD MITIGATION, WARNING IMPROVEMENT AND
PREPAREDNESS PROJECTS
91.    The consultant shall provide general technical oversight for implementation of all
programs, report on a regular basis to the DMU on progress of the implementation and assess the
implementation of the programs in the context of the overall and immediate objectives of the
project outlined above.
92.   As directed by DMU, the consultant shall take an active role in assisting communities,
organization, mandal leadership and other organizations and groups as appropriate in implementing
prograrns designed under this project.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TORfor Consultancies



15
93.    While the role of the consultant as implementor will be decided by the DMU after
considering the need and appropriateness of the consultant's support, it is envisaged that the
consultant will perform oversight for implementation of the projects designed, outlined above
during Phase I and Phase 2. Product: Quality assurance in implementation of the programs for
hazard mitigation, preparedness and improved warning and fidelity to the objectives of the project.
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES
94.    The consultants shall be responsible for the management of the assignment and also for its
implementation within the given constraints of time and resources. Consultants are solely
responsible for, inter alia, the collection and interpretation of data, and for the findings and
recommendations of the project.
95.    The consultants shall in cooperation with the staff assigned from the client carry out, inter
alia, all data collection, studies, and analysis needed to attain the objectives and overall project
outputs and products as stated above. The consultants are responsible for attaining a fully
professional standard of the work.
96.    The DMU will provide overall guidance for the study. The client shall further provide the
necessary approval of the reports and documents provided by the consultant within the time frame
allocated for such approval/comments.
97.   It is envisaged that the study head office shall be established in Hyderabad. A close
cooperation with DMU in Hyderabad will be maintained. It is recommended that the consultant
maintain a field office in Kakinada or other suitable location close to the area of study.
TIME SCHEDULE, REPORTING AND REVIEW
98.    The entire study consists of two phases. Phase 1 activities will be completed in six
months. Phase 2 activities will be a follow-up activity in which the consultants activity will be
further defined based on action taken by the DMC and the DMU on the consultant's
recommendations and proposals, but will be completed in about one year. Activities in Phase 1
will include:
a)   study of and recommendations for improvement of lines of communication between
IMD forecasting and individuals in villages and towns on the AP coast;
b)   assessment of the waming system for effectiveness;
c)   development of alternative warning mechanisms;
d)   conduct of participatory vulnerability assessments in 15 percent of villages in the
high hazard areas;
e)   identification of ways to increase awareness and preparation for cyclones and floods
in vulnerable communities;
f)   assessment of existing district taluka and mandal level response mechanisms;
g)   examination of the shelters available to the populations of high hazard areas and
assess the shelters suitability and capacity;
h)   recommendations for improving hazard resistance in family housing;
i)   identification of programs for community preparedness; and,
j)   development of a community based Intemet access system.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TORfor Consultancies



16
99.    Activities in Phase 2 will generally be developed from recommendations and proposals
provided by the consultants in Phase 1. After review of the recommendations by the DMC and as
directed by them, the DMU will mutually agree with the consultants the priorities and scheduling
of Phase 2 activities within the overall scope of the study. The consultant will additionally act as
technical auditor for the programs implemented in Phase 2 as explained above. It is expected that
Phase 2 will contain, inter alia, the implementation of:
a)   programs which improve warning effectiveness
b)   alternative and informal warning mechanisms
c)   community based mitigation, preparedness and shelter programs
d)   mitigation and preparedness programs designed with and implemented by trade and
commercial organizations
e)   continued development and assistance in implementing the community-based Internet
access program
REPORTING
100.  The consultants shall submit the following reports to DMU:
a)   Inception report, three weeks after starting date. This report shall, inter alia,
contain any updating of the consultants' approach or work plan as deemed
necessary. The report shall comprise an account of problems met and proposals for
overcoming such problems together with an account of the progress of the project.
b)   Interim Report, three months after the starting date. The Interim report shall, inter
alia, document the progress to date of the project and studies undertaken. Tentative
conclusion, or items which require urgent response will be highlighted in this report.
c)   Phase I final report, six months after starting date. The report shall. inter alia,
address all tasks listed above and submit draft conclusions, recommendations and
proposals, supported by data collected by this project and made available by
concurrent projects and studies under the project. Specific and detailed proposals
for activities in all task areas will be included.
d)   Progress reports shall be submitted at two month intervals. The primary purpose of
these reports shall be to assess progress in programs and activities then under
implementation vis-a-vis the objectives of the project. The reports shall also contain
relevant comments on the project which should be brought to the attention of DMU
and DMC.
JOINT REVIEW
101.  The consultants work will be subject to review by representatives of the DMU and
members of the DMC. The review will be made within four months after starting date and be
based on the documentation in the Interim report as well as on the previous submitted documents.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



17
CLIENTS CONTRIBUTION
102.  Data. The DMU will provide access for the consultants to all relevant data in the
possession of the GOAP, and be instrumental in locating files, maps and documents which the
consultants deem relevant. The DMU will also coordinate acquisition of data from studies and
programs concurrently running under the project and from IMD. DMU will facilitate access to
officials in other parts of GOAP and GOI as appropriate.
103.  Staff The GOAP will provide assistance at the district, taluka and mandal level in order
to facilitate the consultant's access to and examination of the study area and populations, including
a reasonable use of district and mandal personnel to provide liaison between the consultants,
communities and organizations and relevant individuals.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 15: Outline TOR for Consultancies



Attachment 16
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
ECONOMICANALYSIS                       7777 
1. The econonic rationale for cyclone emergency planning and mitigation is based on the premise
that the better the recuperative capacity of an economy - that is the economy's disaster planning
measures to minimize damage and the implementation of post-cyclone recovery operations - the
lower the immediate and long-term damage inflicted on the economy. The degree of local
recuperative capacity to be built is influenced by the vulnerability specific to the region in question.
2. Vulnerability to natural disasters of a particular region depends both on the frequency and
magnitude of these disasters, and on the economic and social profile of the exposed region. Even
though a hurricane may be severe, if it occurs in a unpopulated region with little economic activity,
the impact may be insignificant. Similarly, if an economically developed and densely populated
region is subject to earthquakes having occurred as frequent as once in a century, the low
probability of the incident may not justify investments beyond emergency relief and response. It is
the coexistence of the two aspects of vulnerability - physical and socio-economical - that would
call for mitigation measures.
3. From an economic perspective, investments into local recuperative capacity are deemed to be
beneficial provided that the present value of the averted losses through mitigation measures
outweigh the present value of the cost of mitigation over a specified time period. The costs of
mitigation are defined as the investment costs incurred for the mitigation measures plus the annual
cost of maintenance. Averted losses include the direct and indirect damage - that is the costs to
replace lost or damaged assets and inventories (direct), and induced hardship on population and
long-term impacts on macroeconomic variables (indirect), respectively - that could be prevented
through investment into mitigation. The extent of damage avoided depends on both the physical and
socio-economic vulnerability.
4. Physical Vulnerability. Between 1891 and 1969, about 450 cyclones of various degrees of
intensity - which tended to increase over the years as evidenced by wind velocities - occurred in
the Bay of Bengal, generating damage in the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh,
Orissa, West Bengal and Bangladesh. One or two cyclone storms hit or skirt the 1030 kilometers
long coast of Andhra Pradesh annually. As presented in table 1 below, the coastal districts of
Andhra Pradesh were subjected to 60 cyclone storms during this century, 25 of which were severe
in terms of impact.
5. In addition to the frequency of occurrence, there is a combination of factors that render the
coast of Andhra Pradesh physically vulnerable to cyclones and related storm surges. The low-lying
lands, typical for the Eastern shore of India, permit storm surges, even of a few meters height, to
inundate far into the hinterland, causing widespread flooding and sea water incursion not only in
the coastal region. This natural calamity is exacerbated by man-made physical vulnerability as for
instance the disappearance of mangrove forests due to commercial shrimp farming along the coast.
In places with significant gaps in tree shelter, tidal waves have reached into the hinterland further
than in places with protective vegetation. Moreover, the low permeability of the soils in the Krishna



2
delta combined with poor maintenance of the drainage, that would - if not clogged - ensure the sea
water to flow back to the sea, tend to increase the period and area of submersion.
Table 1 - Cyclones in coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh (1892 - 1984)
District           Cyclone Storms    Severe Cyclone           Total
Storms
Nellore                            11                 7                   18
Prakasam (Ongole)                  4                  3                   7
Guntur                             -                  -                   -
Krishna                             7                 7                   14
West Godavari                       1                 -                   1
East Godavari                      7                  1                   8
Visakhapatnam                      -                  2                   2
Srikakulam                         5                  5                   10
Total                              35                 25                 60
Ref: Naidu, B.R. (1989), Economic Consequences of 1977 Cyclone in Andhra Pradesh, Monograph, Sri
Venkateswara University, Tirupathi, India.
6. Social and Economic Vulnerability. With over 66 million inhabitants, Andhra Pradesh is the
fourth most populous state in India. Much of its population is located in the more prosperous and
fertile districts along the coast, where population densities are in many districts more than twice the
state's average. As presented in table 2 below, human lives lost from severe cyclones during the
past two decades amount to almost 17,000, with almost 100 million people having been affected
either through permanent relocation, temporary loss of shelter or other adversities from cyclones.
Table 2: Damage assessment of major cyclones in Andhra Pradesh (169-1996)
Persons    Persons Affected   % of State GDP   Direct Damage in
Killed                                        1990 prices
(Rs. billion)
May/November 1969           858             N/A.         13.0              14.7
September 1972              100         4,500,000        N/A.             N/A.
November 1976                48             N/A.          5.1               6.9
November 1977             11,316        9,037,400        19.9              29.2
May 1979                    638         1,700,000        12.8              17.0
August-October 1983         155        63,300,000         0.5              11.1
November 1984               565           200,000         0.2               3.4
May 1990                    967         8,000,000         0.8              28.4
June-December 1996         1,716        9,000,000         1.3              60.0
Total                     16,363       95,737,400                         170.7
Ref: Naidu, B.R. (1989), Economic Consequences of 1977 Cyclone in Andhra Pradesh, Monograph, Sri
Venkateswara University, Tirupathi, India.
Implementation Completion Report (1995), India: Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction
Project, The World Bank, Washington, DC.
Governrnent of Andhra Pradesh (1997), Note on Damages /Relief Operations during 1996-97, Revenue
(Relief) Department, GOAP, Hyderabad, India.
IMF (1995), International Financial Statistics.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 16: Economic Analysis



3
' . . ormic activity in the fertile delta region has traditionally been dominated by agriculture, on
vvIiicl, iO percent of the population depend for its livelihood. Yet, agricultural growth has been
stagnuarit through the eighties and early nineties, and has, in terms of its sectoral contribution to
,Yrosa; -,tte domestic product (GSDP), been transcended by the service sector since 1985. Real
fboth the industrial and service sector has doubled during the samne penrod: industnral
t  nm Rs. 16.5 billion in 1980 to Rs.30.2 billion in 1993, and services from Rs.30.3 billion in
11 c.61.5 billion in 1993, as presented in figure I and 2 below.
Gross State Domestic Product (in constant prices, 1980=100)
Figure l: Development by Sector.    Figre 2: Contribution by Sector
,,it],0                             . m0%                              ..     .   .;; .
2 ,,OO (t00            4096 .                                                 Agricuiure
4000                               -;-                                   - - - Industry
t;-- ooofioy ;   -  _ _ _  * - -^ - -                              i .. .....  Services
1980                  1980'i       - 9       19 O5    19
.   ..  ..  ...                   0 % ...     ...............  I     .
OurMip the last twenty years costs inflicted from the most severe cyclones on the economy of
_;Pradesh, amounted to approximately 170 billion Rupees in 1990 prices (approximately
Flv, . t'Jlitj IJS dollars at the current exchange of 35 Rs./US$), as depicted in table 2 above.
( o:-3c%:irmg that the damage assessed for the 1990 and 1996 cyclones amounted already up to two-
a7uj {A{if and two billion US dollars (in current prices), respectively, it may be reasonable to
.l   that the cost of post-cyclone reconstruction are significantly higher today compared to the
pasi  hi .s observation is supported by change of sector-wise GSDP, associated with increased
j     i:; i "o-  tlr.ture development and industrial activity during the decades. Both have rendered,
cxOrr'l 'I with the absence of mitigation planning, the coastal region of Andhira Pradesh
CCO*-,Y, ally more vulnerable.
9  momic Projections. For lack of data on currently proposed project, assumptions with
__e__  tn the frequency of cyclone occurrence and the magnitude of damage averted due to
t'it into mitigation have been made. For the present value of the benefits, averted costs of
daml.: '5 g"ihave been discounted with an annual rate of ten percent over a twenty year period, under
.t. ;i:umptions that two percent, five percent, ten percent, fifteen percent or twenty percent,
resvb'p i - tnv. of the total damage of the 1996 cyclone in Andhra Pradesh could have been avoided
Vwu '' c'urrently proposed mitigation. Moreover, different scenarios of the frequency of cyclone
o c    ice have been made, ranging from the conservative assumption that a cyclone with a
Snm.11"in. Upact as the recent one would only occur once in a century (probability = 0.01), to the
assi  ,boni) that there is a likelihood of the incidence of a cyclone of 30 percent each year
= lit   0.30).
10. Y e v,,pected present value of benefits for the proposed investment into mitigation can hence
be c   : efd as the sum of the discounted averted costs weighted by the probability of occurrence.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 16: Economic Analysis



4
The costs of mitigation for current proposed project have been defined as the sum of thirty pi- m.rrc rll
of the cost of infrastructure restoration and hundred percent of the cost of mitigation (see
attachment 1). Annual costs of ten percent have been assumed for maintenance, discounted ov,.. the
period of twenty years and added to the initial investnent costs. The present value of the mitii .oj
cost would then amount to US$200 million.
11. The area shaded in table 3 below, represent the scenarios where the net benefits are negat> .
over the twenty year period observed. When the probability of a cyclone is assumed to be ten
percent (p=O. 10), the net benefits start become positive when fifteen percent of damage is assninr;(;1
to be prevented by the investmnent. Both assumption are fairly conservative, given that three
cyclones with a comparable damage record have hit the coast of Andhra Pradesh during the last
twenty years, and twenty-five severe cyclones (p=0.25) have affected the coastal districts durinw.
this century. In addition, the percentage of damage prevented in the presence of minor and med. nm
intense cyclones is likely to exceed the twenty percent margin assumed at the top end of these
projections.
Table 3  Present Value of future Averted Costs, by Type of Scenario
Averted
~-   Cost        2%           5%            10%             15%    2:     ,
Probability    \                       (percent of replacement cost)
0.01               3.4         8Si            7.0            25.5          '!
0.05      l       17.         42f6           as. 1          127.7        17    ;
0.10       I      34.1         85.1         170.3           .":
0.15              51. I       127           ."; I            -  l
0.30            102.2       255.4          510.8           766.2       1 I,t,} I
12. Figures 3 to 5 below shows the present value of the vanous averted damage scenarios t0f 6.tE
five, ten and fifteen percent probability options and the present value of the investment and
maintenance cost over time. In comparison to the table above, the graphs also provide infoinal mat.-
on the respective present values at each year of the assumed twenty year time period.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 16: Economic Analysis



5
ligure 3: Present Values of Benefits (Averted Costs) and Costs
overtime, (p=O.10, five damage scenarios)
350
.. . .   .....:
..........................
:. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20%
. . .                            , _  _ ~ ~--             -----15%                . 
..,  .,,_' ..... .....   ......-.-.%..
. . . .   , ,   . _ _ - - ''.. .   ,
8 m.,. .--                 5 % -
n . - ..                             - -.                                       2%.
............                                                        .   -       of hvestment
.....-                                               .. - -  --.
1     3     5     7      9    11    13    15    17    19
Years
13. Taking for instance figure 3 above, one can see as indicated by the vertical lines that, under the
probability that ten cyclones would hit the coastal region of Andha Pradesh (p=O. 10), net benefits
would be materialized in the twenty percent damage avoidance scenario already within five years
and in the fifteen percent damage avoidance scenario within eight-and-a-half years. With the
averted cost curve being steeper than then investment cost curve, one can also see from figure 3,
that net benefits would be realized if a longer time period would be considered. In figure 4 and 5,
net benefits would be materialized in the twenty, fifteen and ten percent scenarios, but not in the
case of only two percent of damage being avoided by the mitigation measures.
Figure 4: Present Values ofBeuelits (Averted Coits) and Costs
wver time, (p=.l5, five damage sceauoi)
,...i ,   . .i   ..........- 
..     ...  --.- ..
.......... .'--:...............                                                  .. -2
.............    ...               
. . . , ,  ;.- - - 1 - - --0 . . . . . .    .
-   0                                                          -  -~.--- -  '----152%.
.,,., ...,,  ..
.....                                                                      W . - '   .   of Investment
c *.-.. .., i..i,.            ,. i
1     3     5      7     9    11    13    15    17    19
Yeats
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 16: EconomicuAnalysis



6
Figumr  5: Present Values of Benefits (Averted Costs) and Costs
over time. (p=0.30, five damage scenarios)
.........
20%
-                   -~~~~~~10%
.                         - .  < -  -  _  .  v   5%
.-  of hIvestment
0  o~  1   _     t  S                 P         r-  ' - I-  - ........ ...........   ... ... .  ..... ...   ......
: 1    3    5  . 7    9    li   13   1 517    19
Years
14. The consideration of alternative type of investments into mitigation have been omitted from
this analysis, mainly because the project in consideration is an emergency lending operation that
requires speedy and immediate implementation, but also because international experience on
hazard prevention and mitigation was included in the project design. Accordingly, the question that
sought to be answered in this analysis is rather if investment into cyclone hazard mitigation would
pay-off in the short and long-run.
15. The assessed damage on which this analysis is based does not include intangible costs like loss
of life, or indirect costs as loss of employment or long-run macroeconomic impacts. The two billion
US Dollars reflect only the direct damage to infrastructure, agriculture, industry and housing
(replacement cost). Despite having omitted these additional costs and given the very conservative
assumptions of the parameters underlying these projections, the proposed investment into
mitigation shows the potential for significant net benefits.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 16: Economic Analysis



Attachment 17
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
Outline of the Procedures for Environmental Screening and Assessment
1.    The GOAP will ensure that sub-project implementing agencies observe systematic
procedures for environmental analysis during project planing and implementation. The Disaster
Management Unit (DMU) will be responsible for providing environmental clearances for each sub-
project supported under the project. Detailed evaluation criteria, recommended checklists,
questionnaires, and other analytical approaches will be developed jointly between the DMU and
other concerned line departments such as Environment and Forests, Irrigation, Roads and
Buildings, Panchayati Raj, State Electricity Board, Environmental Protection Research and
Training Institute (EPRTI) and the Shore Area Development Authority (SADA).
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL BRIEF
2.     Prior to initiation of any disbursement under this project, the concerned implementing
agency will prepare an initial environmental brief for submission to the DMU as part of the overall
sub-project proposal. The purpose of the environmental brief is to provide sufficient information to
the DMU to determine if a project sub-component can proceed or if more detailed environmental
impact assessment (ETA) is required before the proposal can be approved.
3.     The format of the brief should be simple yet comprehensive. It should describe all aspects
of the project proposal and the environmental benefits and adverse impacts which may be
associated with the proposal. Due to the wide range of possible sub-projects, the format should be
flexible. However, the format of the brief should contain certain basic information. At a minimum,
the following elements should be included in the environmental brief:
4.     Sub-Project description. This section should describe the details of the proposed sub-
project(s). It should provide information on the background to the sub-project (i.e., nature and
extent of damages), proposed activities to be funded, and the basic justification and rationale for
the proposal.
5.    Description of environmental concerns. A brief description of likely environmental
irnpacts associated with the proposed activities should be prepared The description could be in the
form of a checklist, impact matrix or other suitable presentation format. The environmental
analysis should address several types of impacts and, where appropriate, should include description
of environmental benefits as well as adverse aspects of the proposal. Potential impacts should be
described under major headings such as (a) land use modification; (b) disturbance to aquatic or
terrestrial habitats; (c) proximity to protected areas, designated zones, or areas of concern (e.g.,
wetland area); (d) air and water pollution; (e) public health; and (f) land acquisition or resettlement
requirements.
6.     The environmental brief should include an appropriate scale reference map(s) clearly
illustrating the location specific context of the project. The map should illustrate significant
terrestrial and aquatic habitats, protected areas, land use, cultural heritage sites or other location
specific information which may be needed to evaluate the possible impacts of the proposal.



2
7.    Description of environmental mitigation. To the extent possible, the environmental brief
should also describe any mitigation activities or alternative approaches which could be undertaken
to offset environmental damages. The section would describe responsibility for implementing any
mitigation plan and should indicate budget and staff needs where appropriate..
INTER DEPARTMENTAL CONSULTATIONS.
8.    Prior to submission of the environmental brief to the DMU, the implementing agency will
carry out inter-departmental consultations with relevant GOAP and GOI agencies that would have
an interest in or be impacted by, the proposed sub-project. Following these consultations, the
implementing agency will submit the package to the DMU for final review and clearance.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW AND CLEARANCE
9.     Each completed sub-project proposal will be reviewed by the environmental specialist of
the DMU. Based on this review, the DMU will determine whether the project can proceed as
described or whether a more detailed environmental impact assessment (EIA) will be required.. If
an EIA is required, the DMU will prepare a detailed terms of reference for this assessment. The
implementing agency will then be required to complete the EIA as defined by the DMU. The ETA
will be subsequently reviewed by the DMU upon its completion. The DMU will rely on the use of
consultants or other independent experts, such as SADA or EPRTI, to review projects with
significant environmental impacts.
10.    The DMU will, in addition, prepare detailed guidelines and criteria to assist in the review
of sub-project proposals. Where sub-projects are determined to have significant environmental
impacts requiring further EIA, an appropriate process for public review and consultation will be
inplemented. The DMU will institute a systematic process for monitoring sub-projects where
environmental issues are considered significant. The details of the monitoring plan will be project
specific and developed as part of the EIA process.
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 17: Environmental Assessments



Attachment 18
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
OBJECTIVE
1.    The primary objective is to repair and strengthen public buildings that house critical
infrastructure and/or fulfill essential public service functions, in order to (i) enable the continued
functioning of critical services during and after a disaster, and (ii) enable them to serve effectively
as shelters during emergencies.
STRATEGY
2.    The strategy proposed consists of: (i) identification of critical public buildings based on the
district vulnerability reduction plan, along with the identification of settlements lacking cyclone and
storm surge resistant buildings; (ii) identification and rehabilitation of buildings that can be
upgraded at limited additional cost; and (iii) identification and repair of buildings that have
suffered extensive damages. The R&B Department and the Panchayati Raj Department will
undertake the implementation of the necessary works. Responsibility for maintenance will fall to
the respective department, in collaboration with the local community through community schemes
such as the Janmabhoomi program.
3.    The prioritization of investments is based on (i) location: emphasis is to be given to
buildings located in high risk areas which have few other pucca buildings that can serve as shelters
during an emergency; (ii) function: focus will be on buildings housing critical functions, such as
hospitals, power generation units, etc.; and (iii) extent of damage: focus will be on buildings that
were badly damaged and whose present state may pose a threat to its users. Restoration of school
buildings was given a high priority since they are not only centers for learning, but are often the
only permanent public facility in a settlement and a wide range of social and developmental
activities tend to revolve around them. Speedy restoration of damaged schools will help in
restoring the normal functioning of these activities.
PROPOSALS
4.    The estimated cost of the proposed restoration of damaged buildings maintained by the
R&B Department totals Rs 101 million (see Table 1 below). The estimated cost of the proposed
restoration of damaged buildings maintained by the Panchayati Raj Department is also presented in
Table 1.



2
Table I - Proposals for Public Buildings
Name of                           R&B                    Panchayati Raj
District                       Department                 Department
Si                                        No. of         Cost        No. of        Cost
No                                       Buildings    (Rs in Lakhs)   Buildings   (Rs in Lakhs)
1    East Godavari                          15         180.00          33         106.00
2    West Godavari                          9           138.50         45          98.00
3    Prakasam                               2           20.00          45          90.00
4    Nellore                                10          50.00          40          80.00
5    Chittoor                               15          117.00         71         119.70
6     Cuddapah                              5           19.00          45          90.00
7     Ananthapur                            25          48.00          48          96.00
8    Kurnool                                7           62.00         131          90.30
9    RangaReddy                             3           40.00          35          70.00
10   Medak                                  6           30.00          35          70.00
11   Karimnagar                             11          30.00          35          70.00
12   Adilabad                               9           27.00         103          70.00
13   Warangal                              29           40.00          35          70.00
14   Khamman                                18          50.00          40          80.00
15   Hyderabad                             26          158.50         -             -
TOTAL                                190        1,010.00        741        11200.00
AP Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Attachment 18: Public Buildings



Attachment 19
AP HAZARD MITIGATION AND EMERGENCY CYCLONE RECOVERY PROJECT
LIST OF MATEIALS TIN PROJECT FLq  E7                                 77]
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1995. Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate
Zone A Areas: a Guide for Obtaining and Developing Base (100 Year) Flood Elevations. Washington, DC:
FEMA (No. 265).
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1994. Mitigation of Flood and Erosion Damage to Residential
Buildings in Coastal Areas. Washington, DC: FEMA (No. 257)
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1993. Building Performance: Hurricane Iniki in Hawaii.
Washington, DC: FEMA. (FIA-23).
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1992. Building Performance: Hurricane Andrew in Florida.
Washington, DC: FEMA and Federal Insurance Administration. (FIA-22)
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1992. Floodplain Management in the United States: an
Assessment Report. (Vol. 1: Summary Report & Vol. 2: Full Report) Washington, DC: Federal Interagency
Foodplain Management Task Force. (FIA- 18).
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1989. Conceptual Framework and Basic Strategies for
Implementing a Unified National Program for Floodplain Management. Washington, DC: FEMA (No. 168).
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1987. Reducing Losses in High Risk Flood Hazard Areas: a
Guidebook for Local Officials. Washington, DC: FEMA (No. 116).
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 1986. Coastal Construction Manual. Washington, DC: FEMA
(No. 55).
GOAP. n.d. "Project Report on Provision of Investmnent Credit in Areas Affected by Floods / Cyclone during October
/ November 1996." Hyderabad, AP: Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOAP. 1997. Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project - 1996 (Project Proposal, March,
1997). Hyderabad, AP: Government of Andhra Pradesh.
GOAP. 1997. Working Plan for Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Recovery Project - 1996 (Draft Project
Implementation Plan, March, 1997). Hyderabad, AP: Government of Andhra Pradesh.
GOAP, Revenue Department. 1997. "Notes on Damages / Relief Operations During 1996-97" (February 15, 1997).
Hyderabad, AP: Government of Andhra Pradesh.
GOAP, Finance and Planning Department. 1996. Prajala Vaddaku Paalana, Sramadanam and Microlevel
Planning: Guidelines. (December 17, 1996). Hyderabad, AP: Government of Andhra Pradesh.
GOAP, Irrigation and Command Area Development Department. n.d. "Proposals for the Restoration of Damaged
Minor Irrigation Sources Due to Floods and Cyclones from 6/96 - 11/96 for World Bank Aid." Hyderabad:
Government of Andhra Pradesh.
GOAP, Revenue Department. 1987. Cyclone Contingency Plan of Action. Hyderabad, AP: Government of Andhra
Pradesh.
Subrahmanyan, S. and P. Padmanabha Rao. 1996. Impact of Investment under the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone
Emergency Reconstruction Project. Hyderabad, AP: Center for Economic and Social Studies.
TARU. 1996. "Andhra Cyclone Identification Mission: Final Report (Nov. 28/96)." New Delhi, India: TARU
Research and Information Network.






IMAGING
Report No.' -  -      7100   IN
Type:      w -, A 1t



