Report No. PIC4980
Project Name           India-Proposed Andhra Pradesh Hazard Mitigation      rod) 
and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Multisector
Project ID                       INPE49301
Borrower                         Government of Andhra Pradesh
Implementing Agency              Project Management Unit
Finance and Planning Department
Andhra Pradesh Secretariat
Hyderabad, INDIA
Attention: Additional Secretary
Date Prepared                    01/29/97
Projected Appraisal Date         02/12/97
Projected Board Date             05/06/97
1.      Circumstances of the Disaster. Andhra Pradesh (AP) is India's
fifth largest state, with an area of 274,000 square kilometers, and
the fourth most populous one, with about 66 million inhabitants in
1991. The densely populated coastal districts, spread over 1,030
kilometers of coastline on the Bay of Bengal, share the fertile
deltas of the Godavari and the Krishna, two of India's largest
rivers. Coastal AP is probably the most vulnerable region in India
to tropical storms. All nine coastal districts, along with four
adjoining inland districts, are subject to frequent cyclones, storm
surges and floods. Overdevelopment and denuding of coastal zones of
their protective vegetation belts have resulted in increased
vulnerability. The deadliest disaster in the last 20 years was the
November 1977 cyclone, which killed about 10,000 people. More
recently, the May 1990 cyclone, with a death toll of about 1,000
people, caused about US$1.25 billion in damage.
2.      Andhra Pradesh experienced a series of cyclones, storm surges
and floods between June and November 1996. The most recent cyclone,
whose wind speeds reached between 200 to 250 kilometers per hour
and gave way to a storm surge of up to 2.2 meters, hit AP during
the evening of November 6, entering the mainland south of the port
of Kakinada. About 1,057 people died and 900 were reported missing.
Most seriously affected were the coastal districts of East and West
Godavari, followed by the adjoining Krishna and Khammam districts.
The economic impact of the latest cyclone on the economy of AP is
significant, with losses, totaling about US$1.5 billion,
represented in substantial damage to housing, municipal and rural
infrastructure, agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry.
3.      The emergency response was rapid and effective. The Army, the
Navy and the Air Force authorities led search and rescue. About 800
relief camps were established, and more than 200,000 persons were
evacuated. Relief assistance by the government and NGOs to the
affected population was begun promptly. Few families needed to stay



long in the cyclone shelters, as they quickly reconstructed their
wattle and daub structures with official financial help. Revenue
staff had been deputed to deal with the rehabilitation efforts by
November 9. The Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) called for the
donations to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister s Cyclone Relief
Fund, 1996, and requested outside help.
4.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. After the May 9, 1990,
cyclone, the Bank approved the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency
Reconstruction Project, totaling US$265 million, which improved
infrastructure standards of restored assets successfully, but fell
short in the establishment of mitigation measures and integrated
delta and coastal zone management. Given the recurrence and
frequency of cyclone and flood disasters, a concerted effort is
still required to link effectively rehabilitation to long-term
mitigation plans. This is directly related to: (i) the Bank s
criteria for providing emergency recovery assistance (OP 8.50),
specifically the frequency of recurring emergencies in AP and the
prospects for reducing damages in the future; and (ii) the benefits
of long-term disaster management versus the costs of repeated
short-term post-disaster reconstruction. Bank involvement would
emphasize long-term cyclone hazard reduction planning as a
prerequisite for the sustainability of physical investments in need
of replacement and/or reconstruction.
5.      Project Objectives. Any future investment in coastal AP is
non-sustainable in the absence of comprehensive cyclone and flood
management. In view of the exorbitant economic and social costs of
recurring disasters, the proposed project adopts long-term disaster
management as the guiding principle of recovery. The project
objectives are thus to assist the GOAP in (i) preparing and
implementing long-term cyclone and flood hazard management in high
risk areas with enhanced local community participation, and (ii)
restoring lost public infrastructure within an implementing
framework that incorporates improved design criteria, cyclone- and
flood-resistant siting, and construction and quality control
measures.
6.      Proposed Components and Their Estimated Costs. The tentative
total project cost would be US$180 million in 1996 prices,
including contingencies. It would finance (i) the comprehensive
cyclone and flood management program, which would include inter
alia: regional protocol for cyclone forecasting and early warning
systems for floods; integrated coastal zone management including
delta and flood control structure management; capacity building of
GOAP agencies for disaster response; and public education,
awareness raising and disaster planning information dissemination;
and (ii) investment components, which would include the repair and
reconstruction of: cyclone shelters and tree shelter belts;
irrigation, drainage and flood control structures; minor
irrigation; roads and bridges; power; harbor facilities; State and
Panchayati Raj public buildings; and municipal roads and drainage.
7.      Project Financing. The proposed IDA and IBRD credit/loan
would finance about 67T of the total project cost. Bank funds would
- 2-



finance eligible expenditures, excluding taxes and duties.
8.      Project Implementation. As specified by the Bank s guidelines
for emergency recovery assistance, the project would last three
years. The GOAP would prepare a policy framework outlining the
method of financing public infrastructure, the hazard reduction
planning approach, and project implementation arrangements. The
project would be implemented through a Project Management Unit
(PMU). The head of the PMU, given fully delegated powers to decide
on all project-related management issues, would grant
administrative and financial sanctions, and approve contracts for
procurement without a limiting value threshold. Investment
components from all GOAP departments would be approved by the PMU,
without referring to the Planning or Finance Departments. A high-
level Steering Committee headed by the Chief Secretary of the GOAP
would review and monitor the implementation process and clear any
bottlenecks. The PMU would prepare a project implementation plan
showing departmental responsibilities and their procurement plans.
Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank s guidelines. The
project management plan would include performance indicators for
the investment components and the hazard reduction program. The
latter would be developed and supervised by qualified international
consultants. Infrastructure restoration would be financed provided
that their design includes structural mitigation. Internationally
experienced quality assurance consultants would also be appointed
to check designs and construction, and to assist the GOAP in
capacity building to ensure that standards are always enforced.
9.      Benefits and Risks. The main benefit would be the
establishment of long-term cyclone and flood hazard reduction
measures that would lessen future disaster impacts. The major risk
would be that the GOAP would focus on short-term infrastructure
restoration while delaying or failing to undertake hazard reduction
programs. This risk would be mitigated by sensitizing the GOAP on
the importance of hazard reduction, preparing the appropriate TORs,
providing the shortlists of suitable consulting firms, ensuring
that the consultants for hazard reduction management are selected
and appointed as soon as possible and that the funds earmarked for
long-term hazard reduction studies, planning and management
activities are made ineligible for reallocation to other
components.
Contact Point:           Jelena Pantelic, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No: (202) 473-9377
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Physical characteristics (e.g., low-lying terrain and soil types),
social and economic factors (e.g., high concentration of
population, infrastructure, and economic activities), and the
absence of disaster management, have resulted in increased
vulnerability to cyclones and floods in Andhra Pradesh. Coastal
zone is being overdeveloped and denuded of its protective
vegetation belts (which act as natural barriers against storm
surges and high winds) and are being converted into aquaculture
farms or depleted for fuel wood. Due to these activities and the
inadequate maintenance of infrastructure, damage to the state from
cyclones and floods has been exceptionally high and would continue
to grow unchecked if hazard reduction measures are not implemented
as a matter of priority. No resettlement will occur in the course
of the project.
The project approaches natural hazard reduction and long-term
mitigation within the framework of environmental management,
including:
1. Cyclone and flood management studies necessary to develop action
plans and to determine the appropriate institutional framework for
coastal, delta and watershed management.
2. Repair and reconstruction of irrigation canals and drains.
3. Mitigation works, included in the restoration component, to
support watershed management and planting of coastal tree shelter
belts.
4. School buildings doubling as cyclone shelters.
5. Community involvement in maintenance of drains and other
elements of flood protection and irrigation systems through direct
participation of the communities, and the use of the Vulnerability
Reduction Fund.
6. Environmental monitoring by the Andhra Pradesh Disaster Management
Unit (FMU). The bulk of physical investment is in the realm of repair and
reconstruction of damaged or destroyed assets, not in new construction.
By emphasizing an integrated approach to delta and coastal zone management
connected to the flood and cyclone disaster management planning, the
project would contribute to reducing harmful practices that impact
adversely coastal plains. In addition to saving lives and reducing
property losses in the future, the project would improve the quality of
the environment by supporting watershed and coastal management, thereby
helping to control natural resource depletion and improve drainage
conditions.
-4-



