Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2950 -IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Hazard Mitigation and Emergency Cyclone Recovery Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  June 3,  1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2950 -IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1997, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower), and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). WHEREAS 
(A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)
Parts A.1, B and C of the Project will be carried out by State of Andhra 
Pradesh (Andhra Pradesh) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Andhra Pradesh part of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
amount equal to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) (the Loan); and
      (D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank  and Andhra Pradesh;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
      “Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in  the territories 
of any country which is 
not a member of the Association or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
      (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
      “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the  Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to  make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such  
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.”
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)
“Affected Areas” means the districts of East Godavari, West Godavari, 
Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, Cuddapah, Chitoor, Anantapur, Kurnool, Adilabad, 
Warangal, Karimnagar, Khammam, Medak, Ranga Reddy, and Visakhapatnam in Andhra 
Pradesh;
      (b)
“Andhra Pradesh” means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a State of India, or 
any successor thereto;
      (c)
“Disaster Mitigation Council” means the council to be created by Andhra 
Pradesh with the Chief Minister as chairman to set policy agenda, conduct periodic 
Page  3
reviews and approve action plans for long-term hazard reduction in Andhra Pradesh;
      (d)
“District Disaster Management Committees” means the committees to be 
established in accordance with paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement at district level throughout Andhra Pradesh to coordinate community 
mobilization and to be responsible for local level hazard reduction activities;
      (e)
“DMU” means the Disaster Management Unit to be established in accordance 
with paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement in the Andhra 
Pradesh Department of Finance and Planning, under the Finance Secretary for the 
purposes of managing and monitoring and evaluating Part A.1, 2 and 3 of the Project 
and hazard mitigation activities in Andhra Pradesh;
      (f)
“Hazard Mitigation Policy” means the policy statement concerning 
long-term mitigation against further disasters to be issued by Andhra Pradesh and 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
      (g)
“IMD” means Indian Meteorological Department under the Ministry of 
Science and Technology of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
      (h)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
      (i)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; and
      (j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. ARTICLE II The Credit Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to 
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-two million, 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to 
the Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2007 and ending January 15, 2032.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2017, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
      (c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification.
      (d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Part A.2 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate  administrative, 
and financial practices, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, 
the funds and services required for Part A.2 
of the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause Andhra Pradesh to perform 
in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
Page  5
obligations of Andhra Pradesh 
therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Andhra Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any other action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
       (b) 
the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of carrying out Parts A.1, B and C of the Project in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to 
the States of India. Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, B 
and C of the Project shall be carried out by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.04 
of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower, through IMD shall provide by no later than July 1, 
1997 an action plan to the Association for the carrying out of Part A.2 of the 
Project, take into account the Association’s comments thereon, and thereafter promptly 
carry out Part A.2 of the Project, (enhancement of the cyclone early warning system) 
to be completed by no later than December 31, 1999.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A.2 of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part A.2 of the 
Project.
      (b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
      (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
      (b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Andhra Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that, all the conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of  the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than  those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
       Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Andhra Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Andhra 
Pradesh  in accordance with its terms.
       Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Page  7
New Delhi,  PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
   ECOFAIRS
       953-3166175
   New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
   INTBAFRAD
       248423 (MCI) or
   Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert S. Drysdale
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be  financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the  allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                   Amount of the
  Amount of the
                 Credit Allocated   Loan Allocated
  % of
                  (Expressed in
  (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category
    SDR Equivalent)
     Dollars)      to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
                         70%
(a)
Part A.2 of
1,200,000
the Project
(b)
Other
      32,600,000
   23,500,000
(2)
Goods
                                100% of foreign
Page  8
                  expenditures, 100%
(a)
Part A.2 of
9,000,000
    of local expendi-
the Project
           tures (ex-factory
                                                           cost) and 80% of
                                                           local expendi-
(b)
Other
      10,600,000
   12,000,000     tures for other
                  items procured
                                                           locally
(3)
Consultants’
                          100% 
services, studies
and training
(a)
Part A.2 of
  100,000
the Project
(b)
Other
      11,200,000
    7,800,000
(4)
Incremental
       1,200,000
      800,000       80% through
operating costs
             March 31, 1998;
                    60% through
                    March 31, 1999;
                           and 25% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
       6,200,000
    5,900,000
     ___________
 ____________
TOTAL
      72,100,000
   50,000,000
      ==========
  ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, office space, administration, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs and salaries of additional staff by DMU for the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR10,800,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1 through 4 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after November 6, 1996.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, and works under contracts not exceeding $300,000 
equivalent, (b) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for 
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual 
consultants, respectively, (c) training and fellowships, (d) works procured under 
direct contracting, force account or community participation, and (e) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist Andhra Pradesh in (i) the 
preparation and implementation of a long-term natural hazard management program; and 
(ii) the restoration of public infrastructure in the Affected Areas; and (b) enhance 
Page  9
the Borrower’s early warning capabilities for cyclone and wind forecasting.
      The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Hazard Management Program
1.
Establishment of a framework for the preparation and implementation of a 
sustainable, long-term natural hazard management program for coastal, delta and 
watershed management in high risk zones to reduce losses that may result from natural 
hazards including:
(i)
carrying out of cyclone and flood management studies;
(ii)
coastal mapping for storm surge analysis, hazard zone mapping and 
planning of 
mitigation activities; and
(iii)
establishment of a vulnerability reduction fund to provide 
matching grant 
funds for hazard reduction activities 
undertaken by communities.
2.
Enhancement of the Borrower’s cyclone early warning capacity at certain weather 
stations on the east coast of the Borrower through the provision of six Doppler radar 
systems, other meteorological equipment, and training.
Part B:
Restoration of Public Infrastructure
Repair and reconstruction in the Affected Areas of infrastructure, according to 
enhanced design and construction standards, including:
(a)
Power
Repair and strengthening of the transmission and distribution network; 
(b)
Irrigation
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage systems and 
flood banks in the delta areas;
       (c)
Roads and Bridges
       Repair and reconstruction of damaged state and rural roads and damaged bridges;
(d)
Public Buildings
Reconstruction and repair of collapsed or damaged public buildings such as 
schools, health centers and hospitals in selected districts; and
(e)
Mitigation Works
Improvement of watershed management in critically water starved areas, repair 
and construction of cyclone shelters and the planting of tree shelter belts. 
Part C:
Technical Assistance
(a)
Institutional strengthening of certain agencies in Andhra Pradesh for 
Project management and implementation.
(b)
Carrying out design checks, quality assurance and certification, 
technical audits and design of hazard mitigation works, through the provision of 
consultants’ services.
(c)
Improvement of Andhra Pradesh’s capacity to respond to cyclone and flood 
disasters and the raising of public disaster awareness including training in hazard 
reduction activities.
Page  10
(d)
Improvement of the communications system for disaster mitigation. 
* *
 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided under paragraphs 2 through 5 below in the case of works and 
paragraph 6 in the case of goods, goods estimated to cost $25,000 or more per contract 
and $11,100,000 or less in the aggregate and works may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Works which are required to respond promptly to natural disasters and costing 
$25,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $5,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works required for Part B of the Project and to be carried out by communities 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  11
Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $25,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
6.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $1,000,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and consultants’ services for carrying out coastal mapping up 
Page  12
to an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more and each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to twelve 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($12,500,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 28,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Page  13
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which  
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  14
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
