Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2619-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FIFTH LOAN
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK FOR MAURITIUS
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF MAURITIUS
December 6, 1979
This document bhs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY E9UIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                  May 1979
Unit                -        Maurttian Rupee (Rs)   -  Naurittan Rupee (Rs)
US$1                -        Rs 6.14                 -   Rs 6.05
Rs l,QOO                    US$162.86               -   US$165.28
Rs 1,000,000        -        US$162,866.44           -   US$165,289.25
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 - Rs 6.14) *
ABBREVIATIONS
DBN      - Development Bank of Naurittus
BADEA    - Banque Arabe pour le Developpein;tvk  Economique
en Afrique
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
* Note:  Subsequent to the analysis presented in this report and after
negotiation of this project, on October 23, 1979, the Mauritian
Rupee was devalued by twenty-three percent (23%) against the SDR;
the current rate of exchange is Rs 7.7698   US$1.00 (see footnote,
para 36).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS - FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM)
Guarantor:           Mauritius
Amount:              US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
of the amortization schedules of the sub-loans for medium
and large-scale operations and fixed schedules of repay-
ment by DBM of loan funds used to finance equity invest-
ments and artisan/small-scale sub-loans, but not exceeding
a period of 17 years. Interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
Relending Terms      DBM would relend the proceeds of the loii at an annual
to Sub-Borrowers:  interest rate of 12 percent, except for artisans and
small-scale sub-borrowers receiving loans of less than
Rs 25,000 for which the relending rate would be 9 percent.
Repayment of the subloans would be over periods of up to
15 years, with appropriate grace periods. DBM's medium
and large scale sub-borrowers would carry the foreign
exchange risk between the rupee and the dollar. The
Government would carry the exchange risk between the
dollar and the disbursement currencies and all the
exchange risk for the artisan and the small-scale
sub-borrowers.
Prolect              The project would assist DBM in financing directly or
Description:        through Mauritian-owned commercial banks the foreign
exchange component of loans and investments in industry,
agro-industry and tourism. It would also help cover the
foreign exchange component of artisan and small scale
enterprises' investment needs.
Estimated Resource
Requirements:                 Year      Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
FY80     2.12         5.70       7.82
FY81     2.61         4.23       6.84
FY82     2.61         5.21       7.82
Total    7.34        15.14      22.48
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:               Slowdown in investment demand could result from
Government's inability to effectively control wage
increases, local labor problems, transportation diffi-
culties and failure of industrial promotion efforts
directed at European investors.
Financing Plan: 1/                    Local       Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)-------
Resources available 6/30/79           2.12          7.00         9.12
New equity contributions              1.79           -           1.79
Net cash generation and
loan collections plus
Government borrowings               3.42           -           3.42
IBRD 2/                                 -           4.00         4.00
Other foreign sources                   -           4.14         4.14
7.33        15.14        22.47
Estimated
Disbursement:        Fiscal Year        US$ million      Cumulative US$ million
1981               0.7                    0.7
1982               2.7                    3.4
1983               2.2                    5.6
1984               0.4                    6.0
Rate of Return:      n.a.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2544-MAS dated November 27, 1979
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
1/   Not adjusted for devaluation.
2/   DBM's resource requirements and financing plan exclude the commercial
bank financing component (see para 58).



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FIFTH LOAN TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MAURITIUS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
fifth loan to the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) with the guarantee
of Mauritius, for the equivalent of US$6.0 million to help provide foreign
exchange for industry, agro-industry, tourism and the investment needs of
artisan and small scale enterprises. The loan would have a term substantially
in conformity with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of sub-loans
for medium and large-scale operations and fixed schedules of repayment by
DBM of loan funds used to finance equity investments and artisan/small-
scale sub-loans, but not exceeding a period of 17 years, with interest at
7.95 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report on the economy of Mauritius was circulated
to the Executive Directors on February 22, 1978. Subsequently the fiscal
situation was reviewed by a special study mission in late 1978. An economic
mission to study current developments and assess medium term prospects has
just returned from the country.  Below is a summary of recent economic develop-
ments. Country social and economic data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        Mauritius is a small, densely populated island, with an economy that
is still largely monocultural and heavily dependent on sugar production for
exports. A number of favourable developments, however, have occurred since
the beginning of the present decade: population growth has been kept in check,
a pragmatic approach enabled the Government to lay the basis for diversifying
manufacturing and agriculture and expansion of tourism opened up new employment
opportunities. A successful family planning program was started in the early
1960s, as a result of which population growth was cut to a rate of only 1.3
percent a year by the mid-1970s.
4.        The sluggishness of the sugar market and physical constraints on
further expansion of the sugar industry that were being felt led to active
efforts by the Government to reduce the dependence of the economy on sugar.
In its two Plans for Social and Economic Development (1971-75 and 1975-80)
it embarked on a program of industrialization and promotion of tourism,
relying on generous incentives and an Export Processing Zone to stimulate
local enterprise and attract foreign investors. Real GNP increased at an
average annual rate of 8.2 percent between 1970 and 1977. This rapid economic
expansion was greatly aided by the world sugar boom leading to an improvement



-2-
of about 60 percent in the terms of trade during 1972-75. Over the four years
ending in 1975 gross domestic income went up by nearly two-thirds and, in turn,
helped accelerate the growth of manufacturing, construction and service sectors
and raise real wages. The rate of investment rose from only 13 percent in 1970
to a peak of 36 percent in 1976. With the downturn in international sugar
prices, however, high rates of investment and growth have become increasingly
difficult to sustain. In 1978 the rate of growth slowed down to only 3.6 percent.
Even so GNP per capita during the year reached US$830.
5.        The rapid growth in production was accompanied by a very satisfactory
increase in employment. Recorded employment in establishments with 10 or more
employees rose from 147,000 in 1972 to 195,000 in 1977. There is evidence
that unrecorded employment in smaller establishments grew correspondingly.
Registered unemployment fell to 5 percent of the estimated labor force in
November 1978 and occasional shortages of unskilled labor are being felt for
sugarcane cutting and for work on night shifts. The demand for skilled labor
has also been outstripping the supply. Despite the success in expanding employ-
ment, Mauritius still has some unemployment that is proving hard to eliminate,
the more so because of the slowing down of the pace of growth.
6.        Deficiencies in education and training are a major constraint to
development. Schools do not provide adequate training for the jobs available.
Shortages of trained workers have already slowed down the expansion of the
construction industry, and employers in industry and tourism have difficulty
in finding qualified workers. At present, job training is carried out inde-
pendently by various employers in the economy and individual factories without
much coordination. In order to raise industrial productivity and to attract
more new industries to Mauritius, in particular those requiring higher skills,
it would be necessary to adopt a more systematic approach to practical training.
7.        Mauritius has also been experiencing labor problems, especially in
the transport sector. In particular, the port has suffered from constant strikes,
resulting in shipping delays. Because of the rapid rise in workers' earnings,
profits are being squeezed in a wide range of enterprises and some have begun
to lay off workers. In fact, manufacturing output showed no increase in 1978.
8.        The distribution of income in Mauritius has fluctuated considerably
on account of the changes in sugar prices. The share of employees' compensation
in GNP increased from 50 percent in 1971 to 64 percent of GNP in 1977, and this
share may have increased further, albeit marginally, in 1978. The Government
allowed wages to increase sharply and directed a large part of its current
expenditures towards transfers and food subsidies. This was initially
facilitated by high profits in 1974 and 1975, mostly in the sugar industry,
and the consequent rapid growth of tax revenues.  This favorable situation has
since changed, the unit value of sugar exports fell to US$368.8 per ton in
1978 from a peak of US$516.7 per ton in 1975 and the terms of trade of Mauritius
have returned to roughly what they were in 1972. The economic slowdown in the
developed countries has also affected Mauritius' other exports. As a result of
these international factors and because of rising wages in the domestic economy,
profits have probably been squeezed in most sectors of the Mauritian economy.



-3-
9.        The fiscal situation has deteriorated sharply over the past three
years as the Government was unable to restrain the momentum of budgetary
spending despite the adverse impact on revenues of the downturn in world
sugar prices and lower profit levels. Government recurrent expenditure more
than doubled to Rs 1722 million between 1974/75 and 1978/79. This sharp rise
in recurrent expenditure reflects partly the rapid growth of its wage and
salary component, which increased from Rs 231 million in 1974/75 to an esti-
mated Rs 625 million in 1978/79. But pressure on recurrent spending was also
exerted by the social services system, which includes free medical services
and food subsidies. Water and fertilizers were subsidized as well out of the
Government budget. In 1978/79 food subsidies amounted to Rs 180 million and
the water subsidy to Rs 58 million. The size of the capital budget too increased
with accelerated investment spending, growing from Rs 171 million in 1974/75
to Rs 667 million in 1978/79. Moreover, since 1976/77 there has been a shift
in its composition away from economic infrastructure to social capital outlays,
particularly on housing, education and water supply.
10.       With rising total budgetary expenditure  reaching about 40 percent
of GDP in 1978 while revenues lagged far behind, the overall financing gap
widened from Rs 535 million in 1975/76 to Rs 953 million in 1978/79. In fact
since 1976/77 the recurrent budget surplus has turned into a deficit as revenue
measures proved to be inadequate, the tax-GDP ratio declining from 24.0 to 21.7
percent between 1976/77 and 1978/79. It is becoming more difficult now to
raise revenue resources on an adequate scale without changing the tax structure
and strengthening tax administration. Partly for this reason the Government
has been attempting to effect economies in recurrent expenditure; and the budget
for 1979/80 eliminated water and fertilizer subsidies.
11.       A substantial proportion of the rising overall budget deficit since
1976/77 - ranging from 25 to 47 percent - was financed through recourse to
Central Bank advances. And outstanding net domestic credit increased by as
much as 75 percent between 1976 and 1978 largely on account of the sharp rise in
net claims on Government. Declining foreign exchange reserves, however,
considerably dampened the impact of rapid credit expansion on money supply,
which increased by 32 percent over this period. Similar credit and monetary
trends persisted over the twelve-month period ending in June 1979.
12.       The balance of payments, which in earlier years had been mcre or
less in equilibrium, recorded a large surplus of US$55 million in 1974, and
a similar sizeable surplus the following year. Since 1976, however, Mauritius
has been experiencing severe and persistent balance of payments difficulties
owing to the termination of the sugar boom and excessive credit expansion
resulting from widening budget deficits. The Government sought to protect the
balance of payments through selective credit controls, higher interest rates,
recourse to IMF facilities and foreign borrowing on commercial terms. Mauritius
drew SDRll.0 million under the compensatory financing facility in July 1977
and a standby credit of SDR8.0 million in January 1979. It also obtained
Trust Fund loans amounting to SDR9.1 million. In addition, two loans (US$37.0
and US$50.0 million) were raised in the Euro-dollar market. These me!asures,
however, were unsuccessful in preventing the deterioration of the balance of
payments. The current account deficit more than trebled from US$36.4 million
in 1976 to US$119.7 million in 1978. As a consequence gross foreign exchange



-4-
reserves have been falling substantially, from US$166 million at the end of
1975 to US$40 million (less than four weeks.' imports) in September 1979.  On
October 23, 1979, the Government devalued the rupee by 23 percent against the
SDR. It also negotiated a standby agreement with the TIMF under which it will
draw SDR73 million (SDRl9 million in the higlher credit tranches and SDR54
million under the supplementary financirg. facility) to support a financial
stabilization program.
13.       Prospects for further growth of the economy would depend, to a large
extent, on the success of the stabilization program in restoring internal and
external financial equilibrium as well as on future world sugar prices. Con-
tinued industrialization should sustain the expansion of the economy. The pace
of growth over the medium term future may at most reach 4 percent per year,
although in the event of another sugar boom higher levels of investment and
rates of growth could conceivably become feasible.
14.       Gross disbursements of Government and Government guaranteed loans
averaged US$27 million annually during 1974-78. In 1978 the level of disburse-
ments reached US$82 million, or four times as much as in the preceding year,
due, for the most part, to foreign borrowing on commercial terms. The total
outstanding and disbursed debt too increased sharply, rising from US$68
million in 1977 to US$151 million the following year. About 15 percent of the
outstanding disbursed debt at the end of 1978 was held by IBRD and 12 percent
by IDA. The debt service ratio though still small has been increasing owing
to the growing size and harder average terms of external debt; it went up from
just 1 percent in 1976 to 2.4 percent in 1978, and will probably be of the order
of 3 percent in 1979. Very preliminary projections, based on the findings of
the recent economic mission, indicate that, in the absence of sustained and
rigorous action to improve the balance of payments, debt service ratio could
reach 25 percent by the mid 1980s. However, the balance of payments and hence
debt service are highly sensitive to sugar prices and government policies.
Greater fiscal discipline combined with restraint on imports of non-essential
consumption goods and unproductive investment, such as residential construction,
could greatly reduce the resource gap, growth of external debt and the burden
of servicing it in the coming years. There is a risk of Mauritius' credit-
worthiness being exhausted unless appropriate remedial measures are adopted by
the Government. We believe that the Government is aware of the problem, and
expect it to take steps for more effective management of the economy.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       To date Mauritius has received five IDA credits and eight Bank
loans (including one loan on Third Window terms) totalling US$94.5 million
to help finance projects in industry (US$22.5 million), utilities (US$22
million), infrastrucl:tre (US$18.6 million), agriculture (US$9.2 million)
and education (US$22.2 million). IFC made a loan in 1971 for hotel con-
struction tnad Is presently considering a second project in the same sector.
Implementation of the education, power, industrial and port projects is
generally satisfactory.   Phase I of the rural development program has just
been completed. On the other hand, the tea project has encountered problems
caused by falling international tea prices, inadequacies in project management
and equipment and lack of interest from laborers to work on tea p4ai-ations
and from smallholders to take over tea plots. The profitability of the tea
industry in Mauritius has declined to the point where it is now doubitful
whether a fundamental change in the industry, including the phasing out of
some tea operations, can be avoided. Annex II contains a summary stiatement of
Bank Group operations in Mauritius as of October 31, 1979 as well as notes on
the status of execution of ongoing projects.
16.       The Bank Group's support for DBM's industrial development operations
started in 1972 with an IDA credit of US$3.5 million (Credit 313-MAS) to DBM.
This credit has been fully disbursed. In 1973, IDA made a second credit of
US$4.0 million (Credit 411-MAS) to help finance DBM's investments in an
industrial estate at Coromandel. In 1974, the Bank made a loan of US$5.0
milli-on (Loan 979-MAS) to DBM for industrial lending, which has also been
fully disbursed, and in 1975 DBM received a second Bank loan of US$7.5 'liLlion
(Loan 1168-MAS). In June 1977 IBRD made a loan of US$7.5 million (Loan
1481-MAS) which included US$5.0 million for industrial and tourism financing
and US$3.0 million for mechanization/modernization of the sugar sector. Funds
for non-sugar operations have been fully committed with about US$3.0 million
dishlursed. Commitment of funds for sugar operations has begun.
17.       In its audit report of June 20, 1978 (Report No. 2101) concerning
the first DBM line of credit, the Operations Evaluation Department concluided
that the broad objectives of this first credit were successfully met.  The
technical assistance provided by the Bank Group in restructuring DBM and
redefining its policies made a positive contribution to DBM's support of
the Government's objie 7ves of industrial diversification and employment
generation. It was found that DBM operated autonomously as a development
finance institution, although a Government-owned bank. Moreover, the credit
allowed DBM to meet the foreign exchange requirements of industrial and
tourism investors seeking to invest in Mauritius.  This first credit, as well
as subsequent loans and credits, allowed the Bank Group to provide valuable
teshnical assistance to DBM.  Thus DBM has developed into bQth a technically
competent and capable institution and one that is financially sound and
creditworthy, capable of taking a lead in the industrial de-voi.I)pment of the
Mauritian economy.



-6-
18.       The Bank's program of lending to Mauritius will continue to concen-
trate on supporting the Government's strategy of economic diversification and
employment creation through the development of industry. Growing industrializa-
tion has resulted in a greater need for infrastrLctural improvements, and we
intend, therefore, to participate in projects designed to improve and expand
public infrastructure and related institutions. In the immediate future, a
first highway project to improve the connection between the international
airport at Plaisance with the capital city of Port Louis, is planned. Follow-
ing the recent Government decision to strengthen the Central Water Authority's
financial position by allowing an increase in water tariffs, we are now
actively processing a water supply project for consideration by the Board
in FY1981. We also expect to support the Government's educational reforms
through a third education project as soon as the Government tbtkes a decision
on the content and the timing of the project. A Phase II rural development
program is under preparation by the Government and we expect Mauritius to
request Bank assistance in support of the scheme. Preparation of an urban
development project is underway for which Bank assistance is likely to be
sought.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL, TOURISM AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
19.       The development objectives defined by the Government in the current
Five-Year Plan (FY75-80) call for the creation of 47,000 new jobs in industry
with a view to achieving full employment by 1980 while diversifying Mauritius'
economic base away from sugar. Through the financing of industrial units, DBM
has attempted to assist in the attainment of the above objectives and will
continue to do so in the future. Efforts to generate new employment oppor-
tunities have been generally successful but due to the type of export indus-
tries financed, i.e., textiles and garments, women rather than men were being
employed and therefore the problem of male unemployment was being iackled only
partially. However, DBM planned investments in small scale enterprises
are ext,tr   l o alleviate the problem of male unemployment.
20.       Financing of import-substitution and export-oriented projects is
expected to 2ontribute to improving the country's foreign reserve position.
Estimated annual foreign exchange savings/earnings of medium- and large-seale
projects financed by DBM amounted tc Rs 87.4 millicn (TUS$1'#.2 m4llicn) ½
FY'9177 and projects approved iin 'Y1977 ndU  19 u creaLed 3,524 jobs aL an
average cost per job of Rs 75,000 (US$12,000). Agricultural operations have
traditionally been directed towards small farmers but recently DBM started
financing the mechanization/modernization needs of the large sugar companies
which are experiencing serious labor shortages.
Industry
21.       Mauritius' economy is still dominated by sugar processing, which
accounts for about 45 percent of total domestic value added. Value added by
non-sugar manufacturing in 1976 amounted to 10 percent of GDP, 18 percent of
exports and large establishments provided employment to 29,000 persons or 16



-7-
percent of total employment. The Government's basic development objective
remains the achievement of full employment by 1980 through job creation in
industry and services. Until recently, most of the non-sugar manufacturing
output came from industries catering to the domestic market, primarily food
and beverage, construction materials and printing. Because of the suLall size
of the domestic market, import-substitution has limited potential and such
possibilities have been substantially tapped. The major scope for indus-
trialization now lies in the transformation of imported raw materials and
intermediate products for export markets. The dexterity and good quality of
the Mauritian labor force and its low cost compared with competing countries
is a considerable asset, particularly for industries where labor cost has a
large share in value added, such as manufacture of transistors, textiles,
clothing, footwear and toys.
22.       Until 1970, the Government's main means of stimulating industrial
development consisted of granting Development Certificates which offered
certain advantages to entrepreneurs in import-substitution industries con-
sidered important to the island's economy. With opportunities for import
substitution more or less exhausted by 1970, a worldwide study of industry
led to the idea of offering an attractive package of incentives to overseas
manufacturing firms. Under the Export Processing Zone Act approved in
December 1970, export-oriented labor intensive projects were offered incen-
tives including preferential rates for power, tax holidays on dividends and
retained earnings, exemption from import duties on raw material imports and
the right to repatriate profits and capital. In 1972, Mauritius became an
associate member in the European Community which gave Mauritius-based industry
easier access to that major market area. This preferential treatment was
expanded under the 1975 Lome Convention. Australia has also conceded pre-
ferential tariff rates to certain Mauritian products and, consequently,
exports to that country have been growing. These factors have attracted a
number of foreign entrepreneurs in textiles and garments, electronic compo-
nents, footwear and toys, primarily from India, Pakistan and Hong-Kong, with
which Mauritius has cultural ties.
23.       The Government has also set up industrial estates with all the
necessary infrastructure, including factory buildings. Investors are thus
saved some of the initial capital, time and effort needed to secure authoriza-
tion from a variety of authorities for land and utilities. Two major schemes
near Port Louis, at Plaine Lauzun and Coromandel, have been completed. The
Plaine Lauzun Estate is fully occupied, but at Coromandel only about 53 per-
cent of the available space was occupied at the end of 1978. Full occupancy
is now expected by 1981. Plans to develop smaller estates adapted to artisans
in the rural areas are under consideration. DBM is currently preparing a
Project Completion Report on the Coromandel Estate.
24.       Since the introduction of measures to encourage industrial produc-
tion for export, the performance of the manufacturing sector in the 1970s
has been good, particularly between 1971 and 1975 when growth in valuLe added
at constant prices averaged 17 percent per annum, employment grew at 17
percent per annum and export value at over 100 percent per annum. By 1977,
large scale enterprises, defined as those employing 10 or more workers,



- 8 -
accounted for 80 percent of gross value added, 17 percent of total employment
and contributed 22 percent of total exports. The artisan and small scale
enterprises, defined as those employing less than 10 workers, are estimated
to number 4,000 with a workforce of about 20,000. Although accurate data on
this sector is not available, it is estimated that it contributes about 20
percent of the non-sugar output.
25.       Recently, there has been an economic slowdown which had a negative
effect on industrial growth in Mauritius. The slowdown has its origins in a
number of factors. From the domestic side, the sugar industry, whose profits
largely fuel domestic investment, was severely affected by cyclone "Gervaise"
in February 1975, droughts in successive years, delays in the implementation
of the irrigation projects and a dramatic decline in the world sugar price.
Industrial activity was also directly affected by cyclone "Gervaise", which
caused damage to factory buildings and equipment and disrupted utilities.
This was followed by a marked increase in wages, labor unrest, absenteeism
and a consequential decline in productivity. This unfavorable labor climate
coupled with weak export markets caused by the international recession has
slowed down industrial investments and led to a few factory closings. Some
investors may also have adopted a wait-and-see attitude pending a clarification
of the political situation created by mounting economic and social problems.
The Government has reacted to these developments by (i) attempting to reor-
ganize and support the artisan and small-scale sector where further growth
potential exists (ii) stepping up its promotional efforts to attract more
foreign investments and (iii) trying to improve labor relations through the
formation of a tripartite committee to review labor/management disputes.
26.       In the short term, the performance of the large scale manufacturing
sector is unlikely to significantly improve. In the medium and long run, the
basic factors which have explained the rapid growth in the industrial sector
in the early 1970's will continue to sustain future growth as larger firms
which have applied for Export Processing Zone certificates start operations,
the industrial promotion program begins to produce results and the economic
climate abroad improves. In addition, the artisan/small scale sector, given
its low capital/labor ratio, has significant potential to contribute in the
near term to employment creation; in particular the more traditional SSEs may
contribute to import substitution for basic goods catering to the lower income
urban and rural markets. However, some of the major advantages offered by
Mauritius to investors are now being offered by some other countries, partic-
ularly those that have signed trade agreements with the European Community
giving them the same preferential treatment as Mauritius. Nevertheless,
Mauritius continues to have certain advantages which make it attractive to
local and foreign investors, including a well-functioning administration,
relatively low labor costs and a cosmopolitan character.
27.       Sugar Processing.  Out of some 86,500 hectares under sugar cane cul-
tivation, about 56 percent are cultivated by 21 sugar estates having processing
and refining facilities. Some 31,000 small independent growers cultivate the
remainder. Of the 21 estates, 20 are privately-owned while one has been
acquired by the Government. The current Five-Year Plan (1975-1980) contem-
plates an expansion of sugar production from 680,000 tons, the average



- 9 -
achieved during the previous plan period, to 800,000 tor.s by 1980. This
proposed increase will have to come primarily through improvements in cane
yields and technical factors such as improved varieties, pest control and
irrigation. Modernization of the sugar mills will also be required. As a
result of the Government's success in creating new job opportunities and
thereby reducing unemployment, the estates are encountering increasing diffi-
culties in securing labor, particularly during the harvesting season, and the
industry has started limited mechanization of sugar cutting and loading to
overcome labor shortages. Under the last IBRD loan 1481-MAS the Bank agreed
to finance up to US$2.5 million for sugar sector operations subject to a study
of the rationale for mechanization of the sector and assurance that metchaniza-
tion would not adversely affect the labor employment situation in the country.
The study has concluded that mechanization of the sugar operations would not
adversely affect the employment situation in Mauritius and DBM has started
committing funds for sugar operations following Government's acceptance of
the study's recommendations. Under this loan, DBM will continue to finance
sugar estate operations but has agreed to keep under review the level of its
investments in sugar through periodic consultation with the Bank (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06).
Tourism
28.        Mauritius has distinct attractions for tourism.  It has unspoiled
white sand beaches, coral reefs, lagoons and subtropical temperatures with
long daily periods of sunshine. Since 1969, tourism in Mauritius has developed
rapidly and visitor arrivals increased by an average of 30 percent a year,
reaching 108,000 in 1978 with foreign exchange receipts totalling Rs 235
million (US$38.3 million). At the end of 1977 there were 37 hotels on the
island offering a total of 1,880 rooms and 3,700 beds. Data on occupancy
rates are uncertain but they are estimated to have been below 50 percent on
average in 1977 and as a result most hotels were making losses in that year.
Last year, owing to poor overall economic conditions in the country and
increased need for foreign exchange, the Government stepped up promotional
campaigns in Europe for Mauritian tourism. As a result, a 10 percent increase
in tourist arrivals over 1977 and a higher hotel occupancy rate were regis-
tered, thus permitting a number of hotels to become profitable. The largest
increase in arrivals has been in visitors from South Africa, the Indian Ocean
area, Europe and Australia, due in part to the introduction of special promo-
tional air fares.
29.       The Government recognizes tourism as a priority sector.  Detailed
pricing and marketing policies are being developed to rationalize the opera-
tions of the sector. Though new hotels will not be needed until 1981-82, the
Government expects, on the basis of current and forecast promotional etfforts,
that 9,000 beds should be available by 1990, which corresponds to an increase
of 140 percent over 1977.



- 10 -
Finance
30.       Despite its relatively small size, Mauritius has a wide range of
financial intermediaries. The banking system consists of the Bank of Mauritius
(Central Bank), the Mauritius Commercial Bank and eight other commercial banks
(branches of overseas banks), the Cooperative Central Bank, the Post Office
Savings Bank and the Development Bank of Mauritius. There are also a number
of insurance companies, a housing corporation which offers mortgage finance
and raises funds from both the public and private sectors, investment trusts,
pension funds and the Sugar Insurance Fund, which charges premia on all sugar
production and pays benefits in years of poor harvests. The main Mauritian
sources of funds for term financing of the industrial sector are the Develop-
ment Bank of Mauritius, the Finance Corporation of the Mauritius Commercial
Bank, the Sugar Pension Fund, insurance companies and direct financing by the
private sugar companies.
31.       Because the sugar sector dominates the Mauritian economy, the
liquidity of the banking system has been largely dependent on the success
or failure of the sugar crop. When the revenues from the sugar crop are good,
the banks are liquid and able to meet the working capital/short-term seasonal
financing needs of the sugar crop and the demand from the industrial sector.
The profitability of the sugar sector has also enabled the sugar companies to
finance their own needs and have resources available for investments in the
industrial sector. However, due to falling sugar prices and increased operat-
ing cost, the profitability of the sugar sector has declined during the last
two years. This is expected to result in the Mauritian private sector having
reduced resources for investment in both the sugar and industrial sectors and
a shortage of liquidity in the commercial banking system at times of seasonal
peak demand for sugar crop financing.
32.       Commercial bank credit in Mauritius grew at a pace of 17 percent
in 1975, 28 percent in 1976 and 43 percent in 1977 which prompted the Central
Bank to tighten restrictions on credit expansion in 1978 through credit
ceilings, increased reserve ratios and controls on trade credit. Credit
expansion was subsequently brought down to 6 percent without disrupting
the export earning sectors. The reduction in the country's foreign exchange
reserves by the end of 1978 led in 1979 to the continuation of the tight
monetary and credit policies initiated in 1978. In 1978 the liquidity levels
of the commercial banks exceeded the Government minimum by 5 percent, averag-
ing about 30 percent. This reflected the depressed economic climate and the
ensuing reduced scope for credit growth. Despite the increase in the reserve
ratio, the commercial banking sector should  have adequate liquidity to meet
demand in the near term.
33.       Interest Rate Structure.  In March 1977, the Central Bank, which
sets ceiling rates for deposits and advances for all banks, announced an
overall increase in the Mauritian interest rate structure. This was the first
major change in interest rates since 1974. In September 1979 the commercial
bank prime rate was raised to 10.25 percent. The commercial bank deposit
rates have been increased from 6-3/4 percent to 7-3/4 percent for 3-month
deposits and from 7-1/2 percent to 8-1/2 percent for one-year deposits in



- 11 -
order to attract deposits. In recent years, the industrial sector has been
provided with adequate short term local currency resources to cover working
capital needs.
34.       Before the change in the interest rate structure, DBM obtained
its short-term funds from the interbank market. The interbank market is no
longer operative given the present structure of interest rates and this has
affected the day-to-day cash flow operations of DBM. However, short-term
liquidity problems for DBM have eased since the Central Bank has provided DBM
with short-term credit facilities and DBM's liquidity situation is now satis-
factory.
35.       DBM will relend its term foreign exchange resources from IBRD at an
interest rate of 12 percent, except for loans of up to Rs25,000 (US$4,000) to
artisans and small-scale enterprises which will be made at a 9 percent interest
rate. (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)). DBM also currently charges a
1 percent commitment fee. DBM relends its local currency resources to medium
and large-scale borrowers at the same rates, but with inflation rates in
Mauritius expected to average 12-13 percent in 1979-81, the local currency
rates would be at best marginally positive in real terms. The low rate for
artisan and small-scale borrowers is clearly concessionary and conforms to the
Government's policy of encouraging the development of new artisan/small scale
enterprises to promote employment. There has been a considerable evolution
in the Government's policy on interest rates to the artisan and small scale
enterprise sector. The rates were first increased from 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent, and in anticipation of the negotiation of this loan, DBM was allowed
to increase the rate to 9 percent. However, the Government and DBM have
agreed to consult with the Bank on the introduction of positive rates of
interest to small scale enterprises benefitting from concessional interest
rates (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.08). DBM maintains a continuous review
of its interest rates and will continue to initiate adjustment to its onlending
rates, as appropriate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project would assist DBM, as the major institutional
source of term finance in Mauritius, in financing the foreign exchange com-
ponent of manufacturing, agro-industry, tourism, and artisan and smtall-scale
enterprise projects. A report entitled "Mauritius - Staff Appraisal Report
of A Fifth IBRD Loan-Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM)" (No. 2544-MAS, dated



- 12 -
November 27, 1979) is being circulated separately. 1/ The proposed project
was appraised in January 1979 and negotiated in Washington from October 22-25,
1979 with a delegation consisting of Mr. Gupta, Managing Director of DBM, and
Mr. Manna, Assistant Financial Secretary.
History and Objectives of DBM
37.       DBM was established in 1964 as a statutory corporation to provide
equity and term financing as well as management and technical assistance for
productive investments in industrial, agricultural and tourism development
projects. The Government holds 75.0 percent of its share capital; the Bank
of Mauritius, 20.0 percent; and the State Insurance Corporation of Mauritius,
5.0 percent.
Management, Organization and Staffing
38.       DBM's Board of Directors consists of twelve members, chosen from the
Government, the private banking sector, industry and the university and DBM.
DBM's management and staff are capable and competent. A Bank staff member
on secondment was Managing Director until May 1978 when an expatriate from
the Industrial Development Bank of India took over. Under their leadership
1/   Subsequent to the analysis presented in this report and after nego-
tiations on this project, the Mauritian Rupee was devalued by twenty-three
percent (23%) against the SDR; the current rate of exchange is
Rs 7.7698 = US$1.00. Local currency resource requirements may increase
due to the increased price of indirectly imported goods. However, this
should pose no problem for DBM as the Government in the past has con-
sistently provided DBM with requisite local currency funds and moreover
has agreed, in the context of the proposed Fifth loan, to provide DBM
with adequate local currency funds to carry out its forecast operations.
While it would cause DBM's debt/equity ratio (as defined in the Loan
Agreement) to rise from the 2.7:1 in FY1980 and 2.5:1 in FY1984, pro-
jected in the appraisal to 3.3:1 in FY1980 and 3.0:1 in FY1984, the
debt/equity position would still remain well below the contractual limit
of 4:1. The devaluation could affect the quality of DBM's portfolio.
Ceteris paribus it would be expected that the performance of export
oriented enterprises would improve, with the resultant increased com-
petitiveness of Mauritian products, as would that of import substitution
firms, with increased rupee cost of competing imported goods. At the
same time, any firms relying substantially upon imported inputs may
experience financial problems, and their working capital requirements
would need to be carefully monitored. As far as prospects for future
operations, increased competitiveness should provide an inducement for
new investment in export enterprises.
Note: The devaluation would not affect DBM's foreign exchange resource
requirements, as the rupee equivalent of its foreign exchange
resources would increase in line with the rupee equivalent
of the foreign exchange component of its forecast operations.



- 13 -
the impact of DBM in the financing of industrial and tourism investment in
Mauritius has been greatly enhanced, particularly by strengthening i:he growth
of DBM's operations and its supervision activities. As of December 1978, DBM
had 27 professionals out of a total staff of 77 persons. The staff is adequate
in quality and number. For the Industrial Estate Division, DBM has retained
the services of an ODM-sponsored Development Advisor since 1977. A vigorous
training policy has been pursued and has resulted in DBM having a qualified
and competent staff and management team. During 1976, a Mauritian was pro-
moted to the position of Assistant Managing Director.
DBM Procedures
39.       DBM has four operational lending divisions for Industry, Industrial
Estates, Small Enterprises, and Agriculture, plus an Administrative Division,
which includes the legal and accounting functions. Project appraisal is
performed by the investment officer or field officer in the case of small-
scale enterprises. All projects are then reviewed by the Assistant Managing
Director and subsequently by the Managing Director, after which loans exceed-
ing Rs 10,000 (about US$1,630) are submitted to the Board for approval. The
quality of appraisal work has been generally good. DBM has an influence on
the design of projects it finances through early involvement in project
preparation. However, project supervision in the past has concentrated too
heavily on projects with payments in arrears and not enough on project per-
formance. Until late 1978, appraisal and supervision responsibilities were
combined within the lending division, and investment officers tended to put
more emphasis on appraisal to the detriment of implementation and follow-up.
40.       To remedy the above shortcomings, DBM has undertaken to streamline
and standardize its supervision functions. A reconstruction/follow-up depart-
ment is being established within the Industrial Division and in addition
to two investment officers already in place, DBM intends to hire an expert to
assist in project supervision, recovery and procurement. Under the new system,
periodic supervision visits and reports are planned. For major problem pro-
jects, DBM would establish with the commercial banks a Management Committee
to assist company management in restructuring the affected enterprises.
Legislation is being considered to empower the Committee, as warranted, to
take over and manage the enterprises concerned.
41.       Concerning procurement, DBM traditionally encourages its medium
and large scale borrowers to seek competitive quotations for equipment and
construction contracts. However, a recent change in policy requires the
investment officers to verify, as appropriate, quotations and the adequacy
of performance guarantees from suppliers for loans above Rs 1.0 million (about
US$163,000). For small scale loans procurement is generally done locally
under DBM's control to prevent overcharging of entrepreneurs by local dealers
and suppliers of equipment. DBM disburses against evidence of completion of
work for construction contracts and through letters of credit for import
financing. For small-scale loans the disbursement procedures are simplified
and are controlled by the field officers. These disbursement procedures are
satisfactory. Internal accounting procedures are efficient and the Accounting
Division works closely with DBM's auditors, whose audit reports are well
prepared.



- 14 -
Operations
42.       The evolution of DBM's operations is reflected in the major expan-
sion in approvals between FY1972 and FY1977, due to the boom in industrial
investment in Mauritius. Disbursements during that period also rose due in
part to improvements in DBM's internal loan processing and disbursement
procedures. Since then, performance has fluctuated. Loan approvals, after
increasing by 42 percent in FY1977 to Rs 85 million, declined by 6 percent
in FY1978 and a further 40 percent in FY1979. These declines reflect the
depressed climate for investments, especially from abroad. Commitments and
disbursements followed a similar pattern.
43.       Artisans/Small-Scale Enterprises.  Since 1971 DBM has operated a
successful scheme for making loans for artisans and small scale industrial
development. The vast majority of DBM's clients in this sector are owner/
manager units assisted by a few family members or employees. Government funds
provided for the program have been channelled through DBM at the onlending
rates of 9 percent for loans up to Rs 25,000 (US$4,000) and 12 percent for
loans above Rs 25,000 (see paragraph 35). Working capital is made available
to the artisans by the Government-owned State Commercial Bank with which DBM
has a very close working relationship. The Government covers the operating
costs incurred by DBM on such lending and also guarantees all loans to
artisans. In FY1978 and FY1979, DBM approved 274 and 189 loans respectively
bringing total investments to Rs 15.6 million for 2,072 loans since the start
of the scheme. The FY1978 and 1979 approvals represent a decline compared to
past years due to market saturation of some subsectors in the Port Louis area,
the general economic conditions and limited promotional efforts. However,
this situation is expected to improve after a proposed UNDP-financed program
of technical assistance to artisans and small scale entrepreneurs gets under-
way. The average loan size has increased from Rs 7,000 in FY1977 to Rs 10,000
in FY1978 but declined to Rs 9,000 in FY1979 and many of the loan applicants
are establishments returning for a second loan. The major beneficiary sectors
include furniture, garments, light mechanical work, leather work and mixed
farming. The average cost per job in this informal sector is about Rs 6,000
compared to Rs 15,000 in the small scale enterprises and Rs 75,000 for the
large scale firms. Loan repayment by artisans and small-scale entrepreneurs
is good and to date no loan has been written off.
44.       Industrial Estates.  Since the completion in early 1978 of a second
industrial estate at Coromandel financed with credit no. 411-MAS of 1973,
the level of activity in the estates has been low. By the end of 1978, only
53 percent of the 632,624 square feet of Coromandel's building area and 46
percent of the 25 acres of land in the estate had been leased. The first
industrial estate at Plaine Lauzun with its six buildings is completely
occupied by some 35 companies. At Coromandel thirty enterprises have leased
buildings, overwhelmingly on the ground floor and three others have leased
plots of land. These include nine textile industries, five mechanical
industries and non-productive warehouses for various industrial and service
activities which account for 40 percent of the total leases. It is estimated
that so far over 1,500 jobs have been created by companies operating in the
Coromandel estate.



- 15 -
45.       The current occupancy rate at Coromandel is below expectatiolns.  Two
main factors have hampered the development of the estate: one is the limited
amount of ground floor space coupled with a general reluctance on the part of
prospective lessees to accept upper floor accommodations because of the nature
of their activities. The other factor relates to the difficulty in attracting
qualified labor for some industries and to the lack of basic amenities such as
transport to the estate, nearby housing, banks, shops and restaurants. The
planned development of the adjacent La Tour housing estate would alleviate this
situation in the 1980s and DBM expects full occupancy to take place by 1981.
46.       Agriculture and Transport.  Traditionally DBM's agricultural loans
have been for small sugar and tea planters, mixed farming and livestock
projects. In the last few years, the amounts approved for such loans ranged
between Rs 1.0 million and Rs 3.0 million per year, accounting for about 4
percent of total non-industrial loan approvals. Average loan size was about
Rs 28,000. In 1978 DBM made two large sugar loans of about Rs 5.0 million
each and total amounts approved for agriculture accounted for 14 percent of
total approvals. Approvals in FY1979 amounted to Rs 3.4 million or 7 percent
of total loan approvals. DBM assistance to the transport sector started to
expand during FY1977 when DBM contracted a Rs 38.5 million line of credit from
the Industrial Development Bank of India to refinance transport project loans
made by the State Commercial Bank. As of June 30, 1979, 11 loans totalling Rs
15.6 million have been approved under this program. However, Rs 22.9 million
out of the line of credit still remain uncommitted.
47.       As of June 30, 1979 DBM's total outstanding loan portfolio amounted
to Rs 218.9 million (US$36 million) of which 90 percent was in medium/large
scale industry, 7 percent in agriculture and the remaining 3 percent in small
scale industry. The distribution of the industrial loan portfolio indicates
a continuing heavy concentration on textile exports (20 percent of approvals
in FY1978) followed by hotels (7 percent), food processing, fishing and fish
processing. The risk to DBM due to its exposure in textiles is mitigated by
the diversity of products produced in Mauritius (i.e., jute bags, yarn,
knit-wear, ready-made garments, etc.) and by the geographical dispersion
of the markets. Arrears over three months in DBM's medium- and large--scale
industry and tourism loan portfolio amounted to Rs 12.6 million or 6 percent.
A number of firms have recently been experiencing problems caused by
weak export markets, poor management and labor unrest but most of theim have
the potential to operate profitably. DBM is actively working to reso:Lve these
problems and recovery proposals have been worked out for five companies out of
the eleven companies affected.
48.       The agriculture and small-scale industry portfolio is limited
(Rs 16.3 million and Rs 7.2 million respectively as of June 30, 1979) but its
quality is good, reflecting the good repayment record of the small borrowers.
Moreover, the Government has guaranteed all loans to small planters and to
artisans. As of June 30, 1979, only 21 percent of the small scale industry
portfolio was affected by arrears over three months which amounted to Rs
418,000 or 5.8 percent of the portfolio.



- 16 -
49.       Equity Investments.  As of June 30, 1979, DBM had equity investments
totalling Rs 16.0 million. The portfolio comprises a diverse sub-sectoral mix
of 18 mostly privately-owned companies, including hotel, textile, banking,
cement, bagasse board, fertilizer, distillery, and industrial farming projects.
DBM's participation averages 17 percent of their capital and varies from 1 to
42 percent. In FY1979 the overall return on equity portfolio was 10.1 percent.
Of the 18 enterprises in which DBM has a shareholding interest, 11 are profit-
able with six distributing dividends, and 7 were operating at a loss. Invest-
ments in unprofitable companies amount to Rs 6.6 million. DBM is adequately
covered against possible losses on its equity portfolio. David Whitehead, a
textile mill of the Lonhro Group, has been closed down since December 1977 and
DBM expects to write off its Rs 1.3 million investment after the sale of assets.
Financial Condition
50.       DBM's financial structure is satisfactory.  The rapid expansion
of its operations has been financed through borrowings from abroad and the
Government and through net cash generation. The Government has also continued
to make equity contributions which in FY1978 amounted to Rs 3.9 million. If
part of the Government subordinated loans are treated as equity, long-term
debt over equity has gone up from 1.7:1 in FY1976 to 3.3:1 in FY1979 which is
still below the covenanted limit of 4:1 specified in the Agreeement for the
fourth loan. The ratio of term debt/equity net of sinking fund has increased
from 3.2:1 in FY1976 to a still acceptable 4.4:1 in FY1979 if all Government
subordinated loans are considered as debt. Provisions against losses are
adequate at 3.7 percent of the net loan and equity investments. Despite the
collapse of the interbank money market, DBM's liquidity position is now
satisfactory. The Government has agreed to provide DBM with adequate funds in
local currency to continue its normal operations (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.03).
51.       DBM's net profit increased dramatically in fiscal years 1976 and
1977 owing to the rapid expansion in its loan portfolio and an increase in
its interest rate spread. DBM's administrative expenses have been low and
represented 0.7 percent of average total assets in FY1979. DBM's profit
before provisions in FY1979 increased by 30 percent over FY1978 to Rs 7.9
million, but net profit further declined from 9.9 percent of average total
assets to 6.6 percent, as a result of a massive increase in provisions.
Forecast Operations and Resource Requirements
52.       In view of the current depressed economic outlook in Mauritius, DBM
is forecasting a reduced volume of lending in real terms as compared to the
rapid expansion in the period before 1978. The project pipeline at mid 1979
consisted of 11 industrial and tourism projects requiring about Rs 21 million
from DBM. This pipeline however does not include the possible financing by
DBM of projects to be submitted through commercial banks, under a scheme to
be negotiated between DBM and the commercial banks (paragraph 58). Over half
of the projects are in agro-industry and four projects are in cabinet making,
textile, sand quarry and pipe and machine tools. With the exception of two
sugar projects, requiring Rs 7.2 million, industrial projects included in the
pipeline are rather small, requiring a total financing from DBM of less than
Rs 3 million (US$500,000).



- 17 -
53.       DBM's forecast of operations reflects the above weak pipeline.
Medium and large operations in industry and tourism will increase from Rs 20
million in FY1979 to Rs 27 million in FY1980 and increase slowly thereafter to
Rs 50 million in FY1984. A total of Rs 32 million is expected to be approved
for sugar mechanization projects between FY1980 and FY1982 while transport
loan approvals of Rs 19 million are forecast during the FY1980-82 period.
Approvals for small-scale enterprise projects are projected to increase from a
low of Rs 1.7 million in FY1979 to Rs 3 million by FY1981 and would remain at
that level thereafter. Agricultural loans would total Rs 2 to 3 million per
year and approvals for industrial estate projects are expected to increase
from Rs 1.2 million in FY1979 to Rs 9 million in FY1984. Equity investments
would remain at Rs 2-3 million per year through FY1984. Overall, DBM's
approvals would increase from Rs 49 million in FY1979 to Rs 75 million in
FY1984 equivalent in current terms to an annual rate of increase of about 5
percent in FY1981 and 11 percent thereafter. If a satisfactory agreement
with the commercial banks can be reached, an additional amount of Rs 32 mil-
lion will be sought from DBM between FY1979-81 to cover the foreign exchange
financing needs of projects presented through commercial banks.
54.       On the basis of the above sectoral needs, DBM's overall resource
requirements are estimated at about Rs 138 million (US$22.5 million) over
the FY1980-82 period, excluding the transport loans to be financed with
the Industrial Development Bank of India line of credit and the possible
financing of commercial bank projects. DBM's foreign exchange resource gap
excluding transport sector financing and commercial bank projects is esti-
mated at about Rs 50 million (US$8.1 million). Financing of the gap Ls
expected to be provided mainly through foreign borrowings from IBRD and
DBM's other sources. A Bank loan of US$3.0 million requested by DBM is
therefore recommended for medium/large scale industrial, agro-industrial
and tourism projects. A further US$1.0 million is proposed for artisan
and small-scale enterprise projects which provide significant scope for
employment creation. A recently agreed technical assistance program for
this sector will be financed by UNDP. It will allow more comprehensive
technical assistance while IBRD financing will assist in expanding the
financing program. In addition a component of US$2.0 million is recolm-
mended to finance projects through the commercial banks (see paragrap'h
58 below).
55.       To cover the remaining US$4.1 million gap, DBM has approached its
other sources of foreign exchange finance which in the past included the
European Investment Bank, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(France) the African Development Bank and Kredietanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
(Germany). The local currency resource gap estimated at Rs 32 million
(US$5.2 million) will be financed by DBM's cash generation, local borrowings
and Government funds.



- 18 -
Projected Financial Performance
56.       DBM's financial position is expected to remain sound despite the
current economic environment. DBM's assets are expected to increase from
Rs 376 million in FY1980 to Rs 486 million in FY1984. The bank's term debt/
equity ratio is expected to decrease moderately from 2.5 in FY1980 to 2.4 in
FY1984.  DBM's liquidity position is expected to remain acceptable throughout
the five-year period. Profitability is expected to remain adequate and a
net profit of about 11-12 percent of average net worth during the projection
period should allow DBM to build up its reserves to 58 percent of total equity
at end FY1984, compared to 39 percent at end FY1980.
Terms of Bank Loan
57.       The proposed IBRD loan of US$6.0 million would be made to DBM with
the guarantee of Mauritius at an interest rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
The proceeds of the loan would be relent by DBM at an interest rate of at
least 12 percent per annum except for loans to artisans/small-scale enter-
prises in amounts up to Rs 25,000 (US$4,000) which DBM would relend at 9
percent (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)). DBM also charges a 1 percent
commitment fee. For loans to medium and large scale enterprises DBM will pass
on the risk between the rupee and the dollar to the sub-borrowers while the
Government will carry the risk between the dollar and the disbursement cur-
rencies (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02 and draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.07(b)). For the small loans to artisans and small scale entre-
preneurs, the Government will carry the exchange risk at no fee in the interest
of seeking to develop and expand employment creation in these sectors (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). The amortization schedule for the medium
and large scale component of the loan will substantially conform with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of the subloans with a maximum maturity
of 15 years, including appropriate grace periods (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 2.08 (b)). A fixed amortization schedule for the artisan and small
scale part of the loan was agreed upon at negotiations and generally conforms
to the forecast cumulative amortization schedules of the subloans. The free
limit will be US$600,000 with an aggregate free limit of US$3.0 million (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). The first five artisan and small scale
subprojects will not be presented to IBRD under the free limit procedure
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.03). The debt/equity ratio should not exceed
4:1 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
Financing Foreign Exchange Needs of Mauritian Commercial Banks' Industrial
Projects
58.       To reach borrowers whom DBM could not otherwise reach and maximize
investment opportunities, DBM is considering a scheme to permit three Mauritian-
owned commercial banks (the Mauritius Commercial Bank, the State Commercial
Bank and the Indian Ocean International Bank, Ltd.) to obtain US$2.0 million
in IBRD funds to cover the foreign exchange needs of their industrial projects.
These projects would be appraised in conformity with IBRD requirements and
submitted to DBM who would review them for submission to IBRD for approval and
disbursement. The modalities for this scheme are now being worked out by DBM



- 19 -
and the commercial banks and should be completed by June 30, 1980. [Lf by
the above date no agreement satisfactory to all parties, including I]BRD, is
reached on the modalities for financing subprojects, DBM will use the US$2
million for its regular financing operations (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(c)(ii)).  In such a case, Bank assistance would increase to 74 percent of
DBM's foreign exchange gap and 40 percent of its total foreign exchange needs.
Prolect Implementation
59.       DBM will be required to submit quarterly reports as in the past
including financial statements, resource position, statement of arrears and
notes on subprojects encountering serious operational difficulties. It will
also be asked to continue to submit audited annual accounts prepared by
qualified accountants (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02) together with its
annual report.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.       Procurement under DBM loans will be executed through normaLl channels,
and DBM will require its clients to seek alternative quotations for equipment
and construction contracts. The proposed loan would be disbursed against the
foreign exchange requirements of DBM's investments in industry, agro-industry
and tourism.  The foreign exchange component of each investment is estimated
at 100 percent of the CIF cost of direct imports, 75 percent of the invoiced
price of goods previously imported through normal trade channels, 60 percent
of the invoiced price of goods produced in Mauritius to a substantial extent
from imported inputs, and 60 percent of the construction costs of industrial
buildings and hotels (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(a)). For the artisan
and small-scale enterprises, DBM will accumulate invoices and present a global
request to IBRD for reimbursement on a monthly or quarterly basis. Actual
invoices would be held by DBM and made available for Bank inspection during
supervision missions.
Benefits and Risks
61.       Industrial growth remains one of the most important elements of the
Mauritian economy. The Government's basic strategy for economic and indus-
trial development is appropriate to the stage of the country's growth. DBM
has played and will continue to play an important role in the development
of the industrial sector through direct financing of projects, development
of industrial estates and assistance to the artisanal sector. It is a well-
managed, creditworthy institution, which deserves further institutional and
financial assistance from the Bank Group. DBM has made significant progress
in the training of staff, development of its appraisal and supervision cap-
abilities, and increasing the efficiency of its operating procedures. How-
ever, the Bank can still greatly aid in further developing DBM, particularly
in the latter's supervision activities and the development of small scale
operations. As DBM is a financially sound and generally capable institution,
risks associated with this project relate to the pace of commitment of funds.
Indeed, the depressed investment climate, the labor problems and fuLrther
salary increases coupled with a possible lack of response from promotion
efforts to attract European investors could lead to a further slowdown in
investment demand and consequently slow commitment of the loan.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and DBM, the draft
Gue-antee Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Project features of special interest are referred to in Section III
of Annex III to this Report.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 6, 1979



-21-                                     Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MAURITtUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAUttTIUS                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUStED AYERACIS
LAND ARMA (THOUSAND SO  EN.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTINATE) HE
TOTAL              2:0.0                                                  -AM         SAME    'E7XT HIGHES
AG.zcuLTuRz        1.1                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        LNCOM2
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ge CROUP /d    GROUP '
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  220.0       310.0      830.0           306.1      1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMP~TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL IEOLIVALZNT)     119.0       189.0     405.0             80.6      730.7       1646.7
POPUt,ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. XID-YEAR (UMILLIONS)      0.66        0.83      0.91
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.6         44.4      43.7,            17.1       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          ..
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            ..
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      ..
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KIM.                     350.0        400.0     450.0             18.4       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. YCN. ACRICULTURAL LAND    681.0       746.0     818.0             50.8      140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.1        41.9      36.0             44.1       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.9        54.5      60.0             52.9       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         3.6       4.0              2.8        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.2         2.3        1.3             2.7        2.4          1.7
UBAN                                3.4         4.9        1.0             5.7        4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      38.0        30.0      25.0             46.3       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0         7.0        7.0            17.2        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         1.9        1.5             3.1        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         9.8       12.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         25.0      47.7               ..       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          109.4        95.0     114.0             94.3      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES tPERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                  103.0        106.0     108.0             89.5      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           47.0        50.0      55.8             55.8       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        19.0      21.8             17.9       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) ffORTALITY RATE     11.0         5.7       4.1             22.3        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    60.3         64.0      67.0             47.0       60.2        65.6
INFANT MDRTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           69.5         59.0      40.4               ..       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *'        61.0      60.0             20.3       60.8        69.4
URBAN                                .,       100.0     100.0             53.9       75.7        85.1
RURAL                                *-        29.0      22.0             10.1       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        77.0      82.0             22.5       46.0        70.1
URBAN                                .,        51.0      63.0             62.5       46.0        88.3
RURAL                                *'        99.0     100.0             13.9       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5470.0/f    4090.0    2550.0           17424.7     2262.4      1343.2
POPULA-ION PER NURSING PERSON      1720.07f     800.0     620.0           2506.6     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPETAL BED
TOTAL                            230.0/f      260.0     280.0            502.3      453.4       197.6
URBAN                                ..       160.0     160.0            201.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                                         470.0     700.0           1403.6     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..        23.1      21.5             23.4'      22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9          5.3/j      ..              4.9        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              4.9           ..        ..             4.9         5.2         4.4
RURAL                              4.8           ..        ..             5.5         5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.9/f         ..        ..               ..        1.9         1.1
URBAN                               1.S7         ..        ..               ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                              1.97          ..        ..               ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS -O ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47.0/f       70.1        ..               ..       50.0        66.0
UR8AN                             81.97          ..        ..               ..       71.?        85.1
RURAL                             29.077         ..        ..               ,,       17.3



Annex 1
-22-                                          Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MAURrIZUS - SOCIA. INDICATORS DATA SHEYT
btALRIT7US                 RERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyRAGES
- IOST RIECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
FRLIMARY:    TOTAL                  98.0       110.0      103.0             59.0      102.5        101.7
MALE                 103.0        112.0     106.0             64.2       108.6        110.0
FEMALE                93.0        107.0     101.0             44.2        97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  24.0        37.0       45.0              9.0       33.5         51.2
MALE                  32.0         44.0      50.0             12.0        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                13.0         29.0      34.0              4.4        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   2.0            1.0       2.0              7.0        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0        32.0       24.0             42.2       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          22.0         25.0       31.0             22.9       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         60.8/f         ..      80.0             20.8        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUrLATInN                         14.0        15.0       23.1              4.0       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         61.0        102.0      125.0             44.3      122.7        225.9
TV tECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        23.0       44.0              2.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   87.0        78.0       91.0              5.6       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 11.0           10.0      18.9              0.4         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
SOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        211.0       255.0      300.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    19.4        19.6       21.0             31.9       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               39.6        34.0       30.3             77.6       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 25.8         25.1       24.5L&            7.9       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.9        31.0       33.3             40.8       33.5         33.8
MALE                                  51.0        49.7      .52.5             53.9       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                12.3        12.2       14.0   .         25.6        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.5       1.2              1.2         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.0            ..       31.0               ..       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  51.0            ..       55.0              ..        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5            ..        4.5              ..         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.0            ..       14.0              ..        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      205.0            187.6      270.0
8DRAL                                 ..          ..     205.0             96.8       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     200.0            138.4       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     200.0              71.0      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      45.0             34.5        20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      45.0             48.7        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geoeecric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  /g  1972.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-23-                                                          Anmex 1
Page 3 of 5
WMO OIaUWAL IXfIC&M_fl
NoIts.   AlIIAo..go t,ce dot~ -r  irate- 'o.ore   eor",  ydgsd tht -.at gsthoritttie  sad reliable, it shoulA asue he hnted that they   W sot be I.tro-
tFR_.UX  -epmarb- b-oos  of tie Iok of at.ead_idOsd d.fibitione sd Osacept. a.ed by differst eoantries in .11ofl1ting the dante. The dit.  r,oates,
useful to d-cibr -rde-  of seegot.de, indiat. treada, 50d caraeteriaa . seled maJor diff--.a ees  hl mee    trif e..
Ibe~  srf  ,ayfaas  or  .ohindoalr me  opwnlia-soigl.  esmiro   5.a,emlsadig the .mtra, values of the indi.ato  sod th. most aa3.u.i
oonnts  t  eah goa.  g.euolo  of dat., grasp cvergee of sll Indl..tros for Capital SaIple  Oil Iaporar.r sad of indicators of hosces. to vtate asd lasret
Stre S -l leot, lac-  DOtrtettion  504 Poverty for other .-satry g ..p. are populetion-UIttd s*,mtrte  .-U .1thosat ear,lssxio  of the eetrer valuse. sd
the meet poPuated .-ostry.  Sim0. the roomeffe of cosatigse                the je        V"or   9.eu. (5    mlhillty o:fFd*ts sd is rAt unifore,. tetins miet be aeeercied
in re  bl.Averaeme  of sac ludjoato, to another.  Iseasea~atyasU   sanm0lsmo    estd    sAso.  aai   h   sse   fa
ladiontar at A Otim   a m     the vosoatry sd reference groups.
IAfD ARMA (thosand sq.k..)                                                                    A.... to  Paret'  Dieolt       peeto   aaaloa      oa.obssdna 
"Q7 otsl sofino  so-  -oprislog Iodreoe  Sod inand waters.                               mud-  o  pepe(ttl   rb..   a  rri  sre  by sert.  Ii1
0                 dialos~~~~~.ors  -  SPat rect eatieate of agori-Itas1 --m coned tsmgorari]s                   pee tmtges of thei, respective populntloas. Sooret  diepossi ea  iavlud.e
orpea"et1y for oropa, pautuses, meaket sad kibilee   gardea  or to                       the colletino  amd disposal, aith or aithont trea.et-t  of Inss. eoeto
lIe  f.l_w                                                                                   ad wato-wat-r by water-bar   my yt-  or the ..e of pit privtes sod eseilar
inatall.tioos.
WIPPE  CAIT  (U4)- GNP per ospit. cetimat.. at orsorst a-rht prices,,                   P.      i       Z     ka  - Pnpolatioa divided by otoehr of pesotIvig pbysieiene
osralmsted by   -  .voor.eio  method -  Woald Baab Antl.  (1976-78 bSMi.);                     difiedfi'a     addiol soheol at smvriylvl
1~~0, 1970, SOd 1978   ~                                   PwmIntioo ~er Nonime persaS -  poplatinh divided by noeber of preotiriag mclv
oS51  CfsLJ(pfi0N PER CAPITA - Aoo-as   -iWomtiaa of...ris   ergy                           so   el   edat    Oe prewoticel  ouess, s.d Ulst.t                                arat
9IrMsi s.d  -loott-   ptrole ,  atroos  g.e sad hyd-o., melm.  sd go-                        Paslatia.  erj Hoo4pitel hod   t  tsl. orbs. sd ea-.1 -  Paptlati    (total,  r-
thrl eleotricity        lokilageso of ...I eipsivleat per rapit.; 1960                      sdrrldvddbyterrsetv   anewe  of hos.pital beds  vaIlaible  00
1970, sad 1976 data.                                                                          pblic sod private gearr1 sod apeeislioed hostpita1 sod reh.bilittion Oratrra.
Hoopitel. sr  ostbli.sw.t. perussetly etaffed by at ltut one pbysiviso.
POOUIJoI0   AI Di VfITL STATISTICS                                                              E.t.blish.st. P-avtdissg prioeipaflly cstodial -oaro    . Oat inolad.d. B-a.]
T.;=ta pliioa. Iotd-YeaFmI-lions) - A. of J.ly 1; 1960, 1970, sad                             hospitals, howore, isel.d. health sod eediosi reotero tot pereaneotly atAffod
1977 dint.,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~by a pbysloisa  (but by a .ed.i-I aa.i.tsat, oo a,mdwife,  tco.) ohi.h offor
Orbs.Paissatio  (perest  f total) -ROttio  f sobsa to total Ppapulation;              iA-patiet   .ooaamdtimaa sd provide A limited rs.ge of medissl Psoilitie..
differet drfii.itio-`tf2gbsa  -0a5  ap affoot o-Mpsability of dmt.                       Admbssios  Mer HasDibtelthod - Total somber of admiseins to or disehg.oge  from
tinsgooatoroes;1760, 1970, sod 1975 data.                                                h-apitala divi ded b  tyobor of b.do.
itpltiaPr -jois
P,ltais ros  1000 - Co-ro-t popultiO  Prolvotiose se  baed a                  H01U515
1975 total, ppslstioo by ego sd ova sad their aortliitysaud fertility                  Average Slo-of  ossehlfd apersosa pe  hassehod) -  toal. obsi   sa d r-rs  -
.Itr. Prlotio  parmters for  ortolity otetr  -oegis  of three                            A h-tohol.o1        tt. o      r_spofidii,Alswh  so    iivo:  gxo,tetve, ssd
iron,  uooiglfe  -opeot-y at birth isr ... i.g adth  -otry's                             their mi.i  meala.  A boeder or lodger se  to may sot be iolded iv ti
Per -pits i-om   level, sd fve,slv life esproissy stabiliaisg at                         hoasehold for  tti.tiatal psoposes.
77.5 Yrar.  The psafote-  for fertility rto als. hsve three level                      Aversee  abahr of trosprrt  -_total,  rbs. _s.d n.                     Aceage oreb-r
fos-iog d-olio-  in fertility  -oord.ig to Isoam  leve  sd psat                          of porca  per rom  0.1   oc,sdrrisoped                          ets~...aI doelliogo,
fsmdll  olesieg performsoo. ioh  -ottry is the. -.sig.ed  -s  of thes r.o..p-tively.  h-1s1iogs eoltd. so-ps.eoeot otrotoov  sod  -oocpied p-rts 
sloe  -obio-tioso of mortality sod f-rtiloty treeds for projeotios                     Aosa.. to ileotrisIty(Peroet of delips) - total, orbs, so,d rural -  Co-
por  -o.                                                                                   otiaona  doellog  wit   eetiiy"i  living qOssters *5 pvee-tsge of
lstloasry paolatioo  - To a otatioanoy popolatlo- ther  is oo grow-th                      total, urboa, sd rura  doefliogo  r-opetleely.
sitar the lirth estv io equal to thy dr-th rate, sd also the sge
strot-oers.itaostsot. Tots io  boieved only  fter fertility rates                   EDUCATION
deoive  to th  relometlve   foOtst reprodactios rate, whe                              Mdgted  ftirlienet Rtios
-at  georstioeo   se  relos,            _wfcstly.  th  statiosay pops-                   Priaay  school - totl  mal saI d female -.oss total, male  od fresale  -tral-
la.o   aloe wao -timatd oo the bisl  of the proleoTttd ohsosteristios                     met of all ages at the primsy level asperoetsge  of r-pooti-e Priay
of th  poplattol it the year 2000, sod the r-te of doli.e of fertility                       thool-oge popsa.tlas; narsially i-old-s ohildreo  eged 6-Il y-or  b.t
raOv 00~ r-Pir- t lorr.                                                                      d.djut.d for diffor-t 1-gtha of priasoy edo-tioo; far  -.uteioa aith
te-  stl-toso  Rapoltio to resold - The yve  shea sttio... y pooss.isolo                      uoivvra.I uet      -oeola-t na  ea-ed 100 M-toa    a,eta m   501
ai-y Is  bevy resold,                                                                       ore Ibelow  or  h- tho Official ..h.01 see.
P.polat ts Dessity                                                                            ieCondady .oh-ol - total, male sod female - Computed a- .1. -;  --d-oty
Per s. ha. - aid-yea  popLlati.t Per noiar  kolo-ter (100 h-ot-e) of                          rdo-ti-oreqaireat 1-at four ye-  of app--od prI-ay  -toeruti-;
to talrc                                                                                    proold- g-eerl  -oti-1a, or t-eh-r tr.ialog  -Otr-t--t  Ir pupils
Per to  s.  ogiolool  m     - Cospted ao Itov  foe agrio~t-tarl 1sod                          usually of 12 to 17 years of age:   orepoodoa    0005  r  g--erilr
only.                                                                                       OaOlOdId.
Popolatio   g ituioo(o et) - Childre   (0-li. yeas,I                 rio-g                    O.tosini eriet   evt Of .vo-tSy) - OOOOtOOa   itttut00ld
)15-hlyears, sadretird  (15y-ro ordor) as         . peotae f mid-year                teohira,idsra,o   te    rorm ohoOpatndpedtlOr0
otytieion;  760, 170, sd 1-97da.                                                        depart-ett  of s-ooadry tslu   0
Poosltia  roohRte(ecot    total - Aoooal growth  sten of total mid-                           "PpI'-tesherratioToiar    a   eooa                 -tota  Otudoot    -11oid i.
yopoaatioe  for 1956, 176-70, sd 1970-77.                                               primary sad Oocoadary b-nn   IVdiodd by nmb-r  oftes-h-s  lo the  or.
P~to lptio  iroath Rate (Ovovtj I   as   - As...al gro~O  -ates at -b-Is                        apdiog 1-1alo
popsatitt fo  195-hi,19b0-70, sod 1970-75.                                          Adult liteecy rat Ipret      I eaeaut (tittov                      -oad orite)a
Grade  itrt  Rate (Oar thtuantd) -  oA ...l 1100 birtha tIe  rthossd of .1d-                    aeratg of                 Idha    dut pop.latlot aged 11 poar  Oodoer
Yea poPolstioo; l960, 1970, sod 1977 data.
erode Death Ostr (pr thou-sod   - OA-al deatho Pvr thonuasd 0, -ld-y-s                   COI5000'Il
popoatlt; 160,197,   d 1977 data                                                                     'PbogrCas(0vibusd  Po tite)   - PoR-g oa       Pcarose  -strr Or
Iroos RPr.dutiot late -  orAgo toole   f da-ghter  a woss  viii b-saalgla   hatgt  ese;enue   ,hloto   er,asdelt
ilee  -ormal r-prd-ti- perid of oe  -operie-o-  presot age-                               -ehicia.
opeo  t_ f-rt'Iilty  r-t-;  -oos1y f-r-yea  averges  -odlg in 1760,                      RaiAllra  (e  iusdetsale       i  type  o f r-o.vr  for  -odo
1972  sd 1921                                                                              raOoso5arl011   e  Ioaod of p`WIot oa;                                  'Ii.uo  .li oea_.
Za-ly PIaoo  - A-pet-ra  OseA-    (th-ossd.) - As-..a  toble  of                              ree           ..s - o,tri- sod -n yaro  h-e r-giotr-ti- Of rt.isrtota
-rePt.r. of blrth-oo-troI deet-  uder a-.Pi.os of Itatlol fIasly                            effect  Onto for r-oet year  nay not be  -oparbl,,Ie  00001 rv
planing   -proga.                                                                           abolithed li--gnt.
EteilyPisoela - Osro (peoerotf asre   oe)-Pev-tegr of e.rr-ed                     TO ReeV-or  (PEr thtossOd p.pu1.i-t ) - CO r-ie-rr  for b-od-at tr, gt--l
sova  h chii-lestn   art(5-l  pra    1        0      thirt-tonrl d-vio-                -oloprtoosd popolatioc; roo1dro slicen-d fTrV----r it. --utrsr
to all wo-r-d ..-. iIt a  age grop.                                                        sod i0ea a,_   hvn rogdtrotioe of TVf -ets sos 1,ffort.
of"dil  gnealiat-evt acos-per ,  defined Ps           , ridla    ulfto
O.d- OfP.Irdoto   e  CoPita (19b9-71-100) - Icod- of Per -pit,                               de-ted pro-fyt  rcriggeeo   r                       tZ it-tid-ed Pto be "doily"
nnoal Produo~tion  of all foo.d  -oediti-. Podo-tioa v-lde- ted sod                         of it topp-rs at l"'t fou  tOce,    - ek,
_r d d00 ooIairyroa  01-0i.  C-sdo tie   --or p--osy ... da                           Cites ddot-I Atte-danePe -          o    e  Yea  -EI-d  -n th, Ios- r  ft-Ret
(r.   ogaraltatrd of ugar)  hi-h ar  edill  sod ...otois to i-ets                      told duriagthyav    rodtgtiooasodir-nconaOtt.tY
rorrg, eqoooalrtt .f ceo 7.09  -uppl-o  -ailable  is oo...try Per 0001t.0              Total Labt  Ftron  It ousod,   E-         .-ooaoIly st-r  pero-, i-ol.dit,  -eee
P_y day.  Olo_lIrl  -ppyl-o  oer    dometic pr-d-rtlon, osPrts 1hs                        foroe I. d     _oeloyed lot  -xlud!,ag bo...o-e, students, t t   lefi.to.o
.op_rto.-   ~~ s>Oo eTo  to-o .  Met o.prlle  e-clde atlea  feed, seds,                  ooari-ooIo.r.. t        bi e tot -css,ya..ble.
q     -ttressd  00 f'od p......ag  mcd --oe  i0 dlitro-t-. Rqaire-               Femle   eece-t) - fe-Il  labor for-  -o pe-ttege of total 1IIcr f-r-.
met  soor tivtd or 010  _ane   Pthy-lolg-1o -rds for tor-o                       ris            --oeeett   - LAbor  -Irc  in forelg , foretry, huctog sod
ooososp  nod ocaltir 00c odo  to , o   -n lteertr.   -oy   rohts,                 flshiag 00 Per-etage Of total labor forc.
euO00100   o    trot   o  0cplc   t  o   lsg1    Ieco  toe                          ledootry (percet) - Lab-t--foc  nta g, cstu t                      -a orflot-rogm
h,-htlooutld 1oo,.                                                                  e1eotricoty, oktte  sd gao toPe--tage of total Itbor foCe.
roe OSrot opply -C proert ~r~o Pc  del  - Pt'-oo,-ot-t -f Pee                  Partcatosbae   -ec-t) -total sole, so, -1 eal- P-rrioc pti-to
caPotI Oc1t 2.pply If food Per da. Nct supply of food oo deicdl                           _ctitl?typrsteoatreoa-utvd as total, male, and fe balr  Iabse            -ora   pe-
It_cbeureeofor all o--t-oc   -tabl-sted by 01110 Pr-ide for a                            ortge   f total, male sod feele ppolation of sil aget repeetely,
li-no   all--so    Ir tO gr-o  oIf total proetvis per dy sod 20 gr-n  05                 IroO, 1972, sod 1975 data.  Thes  or  lIt 0,  ptocopot-c  -aten r-fle-t,g
soiso  sod poe proteie, of 00101 15 gram   should be  nimal prote-c.                     agote   tr-t.re of the ppolt-o, sod long t-n  t-etd.  A fe- -est-et
The--TtodroorYo trh-  to-cof 75ges-oo-.et-   p-otei  sod                                 arof-ooatiottl1sr---
20den   -.1coo  P-ot-o to an  -ergr for thvo-rld, pr-p-ad by PI A                        otl &  D7epdeo         tI   -_Ratlo of POPuIIl-o ucder it sad .O sooert
I-ap  tme 'co   oply Ii1.-         __e . ,Odsr. uo  lrlo c P-t   -upplyr of food
vo   rnsioisd Po-Fie' on  oer  teeda                                   IhCO2dS  DISTRIoLdTIib4
'to~ I   ges 0 0  1, rOt it  Ont  'prrtboosol~   locIs  deatto  per toooo sd  Peroata   of PeotPIes -         (bothls    -h sod Is-d) - Re.eo-d by eioheat
o  ordc ~     .pne                Id  ...r in thit ar   r.;frma  doi                           eoa,eldet 210 Icot, pooreo-t 20 peroet, sod pooret 40 peroeet
.rK r-rIntr. _s adto. d r__       s  ol_-f  tlbr-                                          of hou-holda.
LqA',T}-                                                                                   POVE0TY TARGEC GROUPS
0~' 'ar 00br-I-' .ar boocor rio- cro-   y-ar  of lifr                     Estiasted Aboolote P0ce-ty Iscoa  -evl($cropo-uesIt  rsrl 
e's'    I,,oo    Locr..   1 71, -Ad>077  d--,                                      Al-sItec rt pioop-tylishai nc-eeelb-1seboli,oI
rod,S iV-.o> o~fa.   toe r  rotod) - -ILoo     1-thlo of -nf-tn  under 0eotroti ...ly tdoquste d-et plus eoeta                      .o-f od requ-est-r      ot
~'5O  0'ore coo.,, l-d lioo 0irth..                                                    I ffrdabir-
-ufootc-    -   ltr-tr- hot                    pn--ol ie-..e of the  -otry. drerbeve  so1  d--lid fr-  tOo rurI leor
-r.tcotod br-hled, Op-lgs,                     silt  adut-t for higher cot tf liriag on urbtara
or' r 1    o poecoeoge- ofeccor erosotlompopolItoo-    It      Estomted FPoplIt-o Brios OlAlote Poc-ty 1--n Leon  (Aec-tt( - orurtd
.00  5.  r-t oi-nr sapbe consoder-d us bel,g actonre.o_ona-lE,
.    00. too-. ToM-da," oeu   __ooal  aooo_  -ood   ply
pi    - --  h orb.Iy -i frtb,h-g the f-dlly'. nst-eoed.                                                        c__oiO oA-ly-i  SOd Proir~tl... iep-rt-ot
A.grost 1979r



-24-                        Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
Annual Rates of Growth
US$ Mln        %            1972-75           1976-78
GNP at market prices                883.7       100.0             6.9                5.0
Gross domestic investment           348.2        39.4            27.0                8.2
Gross domestic saving               222.5        25.2           -13.2               -7.0
Current account balance            -119.7       -13.5              -                  -
Exports of goods, n.f.s.            440.5        49.8            -7.9                6.9
Imports of goods, n.f.s.            566.2        64.1             8.7                3.4
OUTPUT, LABOUR FORCE AND                                         1/
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978          Value Added         Labour Force           V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln     %       Thousand       %           US$        %
Agriculture                  177.8      22.4        60.8       30.7       2924.3    73.0
Industry                     223.1      28.1        45.9       23.2       4860.6    21.4
Services                     392.9      49.5        91.5       46.1       4294.0      7.2
793.8     100.0       398.2      100.0       4005.0    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE              Central Government  2/
R Mln        % of GDP-
1978/79     1978   1976-78
Current revenue              1486.0       27.2     27.5
Current expenditure          1722.0       31.6     30.0
Current deficit              -236.0      -4.3      -2.4
Capital expenditures          667.0      12.2      12.6
Foreign financing (gross)   379.0          6.9      6.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976        1977      1978
(R million outstanding at the end of the period)
Money and quasi-money                   2083.9       2351.6   2861.5
Claims on Government (net)               580.6       1075.2   1536.0
Claims on private sector                1157.2       1432.8   1566.8
(Percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi-money as % of GDP         51.7         48.2      52.4
GDP deflator (1976=100)                  100.0        111.8    120.7
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP deflator                               -           11.8       8.0
Claims on Government (net)                59.5         85.2      42.9
Claims on Drivate sector                  55.0         23.8       9.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/
Eu'ployment in large establishments.
2/
Government finance in fiscal year as % of GDP ir calendLr year.
November 21, 1979



-25-                        Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(US$ Million)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS        1976   1977   1978
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
Exports of goods, n.f.s. 357.4  402.4  440.5
Imports of goods, n.f.s. 405.8  490.2  566.2                       US$ Mln           %
Resource gap               -48.4  -87.8 -125.7      Sugar            208.9          69.8
Molasses          5.5           1.8
Investment income (net)    5.8   -2.6   -7.8        Tea                6.7           2.2
Net transfers                6.3   12.7   13.8      Manufactures    64.3            21.5
Current account balance  -36.3  -77.7 -119.7        Other products   8.7             3.0
Re-exports        5.1           1.7
Long term capital            7.2    8.5   12.2            Total      299.2        100.0
Net MLT borrowing:
Disbursements              4.6   10.5   30.8
Amortization               1.2    3.6    2.4      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978(US$Mln)
Subtotal          1/       3.4    6.9   28.4
Other capital (net)        -51.2   12.6   25.4      Public debt outstanding
and disbursed               151.1
Change in reserves          76.9   49.7   53.7
(decrease +)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
Memo items
Use of IDe  credit            -    13.4   14.6      Public debt, including
Net foreign assets          92.8   43.9   19.6        guaranteed                  2.4%
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                    IBRD/IDA LENDING OCTOBER 31, 1979(US$Mln)
IBRD      IDA
1976             1977            1978           Outstanding and
US$l.0-R6.6824  US$1.0=R6.5996  US$1.0=R6.141          disbursed                25.4      19.0
Rl.O=US$0.1496  R1.O=US$0.1515  Rl.O=US$0.1628    Undisbursed                  42.1       1.2
Outstanding including
undisbursed             67.5      20.2
1/
Includes short term private capital, SDR allocation and errors and omissions.
November 21, 1979



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1979)
Amount
Loan or                                                          (Less Cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million
Number      Year      Borrower          Purpose                 Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Two Loans and four Credits have been fully disbursed            12.0   15.0
239-MAS    1971      Mauritius    Smallholder Tea                      5.2      1.2
976-MAS    1974         "          Port I                      10.0             3.2
1033-MAS    1974         "          Education                    3.5             1.0
1168-MAS    1975      DBM           Development Bank III         7.5             1.6
1339-T-MAS  1976      Mauritius    Revised Port I                3.6             1.6
1481-MAS    1977      DBM           Development Bank IV          7.5             4.9
1543-MAS    1978      Mauritius    Second Education             15.2            14.8
1548-MAS    1978                    Second Power                15.0            15.0
TOTAL                                              74.3    20.2    43.3
of which has been repaid                          5.4     -         -
TOTAL now outstanding                              68.9    20.2       -
Amount sold                      5.0
of which has been repaid       3.6                1.4    20.2       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/                  67.5    20.2       -
TOTAL undisbursed                                  42.1.    1.2    43.3
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of October 31, 1979)
Year       Borrower               Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1971    Dinarobin Inns
& Hotels Ltd.                Tourism                      0.6      -        0.6
Total gross commitment                                 0.6      -        0.6
Less cancellations,
terminations, re-
payments and sales                                     0.4               0.4
Net fixed by IFC                                       0.2               0.2
Total undisbursed                                      0.0    0.0        0.0
1977    Maritim Mauritius 2/                                       1.9    0.7        2.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Approved by the Executive Directors on November 23, 1976 but not yet signed.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 239-MAS   Smallholder Tea Development ProJect: US$5.2 million Credit
of April 9, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: June 11, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project sought to develop existing Government tea plantations
and establish new ones (about 3,000 acres) with a view to leasing them sub-
sequently to smallholders. However, in February 1975 an unusually severe
cyclone devastated wide areas of tea plantations. In the past few yeaLrs,
wage rates have escalated, alternative employment opportunities have increased
following the creation of the Development Works Corporation and the initial
success of the Government's industrialization program (export processing
industries). Tea prices on world markets have been steadily declining. As
a result of all these factors, interest in leasing small tea plots from the
project waned. The Government is now thinking of restructuring the project
into a commercially-managed tea estate to maintain minimum production and
cut the tea operations losses. However, it is doubtful whether the profit-
ability of the tea industry in Mauritius can be restored. We have indicated
to the Government that we would wait until the end of this calendar year to
receive their restructuring proposals. As of October 31, 1979, there was about
US$1.2 million undisbursed in the credit.        
Credit No. 422-MAS   Industrial Estate Project: US$4.0 million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Construction of the Coromandel Industrial Estate is complete and the
credit is fully disbursed. Occupancy, however, is proceeding slowly. As of
December 1978 only about 53 percent of the available space was occupied. This
reflects the general investment slowdown in Mauritius. There have also been
problems with regard to the quality of maintenance services provided to the
estate transport of workers to the estate and skilled labor availability. The
Estates Authorities now expect that full occupancy will be reached inl 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengthis
and weaknesses in project execution.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan No. 1168-MAS    Third Development Bank Project: US$7.5 million Loan of
October 21, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 9, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan provides financing for the foreign exchange component of
the Development Bank of Mauritius loans and investments in industry, agro-
industry and tourism. The project is proceeding well. All funds under the
project are fully committed and about US$5.9 million have been disbursed.
Loan No. 1481-MAS    Fourth Development Bank Project: US$7.5 million Loan of
August 29, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan provides financing for the term foreign exchange needs of
medium and large scale industrial, tourism and agro-industrial projects. Of
the US$7.5 million loan amount about US$5.1 million has been committed and
US$2.6 million disbursed.
Loan No. 976-MAS      Port Project: US$10.0 million Loan of April 12, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: June 13, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Loan No. 1339-T-MAS Revised Port Proiect: US$3.6 million Third Window Loan of
December 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA) has made contractual arrange-
ments with a new private dock company established by the existing dock compa-
nies for cargo handling operations, and is making good progress in exercising
its responsibilities. Nevertheless, waiting time for ships is still excessive
and attention is now being focussed on improving cargo handling procedures.
Physical execution of the project is proceeding well. Construction
of the new berth facilities is making good progress. Tendering for support
facilities such as administration, workshop and fire station buildings is,
after some initial delay, now underway and evaluation of bids has been com-
pleted since last June 1979.
The Mauritius Marine Authority has been formally established and
is now operational. Organizationally, MMA is now fairly well established and
staffing in the various departments is adequate. Financially, MMA is in a
very satisfactory position, having started its accounting activities in July
1977 with a tariff increase of 20 percent on existing tariffs. Additional
tariffs in certain other areas have also been introduced.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan No. 1548-MAS    Power Transmission Project: US$15 million Loan of
April 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: January 23, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of construction of 66-kV and lower voltage
transmission/distribution lines and substations; construction of a system
control center; consulting services and training.
The project is at the procurement stage. Contractors will supply
material only; all engineering works and construction will be carried out
by the Central Electricity Board (CEB). There has been about six months'
delay in procurement compared to the original schedule. This delay is due
to communication difficulties (distance) and formulation of tender documents
for procurement and construction contracts.
CEB has recently received consultants' offers for the preparation
of the studies set forth in the Loan Agreement for long range power pLanning,
reorganization, energy sector and training needs. The European Development
Fund's offer to carry out these studies has been evaluated as the mosit respon-
sive and lowest offer. The draft contract prepared by CEB and the European
Development Fund has been approved by the Bank.
The loan was declared effective on January 23, 1979 after the
Central Electricity Board increased its tariffs, thus satisfying the only
major condition for effectiveness.
Loan No. 1033-MAS    First Education Project: US$3.5 million Loan and US$3.5
and            million Credit of July 29, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
Credit No. 501-MAS   October 29, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Construction work was completed by the planned project completion
date of September 1979. Furniture and equipment are being delivered. A total
of 2,840 students are presently enrolled in the 12 project Junior Secondary
Schools. The Industrial Trade Training Centre is expected to begin operations
in mid-year although the initial start-up has been delayed by slow recruitment
of specialist instructors and slow deliveries of equipment under a Government
of India bilateral aid program. Teachers are being trained on a regular basis
at the Mauritius Institute of Education. The output is sufficient to provide
an adequate supply of teachers for the project schools. No change in the
closing date is expected. The Rural Education Center component has been
deleted from the project at the Government's request. The estimated total
project cost of US$13.7 million is about 18 percent higher in dollars than at
the time of appraisal. The foreign exchange requirements have now increased
from US$7.4 million equivalent to US$8.2 million as a result of increased
construction costs. The Government will provide these additional flnds. 67
percent of the estimated cost of the project has been spent and commitments
are close to 100 percent.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1543-MAS    Second Education Project: US$15.2 million Loan of
April 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project Unit is operating satisfactorily. It is adequately
staffed, including the procurement section. Architectural work is pro-
gressing satisfactorily despite the shortage of draftsmen at the Ministry
of Works and one consulting firm's delays, which may result in higher con-
struction costs. Construction is progressing satisfactorily: expansion of
7 of the 12 Junior Secondary Schools is expected to be completed by April 1980.
Nine schools are already operating. The bid documents relating to equipment
and furaiture for 12 Junior Secondary Schools have been approved by the Bank.
Utilization of converted facilities for students who are not regular Form I-III
students raises an issue which is being discussed by the Government and the
Bank. The Mauritius Institute of Education and the Mauritius College of
Education are operating satisfactorily. The study of the reorganization of
the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs is progressing satisfactorily
with assistance from consultants and a request to utilize available loan funds
for construction of a teaching aid prototype production unit is under review.
As of October 31, 1979 commitments represented 45 percent (US$11.4 million)
of project costs. Of these, about US$6 million are reimbursable by the Bank,
i.e. 39 percent of the loan, and the Government has submitted to the Bank its
policy statement for primary and secondary education, in accordance with the
Loan Agreement.



-31-
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                      n.a.
(b)  Initial Discussion with Bank:                   December 1978
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                              January 1979
(d)  Negotiations:                                   October 1979
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  April 1980
Section II._ Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(i) Government will provide DBM with adequate local currency
resources to meet its operational needs (para. 50).
(ii) DBM will from time to time exchange views with the Bank
on the level of its investments in sugar estates so as
to prevent an overpreponderance of investment in such
projects to the detriment of other investment projects
(para. 27).
(iii) DBM will consult with the Bank on the introduction of
positive rates of interest on sub-loans to small-scale
enterprises benefitting from concessional interest rates
(para 35).
(iv)  Proceeds of the loan will be used for DBM lending through
commercial banks or with the guarantee of commercial banks
only after agreement has been reached between DBM and the
Bank on the modalities of such lending. If no such agreement
is reached by June 30, 1980, the proceeds of the loan reserved
therefore may be used for DBM's regular operations (para 58).
(v) For the small loans to artisans and small-scale enterprises,
the Government will carry the exchange risk at no fee (para 57).



