ITh~M1A    LOAN NUMBER 1890 PH
Loan Agreement
(Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1890 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           _tt      /, 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (ereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration,
an agency established by the Republic Act No. 3601 of -the Bor-
rower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "BFD" means the Bureau of Forest Development in the
Borrower's Ministry of Natural Resources;
(c) "Letter of Instructions" means the Letter of Instruc-
tions No. 1002 of the Borrower, designating NIA as the lead
agency for the implementation of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement;
(d) "Pantabangan" means the Pantabangan watershed area,
as determined pursuant to the Letter of Instructions;
(e) "Magat" means the Magat watershed area, as determined
pursuant to the Letter of Instructions;
(f) "ha" means hectares of land; and
(g) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-eight million dollars ($38,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering, agricul-
tural and silvicultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the- Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (ii.,) shall furnish to the Bank at


﻿regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land or rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be appointed
a Project Director whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall, prior to any new appointment to
the post of the Project Director during the implementation of the
Project, afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on the qualifi-
cations and experience of the candidate.
Section 3.07. For areas requiring cooperative efforts between
NIA and BFD, the Borrower shall cause NIA and BFD by December 31,
1980 to complete arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include:
(a) BFD's role in the provision of technical services
for nursery and planting operations;
(b) NIA's access to the BFD training facilities and programs
at Pantabangan; and
(c) NIA's role in the provision of a joint forest protection
and fire prevention service for Pantabangan.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
-    (b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such
lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and
at no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal, of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the pur-
chase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets
of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the
extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories to make this undertaking effective,
the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be maintained
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, including,


﻿-6-
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures described in Categories (1) and (2) of the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with regard to
civil works carried out by NIA under force account and under
contracts each with a cost of one million Pesos or less and with
regard to plantation establishment, on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause to: (i) have such
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause NIA by December 31,
1980 to establish a commercial accounting system for Parts A,
B and C of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section. 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NIA: (i) by Decem-
ber 31, 1982 to furnish to the Bank for review, a plan for sharing
revenues produced by Project activities in Pantabangan; and (ii)
by June 30, 1983 to implement such revenue sharing plan satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
Section 4.06. After implementation of the revenue sharing
plan referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause NIA: (i) by June 30, 1985 to furnish to the Bank for
review, a plan for equitable sharing of profits produced by
Project activities, taking into consideration a reasonable return
on NIA's capital investment; and (ii) by December 31, 1985 to
implement such profit sharing plan satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Letter of Instructions
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a manner as to materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project or the carrying out of the Bor-
rower's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date                6 /9?O    , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             7550-CBP-PH
Manila                             0268-CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByS
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   7,000,000         45%
(2) Plantation estab-            15,000,000         45%
lishment
(3) Equipment, vehicles           9,000,000
and materials
(a) directly imported                          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manufac-                           100% of local
tured                                     expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured locally                           65%
(4) Consultants' services         3,700,000         100%
(5) Unallocated                   3,300,000
TOTAL               38,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) on account of expenditures made for Part D.3 of the
Project unless and until the Bank has been furnished with a
detailed plan of operations and an implementation schedule for
Part D.3 of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasovably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are


﻿- 11 -
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop
the watershed areas, and consists of the following:
Part A:   Reforestation
Reforestation with timber and agro-forestry species, of about
24,600 ha in Pantabangan and about 7,500 ha in Magat, including
establishment of nurseries.
Part B:   Ancillary Works and Equipment
1.   Construction and maintenance of about 350 kilometers
of forest roads in Pantabangan, and about 65 kilometers in Magat.
2.   Construction of charcoal ovens for conversion of fuel-
wood into charcoal at Pantabangan and Magat.
3.   Provision of buildings, equipment and vehicles for
Project implementation, forest protection and fire prevention in
Pantabangan and Magat.
Part C:   Institutional Support
1.   Establishment of a commercial management information and
accounting system.
2.   Design and installation of a revenue sharing plan, to be
followed by a profit sharing scheme.
3.   Preparation of establishment of a separate unit respon-
sible for watershed management including design of an equity
sharing system.
4.   Development of nursery, planting and marketing opera-
tions of forest products.
Part D:   Studies and Pilot Programs
1.   Feasibility study of an integrated development of the
Magat Watershed.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Range management and smallholder agro-forestry pilot
programs in the Magat Watershed.
3.   Integrated forest protection pilot programs in the
provinces of Nueva Vizcaya and Bulacan.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1986
through   March 1, 2000                     1,265,000
On September 1, 2000                             1,315,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         2.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  6.60%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  7.40%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  8.25%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 17 -
the Republic of the Philippines may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Republic of the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 18 -
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, vehicles and materials with unit prices not
exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 each may be purchased in
accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate of items to
be procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.   Subject to the provisions of Part C.3 hereunder, con-
tracts for civil works under the Project may be awarded in accord-
ance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
3.   Plantation establishment, and civil works for the
construction of about 250 kilometers of forest roads in Panta-
bangan, maintenance of roads, and works related to forest protec-
tion and fire prevention, may be carried out by NIA under force
account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more or civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 19 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    kLtday of4         , 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


