      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      DPO - DDO(P130051)



                                                                                                                      Report Number : ICRR0020194


1. Project Data



 Operation ID                                              Operation Name
 P130051                                                   DPO - DDO

 Country                                                   Practice Area(Lead)
 Romania                                                   Macro Economics & Fiscal Management



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                         Closing Date (Original)                                           Total Financing (USD)
  IBRD-81760                                               31-Dec-2015                                                             1,333,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                       Closing Date (Actual)
  12-Jun-2012                                              27-Oct-2014

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                Co-financing (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           1,333,300,000.00                                                               0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            1,333,300,000.00                                                               0.00

  Actual                                                        1,370,150,000.00                                                               0.00




 Sector(s)
 General public administration sector(34%):Transmission and Distribution of Electricity(33%):Health(33%)

 Theme(s)
 Public expenditure, financial management and procurement(22%):Tax policy and administration(11%):State-owned enterprise restructuring
 and privatization(34%):Health system performance(33%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                           ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Robert Mark Lacey                    Mauricio Carrizosa                    Lourdes N. Pagaran                   IEGEC (Unit 1)




2. Project Objectives and Policy Areas


a. Objectives
    The objective of the Development Policy Loan-Deferred Draw-down Option (DPL-DDO) is to support the Government of Romania’s efforts to
    meet the fiscal sustainability goals as defined by the EU Fiscal Compact. The reforms aimed to: (i) improve public financial management to
    enhance the efficiency of public spending and the Government’s revenue-raising capacity through better enforcement of tax laws; (ii) improve
    governance of SOEs in the energy sector to generate savings, and attract the private capital needed to modernize plants and increase their
    competitiveness; and (iii) enhance fiscal sustainability of public health care through the reduction of unjustified outlays and the reallocation of
    resources to high-return preventive care and health promotion programs.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                       Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          DPO - DDO(P130051)



      The efficacy of the program supported by the DPL is assessed separately in Section 4 for each of the three specific objectives stated in the
      paragraph above. The efficacy of the overarching objective -- supporting the Government of Romania’s efforts to meet the fiscal sustainability
      goals as defined by the EU Fiscal Compact – is also considered at the end of Section 4.




b. Were the program objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation of the series?
     No



c.   Pillars/Policy Areas
      There were three policy areas, derived directly from the objectives:

          • Public Financial Management: Public finance reforms to improve tax compliance, increase tax revenues, reduce tax administration costs and
          strengthen budget discipline. These reforms aimed at increasing revenue collection, significantly reducing the number of tax offices for small
          taxpayers (from 362 offices in 2011 to 47 offices by end-2014), the expansion of electronic filing to capture over 90 percent of all legal entities, and
          strategic fiscal management on the basis of a medium-term fiscal framework consistent with the EU Fiscal Compact.
          • Governance of State-Owned Enterprises in the Energy Sector: Reforms of state-owned energy generation companies aimed at fostering market
          competition and increasing investment, energy efficiency and economic growth. The state-owned enterprise (SOE) sector is large in Romania,
          especially in energy, and these reforms were necessary to remove market distortions, improve the transparency of contracts and sales and restore
          the financial situation of the respective SOEs. The DPL-DDO supported the termination or renegotiation of direct bilateral contracts for electricity
          sales by SOEs, increased reliance on the transparent wholesale Power Exchange (OPCOM) for electricity sales, the establishment of a gas trading
          platform, and price and tariff deregulation for electricity and gas.
          • Health Sector: Efficiency gains and enhanced financial sustainability. The DPL-DDO supported Government measures to rationalize the use of
          drugs, treatments, technology and hospital facilities, and reallocate resources to more efficient health prevention and promotion programs. These
          reforms were necessary to address the heavy bias towards inpatient hospital care and remove inefficiencies and unnecessary services and
          treatments.




d. Comments on Program Cost, Financing, and Dates
      The Loan was of €1 billion (US$1.33 billion equivalent, denominated in euros). The DDO was at the Government’s request in order to assist
      it in the building of its fiscal buffer, equivalent to about four months of financing requirements, and consisting of: (i) funds held at the
      National Bank of Romania (NBR); and (ii) the DDO funds could be drawn upon by the Government in case of shocks that were beyond the
      control of the Government. The Government’s objective was to build a fiscal buffer for 2012 and beyond amounting to about €5-6 billion.
      The fiscal buffer increased to € 5.5 billion in 2013 and was since maintained over the 2013-2015 period.. The disbursed proceeds of the
      DDO were not used to support routine public expenditures or to finance a widening of the public sector deficit. Rather, they have been kept
      to facilitate treasury and debt management operations, such as bond re-openings, which require a larger amount of liquidity (ICR, para. 25).
      While the initial intention of the government was not to draw the DDO funds, debt management considerations and the unexpected sharp
      increase in geo-political tensions in neighboring Ukraine, leading to considerably heightened risks and market volatility, prompted a request
      for the withdrawal of the funds as a precautionary measure. The DDO funds were, therefore, fully disbursed in two tranches, of €700 million
      (US$931 million equivalent) in mid-October, 2013 and of €300 million (US$ 402 million equivalent) at the end of June, 2014. Disbursements
      were contingent on a satisfactory medium-term macroeconomic framework and achievement of progress on the reform agenda. The
      operation closed on October 27, 2014, just over a year ahead of the originally planned closing date of December 31, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     The objectives of the DPL-DDO are highly relevant to the first of the three pillars of the World Bank Group’s 2014-2017 Country Assistance
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      DPO - DDO(P130051)



  Strategy for Romania: "Creating a 21st Century Government." They are substantially relevant to the other two pillars – "Growth and Job
  Creation" and "Social Inclusion." The DPL-DDO is specifically mentioned as one of the Bank’s main instruments in the area of the first pillar,
  given the operation’s focus on improved public financial management, tax laws and their implementation, state-owned enterprise reform and
  enhanced efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of health services. As the CPS (page 22) puts it, "a well-functioning public administration
  that utilizes effectively all fiscal resources (including EU funds) is a pre-requisite for improved service delivery." The objectives were also
  relevant to the 2009-2013 CPS, current at appraisal, updated by a Progress Report presented to the Board in December 2011. The focus areas
  of that document were the pursuit of public sector reform, growth, competitiveness, and social and spatial inclusion.

  The DPL-DDO is highly relevant to Romania’s goal of convergence with the European Union (EU), which requires measures to restore investor
  confidence, deliver commitments made at the time of EU accession on liberalization of energy markets, and reverse the decline in health
  standards. They are, moreover, highly relevant to the 2011-2013 National Reform Program (NRP), which articulated a medium-term agenda of
  fiscal management and structural reform. The NRP marked a gradual shift of the reform agenda away from crisis management and towards
  renewed growth and competitiveness gains, with a view to resuming and accelerating progress towards convergence with EU incomes and
  standards of living. In line with the DPL-DDO agenda, the NRP addressed (i) public finance reforms to abide by the Treaty on Stability,
  Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union (the Fiscal Compact) with the EU; (ii) energy sector reforms and in
  particular governance of energy state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and energy market liberalization; and (iii) public health care financial
  sustainability.

  The operation’s objectives were substantially relevant to country conditions. Romania had weathered relatively well the impact of the 2008-2011
  global crisis, albeit with mixed results and at a not insignificant social cost. By the end of 2011, the economy was showing signs of recovery, but
  government finances had uncomfortable cash and structural deficits, and inflation was high. The energy sector, far from contributing to the
  budget, was a source of deficits. Structurally, Romania was poorly positioned to meet more stringent EU energy policies and did not have the
  resources needed to modernize and enhance the sector’s competitiveness. Health services were inadequate, and provision was characterized
  by over-reliance on costly tertiary care, insufficient emphasis on prevention, lack of attention to cost effectiveness (especially regarding drug
  prescriptions) and a lack of clear distinction between the roles and activities of the Health Ministry and the National Health Insurance House,
  with both responsible for treatment functions.




  Rating
  High


b. Relevance of Design

  Design was explicitly focused on public sector management priorities which complemented and reinforced the IMF and EU-supported
  programs. Romania had a precautionary Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF which aimed to insure the economy against possible future
  shocks, boost its underlying growth potential, and sustain fiscal consolidation. The EU’s Precautionary Assistance Program, bolstered by
  technical assistance in public administration, was intended to support the consolidation of macroeconomic, fiscal and financial stability, while
  increasing the resilience and growth potential of the economy, enhancing administrative capacity, reforming the tax administration, improving
  public financial management and restructuring state-owned enterprises.

  DPL-DDO-supported reforms in public financial management focused on improving tax collection. Design incorporated relevant actions to
  strengthen the efficiency and cost effectiveness of tax administration by reducing the number of tax offices and introducing modernizing
  procedures such as the electronic filing of tax returns. However, there were comparatively few measures aimed at enhanced enforcement or at
  changing the balance of taxation away from over-reliance on the Value-Added Tax (where there is a very large gap between theoretical and
  actual collections) and on labor charges. Design also had few elements (outside the health sector) to address the other sub-objective of
  greater efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure.

  Design relevance of the DPL-DDO’s other two policy areas – state-owned enterprise reform in the energy sector and enhanced efficiency and
  effectiveness of health service delivery – is considerably stronger, doubtless reflecting the operational and analytical experience of the Bank in
  these two domains. Energy sector measures focused on increased transparency, greater competition and competitiveness, promotion of
  liberalization of the sector, and convergence with EU energy policies. One important issue – government (especially local government) arrears
  to publicly owned entities in the electricity sub-sector -- was not addressed under the DPL-DDO, but is likely covered in other parallel Bank
  operations and by Fund-supported programs. In health, design concentrated on the main priorities for reform, and the measures supported
  could reasonably be expected to lead eventually to substantial fiscal savings and a more demand-focused service delivery. One small, but not
  unimportant, omission was the lack of support to the Ministry and National Health Insurance House to strengthen monitoring of expenditures
  under the basic health package.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               DPO - DDO(P130051)




       Design rendered the overarching objective – to support Romania’s efforts to meet the fiscal sustainability goals as defined by the EU Fiscal
       Compact – at least partially moot. The fiscal sustainability goals for all member countries cite a maximum fiscal deficit of 3% of GDP. The
       DPO-DDL fiscal targets, which were established with the aim of stabilizing debt, averaged below 2%.

       Romania’s macroeconomic framework was broadly satisfactory at the time of the DPL’s preparation and approval. The medium term
       macroeconomic outlook was positive, despite the many challenges faced by European countries. The external balance was projected to
       stabilize in the medium term, with the current account deficit around 5 percent of GDP. Romania adopted measures to manage risks,
       safeguard financial stability, and to meet the ambitious fiscal consolidation targets of the EU Fiscal Compact. The fiscal deficit was projected to
       decline from 4.2 percent of GDP in 2011 to less than 2 percent in 2012 and to stabilize at 1.0 percent between 2013 and 2015. External
       indebtedness was high (it peaked in 2010 at almost 75 percent of GDP), but was projected to decline gradually through 2015 to 63.4 percent
       of GDP in spite of the slightly widening current account deficit.




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     (i) Improve public financial management to enhance the efficiency of public spending and the Government’s revenue-raising capacity
     through better enforcement of tax laws.

    Rationale
    Little information is provided in the ICR concerning measures to enhance the efficiency of public spending beyond those enacted in the
    health sector, which are considered separately below (see specific objective (iii)). The Borrower’s comments on the ICR (ICR, page 32)
    state that a public investment evaluation unit was established in the Ministry of Public Finance to prioritize investment projects. The IMF, in
    its comments on the ICR (ICR, page 39), acknowledges the importance of the Bank’s role in increasing transparency in the choice of public
    investments. It nonetheless judges that "public investment planning, executing, and monitoring remain a major weakness." The ICR (page
    13) cites the difficulty in absorption of available EU funding as one of the main reasons why public investment has not picked up. The IMF’s
    2015 Article IV Consultation Staff Report urges "stronger public expenditure management and planning as well as better project
    management" as necessary elements to improve spending efficiency and ensure provision of higher quality public infrastructure. The
    document (page 20) also states that "expenditure quality could be improved through an extension and enforcement of the investment
    prioritization initiative; scaling up of EU funds; and rolling out of the commitment control system to all public institutions."
    With regard to revenue-raising capacity, the program supported a number of actions designed to improve the efficiency and lower the cost
    of tax collection, including reducing the number of local tax offices for small taxpayers, approval of a restructuring plan for the Tax
    Administration Agency (ANAF) to further reduce the number of such offices, and an expansion in the use of electronic filing for tax
    declarations. To strengthen the enforcement of tax laws, about 1,700 staff were reallocated to prevention and control activities, a General
    Directorate for Fiscal Antifraud was created, and a taxpayers’ portal and a database for both central and local governments was developed.
    The European Commission’s comments on the ICR (ICR, pages 41-42) refer to "legal and functional reforms" which "increased the
    efficiency of the tax authority, reduced [the] administrative burden on companies, and had a visible impact on tax revenues."
    This visible impact was, however, limited during the four years covered by the program (2012-2014). According to the ICR (Table 4, page
    14), tax revenue in 2014 was €41.1 billion, up from €37.0 billion in the baseline year of 2011, and in excess of the target of €37.5 billion. As
    the ICR acknowledges, however, "the original tax revenue target was … modest [in view of] the expected temporary disruptions due to the
    reform of tax administration and the overall economic uncertainty." Moreover, tax revenue as a percentage of GDP (a more meaningful
    indicator of tax performance) remained virtually constant, even falling slightly, over the period 2011-2014:
        2009           2010          2011         2012        2013          2014
        26.7%          26.0%         27.6%        27.8%       27.2%         27.3%
    Source: IMF: 2015 Article IV Consultation Staff Report
    These tax revenue figures include social security contributions, which amount to about 8% of GDP. The remaining 19% represents a lower
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               DPO - DDO(P130051)



    tax revenue-to-GDP ratio than in most European Union (EU) member states. The collection gap (the difference between what should be
    collected according to existing tax laws and regulations and what is actually collected) remains high; the value-added tax (VAT) collection
    gap -- at 44% -- is the highest in the EU. There is, therefore, still a need for stronger revenue administration and better compliance, with
    efforts focusing on broadening the tax base and reducing the collection gap (IMF: 2015 Article IV Consultation Staff Report, page 10).
    Preliminary data indicate an improved tax performance in 2015, although that threatens to be reversed in 2016 (see Section 7 below).
    Tax administration costs as a percentage of tax revenue were the same in 2014 as in 2011 (1.11%), falling short of the target of 1.05%.
    The ICR (page 14) attributes this to "delays in the proposed consolidation of the tax offices system, disruptions inherent to the process, and
    increased expenditure to combat fraud and enhance transparency." These easily predictable factors call into question the realism of the
    target. ANAF is quoted by the ICR as confident that administrative costs would fall in the future as the reforms take hold. Preliminary
    estimates indicate that costs fell to 1.03% of tax revenues in the first half of 2015 thanks, in part, to increased collections.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Improve governance of SOEs in the energy sector to generate savings, and attract the private capital needed to modernize plants and
     increase their competitiveness.

    Rationale
    The program aimed to address a major transparency issue in the energy sector, which had significant repercussions for the financial health
    of the relevant state-owned entities. A significant number of contracts for the sale of electricity were, prior to 2012, negotiated bilaterally on
    terms highly unfavorable to the supplier. One of the program’s prior actions was a 2012 government decision to carry out sales by
    Hidroelectrica (a large state-owned enterprise accounting for some 30% of Romania’s total electricity supply) through a competitive
    marketing process, and to publish information on all bilateral contracts that were still current. Since 2012, no new bilateral contracts have
    been concluded. The share of all energy sector state-owned enterprises’ electricity sales through such contracts declined from 25% in 2011
    to less than 9.2% in 2014. The tariffs for bilateral contracts remaining in force are determined on the Power Exchange Market (OPCOM),
    and are frequently higher than the contract prices, which in many cases were below cost.
    As a prior action of the DPL, the Government prepared, approved and submitted to Parliament a new Electricity Law that transposes the
    EU Third Package of Energy Reforms (adopted in July 2009), which aims to keep prices as low as possible, secure electricity supply, and
    increase service standards. The Law would also establish the operational and financial autonomy of the energy regulator. The Law was
    approved by Parliament in 2012.
    Another prior action was the adoption by the Government (in March, 2012) of a roadmap towards the deregulation of electricity prices.
    Considerable progress has been made in implementing the program of actions set out in the road map. Electricity sales to non-residential
    consumers have been fully deregulated, and the share of electricity sales at regulated prices fell from 50 percent in 2011 to 17.9 percent in
    2014 (target 25%). Since January 2014, there are no regulated tariffs in the wholesale market, and all wholesale electricity sales for non-
    residential consumers are conducted at market prices. In 2014, 83 percent of all electricity generation was sold through OPCOM (target
    50%), compared with 25 percent in 2011. In each case, the program targets have thus been amply exceeded. The ICR (page 15) reports
    that the Government has put in place measures to mitigate the social impact of these developments, including means-tested cash transfer
    programs leading to a guaranteed minimum income, family allowances, and heating benefits.
    These reforms have led to increased profits and internally financed investments by energy sector state-owned enterprises, and have
    attracted private capital through privatization. The impact on Hidroelectrica, however, has been more muted than expected. The entity’s
    annual gross pre-tax revenue rose from €755 million in 2011 to €765.8 million in 2014, short of the target of €898 million. The ICR (page 15)
    states that the shortfall was due to a lower water availability than anticipated and to a decline in wholesale prices following market
    liberalization. In addition, there are still ongoing legal disputes between Hidroelectrica and the traders which had previously benefited from
    low tariffs in the bilateral contracts. These disputes forced Hidroelectrica to declare insolvency in 2014. Despite this, and thanks to a far-
    reaching internal restructuring, the entity’s net profits rose from €1.4 million in 2011 to €214 million in 2014, and profits were expected to be
    even higher in 2015. The company’s financial situation, therefore, appears to be solid, and it is anticipated that it will formally exit
    insolvency in 2016. The Government plans to enable private investment in Hidroelectrica through an initial public offering of shares on the
    stock exchange.
    The Government’s program also included more general governance reforms for state-owned enterprises including reconstitution of Boards
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               DPO - DDO(P130051)



    of Directors, adoption of guidelines for the implementation of modern corporate governance practices, and movement towards international
    financial reporting standards. With Bank technical support, the Ministry of Public Finance has improved its monitoring of state-owned
    enterprise performance, with a particular focus on budgets and arrears.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Enhance fiscal sustainability of public health care through the reduction of unjustified outlays and the reallocation of resources to high-
     return preventive care and health promotion programs.

    Rationale
    The DPL-supported program aimed at enacting policy measures which would initiate a process of deep reform of the Romanian health
    sector, which faced (and continues to face) a number of fundamental difficulties. Building on the reform agenda of 2009-2011 (which
    focused on containing rising costs and improving service quality), the program aimed to promote cost-effective outpatient and primary care
    services (replacing costly in-patient services), introduce co-payments, rationalize hospital infrastructure, and review the basic benefit
    package reimbursed by the public health insurance system (with particular regard to the introduction of new drugs and technologies). The
    prior actions – exclusion of certain drugs for which there is no scientific medical evidence supporting their inclusion -- from the basic
    package, implementation of the 2012 National Hospital Master Bed Plan, and establishment of the institutional framework for the
    implementation of the Health Technology Assessment -- were broadly consistent with this agenda. In addition, the Government
    implemented additional measures to control expenditure and improve the efficiency of health service delivery:

        • A negative list of health services and drugs was introduced by NHIH based on the recommendations of the technical assistance activities carried
        out by the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence.
        • The Health Technology Assessment (HTA) department of the Ministry of Health is now operational, and designed an interim simplified HTA
        methodology, currently applied to the pre-approval of new drugs.
        • Co-payments for hospital services (excluding emergency services), based on modest fixed amounts were introduced in March 2013.
        • The Ministry of Health started to implement a comprehensive reform of the healthcare system, focusing on a basic health package, a list of
        reimbursable drugs, and updating of national health care programs.
        • In 2013, the Ministry of Health gradually started to introduce centralized procurement for medical supplies and devices, with a view to lowering
        unit prices, improving transparency, enhancing oversight, increasing awareness of the availability and predictability of flow of supplies, and moving
        towards standardization.
        • A clearer separation is being made between preventive and curative health care. Health prevention and promotion programs are being handled
        by the Ministry of Health while the administration of the Ministry’ treatment programs are transferred to the National Health Insurance House
        (NHIH). The aim of this measure is both to improve administrative efficiency and to strengthen preventive care programs.


    As a result of these measures:

        • The number of hospital beds for acute care contracted by NHIH declined from 129,524 in 2011 to 121,579 in June 2014 (or 6.1%), exceeding the
        end-program target of 123,127. This represents important progress and follows an earlier reduction of 16% over the period 2002-2007.
        Nevertheless, the number of acute care beds and the number of hospital admissions per 1,000 population still exceed the EU average by 30% and
        29% respectively.
        • In 2014, preventive and health promotion programs received 36.9 percent of the state budget for all National Programs (this exceeded the target
        of 15% in the Program Document, which underestimated the 2011 baseline as 10%), compared with 16 percent in 2011. For example, the Ministry
        of Health allocated in 2014 about €4.3 million to a new program for early detection of cervical cancer, while the treatment of diabetes was moved
        from the National Program run by the Ministry to NHIH.
        • In 2014, 15 health care supply packages were developed under centralized procurement procedures producing budgetary savings estimated at
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               DPO - DDO(P130051)



        around €10 million.　
        • Revisions to the basic health package "did not have the depth expected at appraisal" (ICR, page 17). Fiscal savings in 2014 from the revisions were
        €26 million, well short of the target of €100 million. This is, nonetheless, a notable improvement, and is indicative that further savings may be made
        in the future. Policy action focused on ceasing NHIH reimbursement of the cost of two previously compensated drugs prescribed without compelling
        medical evidence. The fiscal benefits deriving from this were, however, partly offset by the introduction of 16 new drugs into the basic package in
        May, 2014. These drugs were not subjected to an HTA evaluation, as they should have been according to the undertakings supported by the DPL.
        Moreover, the Ministry of Health does not regularly monitor the detailed costs of the basic package, so that future savings from DPL-supported
        policies may be difficult to identify and assess.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 4

    Objective
     Overarching Objective: to support the Government of Romania’s efforts to meet the fiscal sustainability goals as defined by the EU Fiscal
     Compact.

    Rationale
    The Government submitted to the EU the Convergence Program Report for 2012-15 including a medium-term fiscal framework consistent
    with commitments undertaken under the EU Fiscal Compact (Table 2).
    Partly as a result of the outcomes related to the three policy areas, some progress was made in meeting these commitments. However,
    achievements fell short of the targets set at appraisal:
                                                  Table 2
                                                 Percent of GDP
       　                                 2011 baseline            2012                      2013                     2014

        　                                   　                         Target         Actual          Target         Actual         Target         Actual
        Cash fiscal balance*               -4.3                     -2.2         -2.5          -1.8           -2.5         -1.7          -1.9
        Govt** direct debt                 32.2                     31.6         35.8          31.2           36.9         30.6          38.0
    *DPL outcome indicator
    ** General Government
    Source: ICR, Table 4, page 13
    The increase in Government debt as a percentage of GDP, reflecting higher-than-projected cash and structural fiscal deficits since 2011, is
    a cause for concern, mitigated by the fact that most of the increase is in domestic obligations. According to the IMF (2015 Article IV
    Consultation Staff Report, page 23), non-residential debt holdings have remained roughly constant since 2010. The ICR (page 13) reports
    that, thanks in part to stronger fiscal performance, Romania’s external credit rating has been improved, putting it on a par with Brazil,
    Russia and Spain.
    The fiscal shortfalls compared to targets also reflect a weaker economic growth performance than anticipated. The assumption n the
    Program Document was for growth to accelerate gradually to 4 percent by 2015, buoyed primarily by further rising domestic demand and
    measures to improve competitiveness. While growth picked up significantly in 2013, driven by domestic demand and exports, the annual
    average during the 2012-14 implementation period was around 2.3 percent, strongly affected by the modest performance in 2012.
    While the fiscal consolidation since the global financial crisis has been impressive, only about a fifth was revenue based, with the rest
    relying on reductions in expenditure, especially public investment. There are also outstanding issues with the tax structure, including high
    reliance on a weakly administered VAT (the current rate is 24%), excise taxes, and one of the highest labor tax wedges (the difference
    between before- and after-tax earnings) in the EU. Although, as noted above, preliminary data indicate an improvement in tax collection in
    2015, there are notable downside risks to the sustainability of the fiscal improvements (see Section 7 below).
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         DPO - DDO(P130051)



 Rating
 Not Rated/Not Applicable



5. Outcome

The program's objectives are highly relevant to World Bank Group strategy for Romania, to the Government’s goal of convergence with the
European Union, and substantially relevant to country conditions. Relevance of design was, overall, substantial, although there were some
important omissions. The macroeconomic framework was satisfactory at the time of preparation and remained so during program
implementation. The efficacy of two of the three specific objectives -- improving governance of state-owned enterprises in the energy sector, and
enhancing the fiscal sustainability of public health care – is rated substantial. That of the other specific objective -- improve public financial
management to enhance the efficiency of public spending and the Government’s revenue-raising capacity – is rated modest: there is little
evidence provided of increased efficiency of public spending outside the health sector, and tax revenue as a percentage of GDP did not increase
over the period covered by the program. Regarding the overarching objective (to support the efforts to meet the fiscal sustainability goals of the
EU Fiscal Compact), although the 3% EU deficit target was met, those related to both the cash deficit and the debt/GDP ratio were missed.
Overall, the operation presents moderate shortcomings, and outcome is assessed as moderately satisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



6. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

According to preliminary data, tax collection improved notably in 2015, and (including social security contributions) may have exceeded 28% of
GDP. However, there is likely to be a reversal of this trend in 2016, presenting a moderate risk to development outcomes of the DPL-DDO.
Although the economy is on an upswing supported by strong domestic demand, the 2016 budget is inappropriately pro-cyclical with the initiation
of a package of tax cuts (VAT, excise taxes, special construction tax and others). The new Fiscal Code incorporating the cuts is estimated by the
IMF to add 1.0% to the fiscal deficit in 2016 and a further 1.2% in 2017. In addition, with parliamentary elections scheduled for 2016, there will
likely be pressures for further deficit-increasing measures. A round of public sector wage increases is already announced. The IMF estimates
that, in the absence of compensatory policies, the budget deficit would be 2.8% of GDP in 2016 and 3.3% in 2017 and 2018, compared to Fund
recommendations of 2.5%, 2.0% and 1.5% respectively (Concluding Statement of the 2016 Article IV Consultation Mission).
The risk of reversals in the energy sector is, by contrast, negligible to low. Indeed, in the context of policy dialogue and continuing Bank lending
and analytical support, further progress can be expected towards liberalization of the energy market, although there may be some hesitation in
carrying out a sufficiently aggressive restructuring of those state-owned enterprises in dire financial straits. In the health sector, it is unlikely that
the reforms supported by the operation would be reversed; however, further progress and resulting enhancement of health standards is likely to
be slow.
Overall political risks are rated moderate. There is broad agreement over most of the political spectrum concerning the need for structural
reforms and improved governance and transparency to enable Romania’s convergence with EU standards. Risk of reversal following the
parliamentary elections is, therefore, mitigated.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


7. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     There were a number of positive dimensions to Quality at Entry:

       • The operation had a strong strategic relevance, and was timely in its provision of support for Romania’s National Reform Program and as a
       contribution to the Government’s fiscal buffer.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                      Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       DPO - DDO(P130051)



     • Preparation benefited from a strong underpinning of analytical work and previous Bank support, notably in the energy and health sectors. It was
     thorough and succeeded in focusing more sharply what was initially a wider and perhaps over-ambitious reform agenda.
     • The preparation team insisted on maximum transparency and systematic consultation with stakeholders on the proposed reforms.
     • The Program Document (page 24) reports that several important lessons from the implementation of the 2009-2011 DPL program and the 2012
     IEG study on the World Bank Group response to the global financial crisis were applied in the preparation of the operation, including: focusing on the
     Bank’s comparative advantage; close coordination with other external partners in the design and monitoring of reforms; agreeing upfront with the
     Government on detailed reform implementation schedules and monitorable outcomes; mitigating the impact of political transitions and enhancing
     sustainability through broader political and civil society support for reforms; taking account of limited government capacity to design and implement
     coherent policies and the difficulties in obtaining parliamentary approval of necessary legislation; the need for accompanying technical assistance;
     and the importance of direct involvement at a high political level.
     • M&E design and arrangements were generally adequate, although there were some weaknesses in the choice of outcome indicators (see Section
     10a below).


  One moderate shortcoming was in the mitigation of risks. Although many risks were correctly identified and appropriately mitigated, in some
  cases difficulties were underestimated. These included the impact of the electoral cycle on continued fiscal consolidation, the complexity of,
  and time required for, the restructuring of the Tax Administration Agency, and capacity weaknesses in the Health Ministry which were to
  weaken the reform of the basic health package.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
  Five supervision reports were filed during the program’s implementation period (2012-2014). The ICR (page 24) reports that regular
  supervision missions consisting of international experts, together with constant oversight by the staff of the Country Office, ensured a
  continuous high quality dialogue that played an important role in keeping the program on track. The supervision teams focused on
  development impact and their Aide-Memoires provided useful feedback to the Authorities on the progress of the reform agenda as well as on
  the macroeconomic framework. The ICR describes them as "factual, candid and constructive." The team demonstrated appropriate flexibility
  in evaluating performance and was proactive in obtaining the Government’s agreement on changes in the formulation or timing of specific
  actions. Coordination and cooperation with other external partners, notably the IMF and EU, were highly satisfactory. In their comments on
  the ICR (ICR, page 40), the IMF described relations as "excellent."



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


8. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   Despite the fact that, during the program’s implementation period (2012-2014), Romania had three coalition Governments, the Authorities’
   ownership of, and commitment to, the reform agenda remained strong throughout. With few exceptions, implementation was efficient, and
   built upon Romania’s previous experience with Bank-supported reform programs. Adequate implementation arrangements were put in
   place: the Government requested the establishment of a Delivery Unit in the Office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister’s Office thus
   participated closely in all policy decisions, arbitrated diverging views when necessary, and facilitated coordination with the Parliament, the
   National Bank of Romania, and other stakeholders. M&E management was adequate, and provided the Bank and the Authorities with
   timely information on the program’s progress.

   However, as noted above, a degree of fiscal slippage manifested itself in 2015 and 2016. There is a significant risk of reversal of some of
   the hard-won fiscal gains, and also some slowing of structural reforms, though not in areas directly supported by the DPL-DDO.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       DPO - DDO(P130051)




   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   There were three principal implementing agencies – the Ministries of Finance, Energy and Health. The Ministry of Public Finance (MoPF)
   was responsible for overall coordination. The ICR (page 25) reports that it carried out this role efficiently and transparently, cooperated well
   with the line ministries in charge of reforms in energy and health, and promptly brought contentious issues to the attention of senior officials,
   including, when necessary, of the Prime Minister. Staff of the Ministry’s General Directorate for International Financial Relations
   accompanied supervision missions and actively participated in the drafting of Aide Memoires. The implementing agencies followed up
   closely on DPL-DDO implementation issues between supervision missions, were responsive to the requests of the Bank experts, and liaised
   continuously with the Bank office in Bucharest. The line ministries assumed ownership of DPL-DDO-supported reforms in their respective
   areas, and, for the most part, delivered their commitments in a timely manner. Nonetheless, capacity limitations were apparent, especially in
   the health sector. The implementation of the basic health package by the Health Ministry did not achieve the anticipated savings and was
   more limited in scope than initially planned. The downsizing of the Tax Administration Agency did not reach the levels to which the
   Authorities had committed themselves.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



9. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   M&E relied on the Government’s own system. Each of the three participating Ministries was responsible for collecting the data in its area of
   operation, and the Ministry of Public Finance coordinated the collation and presentation to senior Government officials and to the Bank. M&E
   design was based on the policy matrix and outcome indicators developed for the DPL-DDO.
   While the indicators for the energy and health sectors (policy areas i and ii) were fairly complete and relevant to the objectives as written,
   those for public financial management (policy area i) were inadequate in three respects. First, there was no indicator to measure
   improvements in the efficiency of public spending; second, there were no indicators directly reflecting enhanced enforcement of tax laws;
   and, third, tax revenues as a percentage of GDP would have been a more meaningful indicator than the absolute amounts of revenue
   collected.




b. M&E Implementation
   M&E arrangements functioned satisfactorily. The Ministry of Public Finance provided regular reports on the implementation of the agreed
   macroeconomic framework, on progress towards reforms, and on achievement of the proposed outcomes. The Ministry also ensured the
   Bank’s access to the requisite data and reports produced by the National Bank of Romania and other ministries and agencies as needed.
   Although no issues of lack of information or access to data were reported, there appears to have been no attempt to correct the deficiencies
   in the outcome indicators related to the first policy area.




c. M&E Utilization
   In addition to the monitoring of the DPL-DDO-supported program, the data generated by the M&E framework were used to assist in the
   identification of reforms in debt management, investment prioritization, the effectiveness of pro-poor spending programs, and performance of
           Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
           DPO - DDO(P130051)



   SOEs. These in turn are the focus areas of dialogue with the Authorities and of further policy lending operations being developed.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


10. Other Issues

a. Environmental and Social Effects
   No safeguards policies were triggered by this operation. The Program Document expected a positive environmental impact of the energy
   sector reforms supported by the Loan, through, for example, modernization of generating plants with up-to-date environmental standards.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
No fiduciary issues arose from this operation.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
     ---



d. Other
     ---




11. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                  ICR                               IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                  Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               ---
Risk to Development Outcome              Modest                           Modest                                ---
Bank Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               ---
                                                                                                                The ICR's rating should also be
                                                                                                                Moderately Satisfactory. It rates
                                                                                                                Quality at Entry Moderately
                                                                                                                Satisfactory and Quality of
                                                                                                                Supervision Satisfactory.
Borrower Performance                     Satisfactory                     Moderately Satisfactory               According to the IEG/OPCS
                                                                                                                Harmonized Evaluation Criteria,
                                                                                                                when both sub-ratings are in
                                                                                                                the same range, the overall
                                                                                                                rating would be the lower of the
                                                                                                                two.
Quality of ICR                                                            Substantial                           ---
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                         Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          DPO - DDO(P130051)



Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


12. Lessons

The ICR identifies a number of important general and specific lessons drawn from the experience of preparing and implementing this operation.
The most important general ones are:

     • The Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) was appropriate in this case, and would be worth more active promotion as an instrument for clients who seek
     risk insurance to adverse exogenous shocks rather than direct financing.
     • This operation demonstrated the clear benefits to policy-based lending arising from in-depth country and sector knowledge. Both the Bank and the
     Borrower were able to build upon a substantial body of thorough analytical work and on the experience from previous policy and investment lending in
     Romania and elsewhere.
     • The outcomes of policy-based operations can be greatly enhanced by the constant availability of technical and procedural advice from the Bank. In this
     case, the implementing agencies engaged the appropriate sector staff in the local Bank office and in Washington on a virtually continuous basis to discuss
     policy choices and decisions.
     • The option of involving, when necessary, the intervention of the highest level officials (in this case, the Prime Minister) can be critical to the success of
     politically controversial reform measures.




13. Assessment Recommended?

No


14. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is thorough, analytical and clearly written. The discussion of outcomes and the lessons learned are evidence-based. The presentation
of the macroeconomic background and the setting for the Loan is penetrating and useful. There are some relatively minor shortcomings. The
discussion of the relevance of objectives does not relate to the latest (2014-2017) Bank strategy document. The introduction of the
sustainability of reforms after the closure of the Loan into the discussion of efficacy is inappropriate in this case where sustainability was not a
specifically mentioned objective -- the issue of sustainability is better considered under risks to development outcome. The discussion of design
relevance (a three liner bullet point) is cursory. The rating of overall Borrower performance, given the sub-ratings for Government and
implementing agency performance, is incorrect. The document is long – 27 main text pages – and could have been reduced by judicious
editing.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
