                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2698



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-H2930 TF-91620)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10 MILLION
                        (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                         FOR A

   BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT STRENGTHENING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                       PROJECT (BESTAP)



                                   June 25, 2013




Finance and Private Sector Development
AFCS3
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)

                 Currency Unit = Malawian Kwacha (MWK)
                           US$1.00 = MWK 324

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 -December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
BESTAP    Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project
BRPs      Business Residency Permits
BUGS      Business Growth Scheme
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COMESA    Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
DB        Doing Business
Dfid      Department for International Development
DO        Development Objective
DRG       Department of Registrar’s General
EC        European Commission
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
FPD       Financial and Private Sector Development
FSTAP     Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
GAC       Governance and Anti-Corruption
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNI       Gross National Income
GoM       Government of Malawi
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICA       Investment Climate Assessment
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT       Information and Communication Technology
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MCCCI     Malawi Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry
MEPC      Malawi Export Promotion Council
MGDS      Malawi Growth and Development Strategy
MGDS II   Second Malawi Growth and Development Strategy
MIPA      Malawi Investment Promotion Agency
MITC      Malawi Investment and Trade Centre
MITPSD   Ministry of Industry, Trade and Private Sector Development
MOIT     Ministry of Industry and Trade
MoJ      Ministry of Justice
MRFC     Malawi Rural Finance Company
MSB      Malawi Savings Bank
MWK      Malawi Kwacha
NGO      Non-Government Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
OPCS     Operations Policy and Country Services
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PC       Privatization Commission
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PSD      Private Sector Development
PPD      Public Private Dialogue
PPP      Public Private Partnership
PURP     Privatization and Utility Reform Project
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
TEPs     Temporary Employment Permits
WB       World Bank
WBG      The World Bank Group




                        Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                      Country Director: Kundhavi Kadiresan
                       Sector Manager: Irina Astrakhan
                  Project Team Leader: Brian G. Mtonya
                     ICR Team Leader: Francisco Moraes Leitao Campos
                                  MALAWI
   Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project (BESTAP)



                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                      1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                       9
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              30
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            32
6. Lessons Learned                                                        35
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   37
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                      39
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             40
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  58
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    67
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results                                       69
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          78
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           83
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders         87
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                                     88
Annex 10 Other relevant information                                       89
Annex 11 Figures                                                          93
MAP                                                                       95
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Business Environment
                                                                            Strengthening
Country:                Malawi                    Project Name:
                                                                            Technical Assistance
                                                                            (BESTAP)
Project ID:             P103773                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2930,TF-91620
ICR Date:               06/28/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            MALAWI
Original Total
                        XDR 10.00M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 10.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 10.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry Industry Trade and Private Sector Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Commission

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/08/2007      Effectiveness:           10/10/2007           10/10/2007
Appraisal:            04/02/2007      Restructuring(s):                             11/19/2010
Approval:             05/24/2007      Mid-term Review:         09/30/2010           10/18/2010
                                      Closing:                 12/31/2012           12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                          No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory*
*Based on the ISR submitted on December 20, 2012.

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                 5                   0
Central government administration                                      58                  64
General industry and trade sector                                      25                  20
Law and justice                                                         8                  16
SME Finance                                                             4                   0


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                 13                  0
Legal institutions for a market economy                                13                  10
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             25                  16
Other Private Sector Development                                       24                  4
Regulation and competition policy                                      25                  70

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                          Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Kundhavi Kadiresan                    Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:            Irina Astrakhan                       Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:       Brian G. Mtonya                       Constantine Chikosi
ICR Team Leader:           Francisco Moraes Leitao Campos
ICR Primary Author:        Francisco Moraes Leitao Campos




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to support capacity development and investment climate
reforms in order to accelerate economic growth. One of the medium term outcomes in
Malawi's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is an improved climate for private business.
This project is one instrument by which the Bank seeks to achieve this outcome. This will
be done by reducing the regulatory burden and costs of doing business; improving service
delivery to the private sector; access to finance for Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs); and by strengthening support for technical and business management skills,
thereby improving productivity and competitiveness at the firm level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective of the Project is to improve the ease of doing business processes in Malawi
in order to increase foreign and domestic private sector investment in the economy.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Cost to formally start a business as a % of GNI per capita
Value
quantitative or   215.7%                     70%                                 90.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2006                11/30/2011                        11/30/2011
Comments          Target largely met. Over 85% of the reduction in cost was achieved. This is using
(incl. %          the DB 2012. The figure for the DB 2013, which is not in the M&E framework,
achievement)      is 83.7%, continuing the downward trend.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Legislative backlog of bills impacting on cost of doing business
Value
(quantitative     40                         0                                   16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/24/2007                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments          Target largely met. Twenty four bills / acts / regulations were either enacted or in
(incl. %          force, or stand before the Cabinet or Parliament. Another 22 are in advanced
achievement)      stages before submission to Parliament.
Indicator 2 :     Time to settle commercial disputes
Value                                                                            96 days in CD_HC
                  337                         180
(quantitative                                                                    / 432 in DB's

                                                   iii
or Qualitative)                                                                Magistrates Court
Date achieved 11/30/2006                    11/30/2011                         11/30/2011
                Target met. The Commercial Division of High Court takes an average of 96 days
Comments
                to settle a commercial dispute. The indicator in the PAD indicates that the source
(incl. %
                is the DB, which only follows the Magistrate's Court, not addressed by activities
achievement)
                in BESTAP.
Indicator 3 : Automated business registry database at DRG
Value           Not listed as target at
(quantitative   entry. The baseline at                          Yes            Yes
or Qualitative) restructuring was "No".
Date achieved 11/19/2010                                        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target met. Database system is installed but it has not been launched.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : % Business Registration transactions that are electronic
Value           Not listed as target at
(quantitative   entry. The baseline at                          50%            0%
or Qualitative) restructuring was 0%.
Date achieved 11/19/2010                                        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
                Target not met. Database system is installed (see Indicator 3), but it is not yet
(incl. %
                operating.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Time to formally start a business
Value
(quantitative   37                          10                  5              39
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                    11/30/2011          11/30/2011     11/30/2011
Comments
                Target not met. There is a number of regulations that once effective can improve
(incl. %
                this rating in the DB. Trend went downwards due to DB reclassification.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : % Electronic Transactions in Department of Lands
Value           Not listed as target at
(quantitative   entry. The baseline at                          50%            100%
or Qualitative) restructuring was 0%.
Date achieved 11/19/2010                                        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
                Target met. System of automated registration of property operational even in
(incl. %
                regional centers.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Time to register property
Value
(quantitative   118                         60                                 69
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                    11/30/2011                         11/30/2011
Comments        Target largely met. 84 percent of the target met with a steady decline in the time
(incl. %        to register property. It was below the target in DB2011 but then went back above
achievement) it.
Indicator 8 : No of achieved reforms on Ease of Doing Business per year
Value           Not listed as target at                         3 per year     2 per year

                                                iv
(quantitative   entry. Two reforms on
or Qualitative) DB per year at
                restructuring.
Date achieved 11/19/2010                                           11/30/2011      11/30/2011
Comments        Target partially met. There is a pipeline of reforms with new legislation that the
(incl. %        MITPSD is hoping to obtain recognition from the DB report, but that has yet to
achievement) happen.
Indicator 9 : % Business Permits through electronic transactions
Value
                Not listed as target at
(quantitative                                                      50%             0%
                entry. 0% at restructuring
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/19/2010                                           12/31/2012      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target not met. Intervention was added at restructuring but did not take place.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Time taken to process Business permits
Value           Not listed as target at
(quantitative   entry. 40 days at                                  20              40
or Qualitative) restructuring
Date achieved 11/19/2010                                           12/31/2012      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target not met. Intervention was added at restructuring but did not take place.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Turnover in firms accessing BUGS vs control group
Value                                                                              No rigorous impact
(quantitative   0%                            20%                                  evaluation was
or Qualitative)                                                                    possible
Date achieved 05/24/2007                      12/31/2012                           12/31/2012
                No counterfactual was captured to measure the difference between firms
Comments
                accessing BUGS and control group. Impact assessment suggests positive trends
(incl. %
                but difficult to attribute to the project despite the team's best intentions to
achievement)
                measure impact.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2007          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       2.00
  2     06/19/2008          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       2.00
  3     12/29/2008          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       3.20
                             Moderately                    Moderately
  4     04/13/2009                                                                            4.48
                           Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  5     12/12/2009      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                6.53
  6     06/30/2010      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                9.53
  7     05/02/2011      Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      14.32
  8     12/28/2011          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      15.44

                                                  v
  9    06/29/2012         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory               15.44
 10    01/06/2013     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory        15.44

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The proposed restructuring
                                                     included a change to the project
                                                     development objective (PDO),
                                                     the dropping of two
 11/19/2010       Y       MS    MS           12.08
                                                     subcomponents due to a change
                                                     in government policy and the
                                                     reallocation of funds to support
                                                     two new activities.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                vi
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

Country and Macroeconomic Background

1.      At the time of BESTAP preparation, Malawi was among the ten poorest countries
in the world. GDP per capita was just US$167 in 2004, or approximately US$640 in
terms of purchasing power parity. The macroeconomic environment was experiencing an
improvement at the time of project preparation with inflation decreasing from an annual
average of 28 percent in the period between 1999 and 2002 to an average of 13 percent in
the period between 2003 and 2006 (EIU, 2013). Economic growth was starting to pick up
but with high volatility on a year-on-year basis. GDP grew on average 0.3 percent
annually during the period of 1999 to 2002 and improved to an annual average of 5.3
percent in the following four years. Still, growth in two of these four years was close to
zero. At the time of the project design, given population growth rates, it was estimated
that 5 to 6 percent real economic growth would be required to have any impact on
poverty.

Sector Background

2.       Against this backdrop, establishing a less volatile economic growth path was a
critical objective for Malawi’s government. The 2006 Investment Climate Assessment
(ICA) based on a survey of 300 firms mentions the story of a small private sector
struggling to compete in a difficult business environment. The issues raised in the note
included macro-instability, high cost of finance, limited access to electricity, low
availability of skilled workers, and crime and corruption.

3.      BESTAP’s PAD went further in this analysis, seeking to identify the sources of
Malawi’s low economic growth: limited investment and limited productivity growth. Net
fixed investment at just 8.1 percent of GDP was half the average for Sub-Saharan Africa,
while growth in labor productivity was virtually non-existent. Malawi’s trade structure
was also unbalanced with the country continuing to maintain a dependence on tobacco
exports1. The preparation of BESTAP was also informed by the results of the Doing
Business (DB) surveys. Overall, Malawi was ranked 110 out of 175 countries on the
2007 2 Doing Business indicators 3 . According to the PAD, the poor regulatory


1
  In 2006, the share of tobacco in exports was 56 percent. There were signs of an encouraging if fragile
trend towards export diversification, but tobacco continued to dominate. While tea and sugar were growing
in relative importance, this was largely at the expense of minor cash crops such as coffee, pulses and cotton.
2
  The DB business from 2007 is published in late 2006. The same is true for any other year (2008 published
in late 2007, etc).
3
  Although this rank does not seem particularly low in comparison to the GDP level of the country, the
government and the team preparing BESTAP thought that there were sub-aspects that were particularly
problematic for improving the climate of investment, including issues of “enforcing contracts? (ranked 134


                                                     1
environment for business activities was a critical obstacle to attracting the investment
needed to generate economic growth. Many of the critical laws that governed private
sector activity were out of date and in need of wholesale revision. An excessively
bureaucratic process of registering the ownership of land in Malawi slowed the process of
transferring private property. This was identified by the government as a significant
deterrent to new foreign investment where land was required, and to new credit for local
investors where collateral was needed. Estimates from the second Integrated Household
Survey (2004-2005) suggest that the informal sector represented 93 percent of the non-
farm small scale enterprises in the country. The DB indicators showed high costs and
processes of registering enterprises. The PAD argued that these costs of formalization
were limiting the growth of a vibrant SME sector.

4.     The economy was characterized by weak contract enforcement and limited access
to commercial justice. Criminal and political cases tended to absorb most of the capacity
and received higher priority in Malawi's judicial system, resulting in a large backlog of
commercial cases. The net effect was a general reluctance within the private sector to
extend credit or enter into contract arrangements to all but the most trusted of clients.

5.     Limited access to finance was also a leading constraint to private sector
investment, as per the ICA. Still, there were positive signs in Malawi’s macro-economy.
The Reserve Bank of Malawi’s base rate was reduced from as high as 45 percent in 2004
to 20 percent in November 2006. Although not tackled by the project, the PAD and other
preparatory documents suggest that other issues were also important at that time,
including: (a) inadequate infrastructure services and (b) low technical skills4.

Rationale for Bank assistance

6.      The Government of Malawi (GoM) had at the time finished a national
development strategy, the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS), which
recognized the private sector as the “engine of economic growth? and as an important
factor in reducing poverty. Malawi’s attainment of irrevocable debt relief under the
Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative contributed to the return to macro-
economic stability. Malawi’s macro management regained the confidence of the
international community, demonstrated by the resumption of budget support by bilateral
donors, an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), and through debt relief.

7.     A stable macroeconomic environment is a pre-requisite for sustainable private
sector development (PSD). Thus, Malawi’s gains in macro stability meant the




in DB2007) and “trading across borders? (ranked 153). Furthermore, there were sub-indices where a
number of countries were in the process of doing reforms, and hence the relative position would likely fall
if nothing was done in that area. That is the case the for instance for “starting a business?, where the
ranking was 89 in 2007, but was trending downwards (108 in 2008 and 122 in 2009).
4
  This would partly be tackled by the project through the matching grant scheme if there was demand for
these training activities.


                                                    2
government was increasingly looking to a “second generation? of reforms to stimulate
private sector investment. BESTAP was part of that process.

8.      The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Private Sector Development (MITPSD)
program aimed to address most of the ICA / DB constraints through a combination of
different projects and programs. This involved the support of local and international
partners including donors: EU and UNDP were doing separate work on trade policy, and
USAID on agribusiness and SMEs’ access to finance. The WB had previously supported
reform in the utilities sectors and in improving the business environment (PURP5). In that
vein, BESTAP was the continuation of the specialization of the WB on the investment
climate area.

9.      BESTAP was seen as an integral part of the Bank’s CAS, which was in line with
the MGDS. BESTAP was particularly related to the second strategic area of the CAS:
putting in place a foundation for longer term economic growth through improved
infrastructure and investment climate.

1.2        Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

10.        As stated in the PAD,
           “the objective of the Project is to support capacity development and investment
           climate reforms in order to accelerate economic growth. One of the medium term
           outcomes in Malawi’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is an improved climate
           for private business. This project is one instrument by which the Bank seeks to
           achieve this outcome. This will be done by reducing the regulatory burden and
           costs of doing business; improving service delivery to the private sector; access to
           finance for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs); and by strengthening support
           for technical and business management skills, thereby improving productivity and
           competitiveness at the firm level?.

11.    The project focused on investment climate reform and institutional capacity
building. The theory of change identified by the project team is summarized in Annex 11
(adapted from the PAD) – tackling business environment as a means of promoting
investment, which could lead to economic growth and job creation. The area within the
frame was the target of the project.

12.      The M&E Indicators were defined with the clear objective of seeking to improve
the Doing Business rating. Project Outcome Indicators at approval were (see Data Sheet
for targets):
    (i) Cost to formally start a business
    (ii) Turnover in firms accessing the matching grant scheme (BUGS) versus control
         group




5
    PURP – Privatization and Utilities Reform Project


                                                        3
13.   The two PDO indicators were complemented by the following seven Intermediate
Outcome Indicators:

Improving economic governance, property rights institutions and business facilitation
   (i) Legislative backlog of laws impacting cost of doing business
   (ii) Time to settle commercial disputes
   (iii)Time to formally start a business
   (iv) Time to register real property

Strengthening private sector development policy and services
    (v) Time to obtain business licenses at the Malawi Investment and Trade Centre
        (MITC), using the license for construction in the DB

Promoting access to finance and enhancing productivity of SMEs
   (vi) Number of SME start-ups accessing the established SME fund
   (vii) Turnover in firms accessing the matching grant scheme (BUGS) versus control
       group6

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

14.    The main Level 1 restructuring included a change to the PDO, the dropping of
two subcomponents and the reallocation of funds to support two new activities.
According to the restructuring paper, the PDO and the outcome indicators needed to be
modified to be consistent with the type and level of interventions supported by the project.
The formulation of the PDO as approved by the Board was seen at restructuring to be
high level and not directly attributable to the operation.

15.     The revised PDO was:
        “The objective of the Project is to improve the ease of doing business processes in
        Malawi in order to increase foreign and domestic private sector investment in the
        economy.?

16.     The core objective remains the same: as per the original CAS outcome in the
original PDO: improving climate for private business. The revised PDO has two main
changes: (i) drops the direct mention of capacity development although those activities
are not dropped from the project core focus; and (ii) rewords the change that may happen
with the ease of doing business: instead of economic growth, the revised PDO highlights
investment, and in particular brings-in the distinction between foreign and local
investment. The theory of change is graphed in Annex 11.

17.     Investment and growth are affected by a number of factors; thus, it is difficult to
attribute changes in these outcomes to the project. In practice, excluding growth and


6
 Notice that this last intermediate indicator was at the same time a PDO indicator. This was likely not on
purpose and this was corrected at restructuring, from which it was kept solely as an intermediate indicator.


                                                     4
investment from the picture, the objective of the project was to improve the business
environment, as measured by specific processes7 of facilitating investment. In that respect,
the two PDOs were not very different and sought to achieve the same end goal8. The
original PDO also mentions capacity building, but that goal was encompassed in the
overarching objectives at both design and restructuring phases.

18.     The PDO indicators were changed at restructuring: from the two initial PDO
indicators, the team kept one, the cost to formally start a business as a percent of income
per capita. The indicator on the turnover of the firms of the matching grant program that
appeared as both outcome and intermediate indicator at approval, was only kept as
intermediate at restructuring.

19.     The restructuring paper indicates that the government used it to amend some of
the M&E indicators and make them more clear, relevant, adequate, and measurable.
Intermediate Outcome Indicators included adding (i) “Percentage of electronic
transactions?; and (ii) “Average processing time for public services (in hours)?, and (iii)
“Costs to user for public services (in US$)? for each of the following sub-components:
business registration, land registration, and strengthening PSD policy and services. This
allowed the project team to have more immediate measures such as cost and proportion
of electronic transactions to work towards.

20.    The intermediate outcomes at restructuring were (those introduced at restructuring
are underlined):

Improving economic governance, property rights institutions and business facilitation
   (i) Legislative backlog of laws impacting cost of doing business
   (ii) Time to settle commercial disputes
   (iii)Business registration - % of electronic transactions
   (iv) Business registration – average processing time (hours)9
   (v) Business registration – costs to user10
   (vi) Land registry - % of electronic transactions
   (vii) Land registry – average processing time (hours)11


7
  In fact, the Amendment No 3 to the Financing Agreement, reflecting the restructuring changes, defines
the revised project description as simply “The objective of the Project is to improve the ease of business
processes in Malawi?.
8
  Doing Business processes, elements, aspects and reforms should be interpreted as similar for this purpose.
Although some of these may be seen as more outputs that outcomes, the ease of doing business indicators
are measured by indicators like time, cost, and other features of the processes, not by welfare measures.
Although different people will have different suggestions on the right word to use, we use here processes
because this was recommended by OPCS for the PDO of a project going to Board in FY13 (MSME
Development Project – P128443)
9
  This is the same as the “Time to formally start a business?. It was just reworded and converted in hours.
The DB reports in days.
10
   No target was set for all the costs to users of these services. Basically, it was set that the prices would
remain constant from restructuring to the end of the project. Nonetheless, ISRs kept mostly reporting on the
main indicators set at the time of approval, as if restructuring had not introduced these new ones.


                                                      5
      (viii) Land registry – costs to user

Strengthening private sector development policy and services
    (ix) Number of achieved reforms on ease of Doing Business
    (x) Immigration’s business permits - % of electronic transactions
    (xi) Immigration’s business permits – average processing time12 (hours)
    (xii) Immigration’s business permits – costs to user

Promoting access to finance and enhancing productivity of SMEs13
   (xiii) Turnover in firms accessing the matching grant scheme (BUGS) versus control
       group

1.4        Main Beneficiaries

21.     The PDO does not specify the main target group of the project, but it can be
inferred to be private investors – both local and international. This includes potential
investors that had not been operating in Malawi, but once conditions were to be improved
could be attracted to the country, as well as existing investors. Through facilitation of
investment and the access to finance component, the project could also benefit firms’
employees. In addition, given the considerable investment in capacity building, the main
beneficiaries also included the government agencies and their officials that are trained or
given better working conditions to do their job.

1.5        Original Components (as approved)

22.        The project supported four components:
      a)   Component One: Strengthening private property rights institutions and business
           facilitation;
      b)   Component Two: Strengthening private sector development support institutions
           and services;
      c)   Component Three: Promoting access to finance and productivity enhancement
      d)   Component Four: Capacity building and implementation support

Component One: Strengthening Private Property Rights Institutions and Business
Facilitation (Total: US$4.3 million)
23.     This component supported activities that aimed to improve the regulatory
environment in which the private sector operates, to strengthen the institutions that


11
   This is the same as the previous “Time to register real property?. It was just reworded and converted in
hours. The DB reports in days.
12
   This is not a complete new M&E indicator. At approval, the licenses being tracked were the
(construction) permits monitored in the DB. This was an objective for the subcomponent 2.1 on MITC. At
restructuring, it was changed to permits provided by the Department of Immigration to international
investors for staying in Malawi – Business Residence Permits (BRP) and Temporary Employment Permit
(TEP) – but time taking to provide these licenses was also monitored.
13
   At restructuring, the indicator “Number of SME start-ups accessing the established SME fund? was
dropped following the removal of the respective sub-component.


                                                    6
protect private property rights, and to allow speedy and low cost business facilitation. It
included three sub-components: (i) streamlining the business regulatory environment,
including addressing the large legislative backlog of economic laws and introducing key
new legislation; (ii) providing support for strengthening and expanding the capacity of
the newly established Commercial Division of the High Court to relieve the large backlog
of commercial cases in Malawi’s court system and to strengthen contract enforcement;
(iii) enabling the business and land registries to improve their effectiveness in registering
businesses and facilitating the registration and securitization of land-based assets.

Component Two: Strengthening Private Sector Development Support Institutions and
Services (Total: US$4.6. million)
24.     This component focused on building capacity of institutions that provide services
to the private sector in order to improve the quality and volume of services delivered, and
to strengthen institutions that provide policy direction on PSD. The proposed activities
included (i) supporting the institutional capacity of the newly established Malawi
Investment and Trade Centre, including setting up the legal and regulatory framework for
a one-stop business licensing, investment and exporting promotion centre; (ii)
establishing an institutional framework for Public Private Partnerships; (iii) building
capacity in the Department of Private Sector Development of the MITPSD, including
hiring of a small team dedicated to working on DB reforms; (iv) establishment of a
public-private dialogue (PPD) secretariat in the Malawi Confederation of Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (MCCCI) by funding two full time positions.

Component Three: Promoting Access to Finance and Productivity Enhancement (Total:
US$4.6 million)
25.    The objective of this component was to support the growth and development of
micro and small enterprises, into a “missing middle?, given few enterprises were located
in between the many micro and informal sector businesses, and the larger multinationals
and conglomerates. This component included (i) the establishment of a sustainable SME
Investment Fund to increase access to finance for small-scale enterprises; (ii) the
introduction of a matching grant scheme aimed at supporting business development
services; and (iii) merger of two state-owned banks - the Malawi Rural Finance Company
(MRFC) and the Malawi Savings Bank (MSB) to improve the service delivery of rural
finance.

Component Four: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (Total: US$2.9
million)
26.    This component aimed at supporting the establishment of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). This included supporting the staffing of the PIU and
provision of operational costs and goods necessary for project implementation support.
The PIU for the Privatization Commission (PC), which had been managing the WB-
funded Privatization and Utility Reform Project (PURP), were assuming the PIU
functions while the MITPSD built its capacity. The objective was to review MITPSD’s
capacity after two years of implementation before deciding whether the project
management functions could be mainstreamed into the MITPSD.




                                             7
1.6     Revised Components

27.     The four headline components remained unchanged throughout the duration of the
project. There was one Level 1 restructuring process, where two subcomponents under
Component 3 were discontinued, namely, the (i) planned establishment of a sustainable
SME Investment Fund and (ii) the merger of Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC)
with the Malawi Savings Bank (MSB).

28.      In their place, the project reallocated the funds from the discontinued sub-
components to two new activities: (i) upgrading the Department of Immigration’s
capacity to deal with Business Residence Permits (BRP) and Temporary Employment
Permits (TEP); and (ii) review and update of the Companies Act. The restructuring of the
components was the result of changes in government policy. Both of the new activities
(Immigration and Companies Act) were classified in the restructuring paper and in the
Amendment to the Financing Agreement14 under Component 115, but under the M&E
Framework of the restructuring paper the interventions related to the Immigration
Department appear under Component 216. The component where the activities belong is
important because the project received co-financing from the European Commission (EC),
and this was initially thought to cover all components (as per the PAD), but was later –
before the Level 1 restructuring17 - found out to be covering only Component 1. Although
these new interventions were supposed to have been financed by the two dropped
activities in Component 3 (hence through IDA funds), the over-commitment of other
activities led to a practical problem. When the Immigration Department submitted Terms
of Reference for its activities, there were insufficient IDA funds available. Although the
improving of processes to obtain BRPs and TEPs was part of restructuring in late 2010, it
was never implemented before the end of the project in 2012.

1.7     Other significant changes

29.    Given the level 1 restructuring, it was agreed with the government to proactively
address additional shortcomings. This led to: (i) deleting reference of the merger between
the Malawi Investment Promotion Agency and the Malawi Export Promotion Council;
(ii) amending M&E results; and (iii) allocating the unallocated funds in the project
(US$2,005,500). These contingency funds set aside at approval were allocated for
modernization/automation of business and land registries; staff costs in the PIU,
including extending contracts beyond the initial two years of the project for the full
operation; and operating expenses regarding office space.

30.   In addition to the level 1 restructuring, there were two level 2 restructuring in
2011 and 2012 respectively. The first of these aimed to reallocate proceeds among the


14
   April 28, 2011. The work with the Immigration Department appears jointly with improving processes for
Business and Land Registration, which was part of Component 1.
15
   Page 21 and pages 24/25 of the Restructuring Paper (September, 2010).
16
   Pages 17 and 18 of the Restructuring Paper (September, 2010).
17
   Page 10 of the Restructuring Paper (September, 2010). Also, 2008’s Administration Agreement.


                                                   8
relevant categories (goods, works, services, operating costs) following overruns in
allocated disbursements in part due to the misunderstanding of where the EC funds could
be used for. The second Level 2 restructuring in 2012 aimed at extending the closing date
of the EC-funded Trust Fund (TF) from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012, as well as
the Administration Agreement of the TF from June 30, 2012 to December 31, 2012. The
reason for this extension was to allow for full disbursement of the contracts signed until
December 31, 2011 that were still outstanding, as well as align project’s dates with the
EC’s grace-period for disbursement18.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis at design and government’s commitment

31.     There is strong evidence in the project documents at design stage to demonstrate
that it was informed by detailed background analysis. The project was prepared drawing
upon the analytical work carried out by the World Bank Group and the GoM, including
the 2004 DTIS, the 2006 ICA, the annual Doing Business surveys, the 2006 Malawi
Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE), the 2006 Governance and Anticorruption Report
(GAC), and the Portfolio Improvement Plan (PIP) prepared by the Country Management
Unit jointly with the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The PAD also mentions lessons
incorporated from the experiences of other donor projects supporting the sector and from
the experiences of MCCCI and National Action Group (NAG) in facilitating public-
private dialogue in Malawi.

32.     The lessons incorporated at project design included seeking to use a balanced
implementation arrangement. That meant establishing a PIU instead of implementing
directly through the Ministry. This aimed to achieve results and effective coordination
while building project management capacity in the Ministry19.

33.     At project design, the team discussed different alternative interventions outside
the business environment topic. First, the team considered focusing the project on
specific sectors such as agri-business, tourism or manufacturing, but this approach was
rejected because of the apparent limited success of this type of projects in Malawi and
other countries. Focusing on one area of intervention within business environment, and


18
   The EC procedures allow for disbursement 6-month after the Completion date, while the Bank’s
procedures have a grace period of 4 months.
19
   The Bank and the MITPSD discussed at times during the project transferring PIU functions to the
Ministry. The government stated they did not have the capacity to take functions of the PIU as officials
who were earmarked and trained to take on project functions had been transferred to other Departments.
Since the end of BESTAP, the MITPSD has started a project funded by the Africa Development Bank
(AfDB) and is coordinating its implementation fully internally, benefitting from training provided through
BESTAP. Team members of the MITPSD have informally referred to the difficulties in managing the new
AfDB project at the same time as managing other activities of the respective Department. This speaks to
the concern the Bank and the government had during BESTAP’s implementation.


                                                    9
making interventions more sequential, was also considered. However, it was decided that
a combined set of interventions within business environment would generate greater
impact. Given the limited knowledge about what would work best and the limited scope
for very intensive reforms, this approach was likely appropriate.

34.     The rationale for Bank’s intervention was its comparative advantage in PSD
versus other donors, especially in business environment issues. This was widely
recognized by both the government and other donors. With an in-country FPD team with
a strong technical and diagnostic background, the World Bank Group was seen as the
natural partner for this work. At the time, the IFC was not very active in Malawi and its
expertise was only brought-in later, facilitated by Bank engagement through BESTAP.
The EC agreed at design to co-finance BESTAP with over 20 percent co-financing.

Assessment of the project design

35. The PDO set at design of supporting capacity development and investment climate
reforms was aligned with the assessment made by the team of the needs of the country,
reflected in the CAS medium-term outcomes (“improved climate for private business?).
However, it was not the best approach to have explicitly linked it to “accelerate economic
growth?, even if only mentioned as a second stage20, because of an issue of attribution.
The two can go together with new investment generated by the reforms, but the spirit of
the project’s interventions – and as measured by the M&E indicators21 – was to facilitate
processes for new investors, not claim that economic growth in Malawi would be
attributed to the project.

36.     The PDO could have been set initially as:

        “The PDO is to improve Malawi’s investment climate, as measured by selected
        processes, and support the development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
        (MSMEs).

        For the purposes of this project, investment climate reform comprises inter alia
        dealing with commercial disputes, improving the legislative framework,
        facilitating PPPs and PPD, and improving processes of firm registration, land
        registration, and business permits.?

37.    A second area of discussion is the importance of having focused on business
environment reforms instead of other areas of PSD. Given the private sector in Malawi
was constrained by a large number of factors identified in preparation documents (access
to finance, electricity and other infrastructure, skills development, investment climate,


20
   The PDO objectives of the project are “improving the capacity development and investment climate
reforms?. The PDO only mentions “accelerating economic growth? when saying that these objectives are
“in order to? achieve that overarching goal.
21
   The team monitored changes in the performance of businesses as part of its PDO indicators, but only for
those that were supported directly by the project through the matching grant scheme.


                                                   10
lack of innovation, etc) it is debatable whether it was appropriate to concentrate the
project22 on improving the business environment23, especially because it was not known
whether that was the most binding constraint. At this stage, it is difficult to tell whether or
not it was the right approach, but, as discussed above, the project team considered
seriously other alternatives and concluded that it would be more productive – mostly due
to the high risks of the alternative interventions - to focus on business environment. One
needs to acknowledge the team’s consistency in focusing on one area of comparative
advantage and seeking to contribute to solve that problem24.

38.     Within the investment climate area of work, the project aimed to improve
processes related to property rights but did not tackle the bigger and more critical issue
(naturally more difficult): the land titling and the provision of property rights25. However,
the decision to take a broad approach and address sub-areas of investment climate where
the Bank could be effective and where results could be achieved in a relatively short
period of time was sensible.

39.    Component 2 could have been integrated in Component 1. By integrating these
capacity building programs under the initiatives of Component 1, the project design
would have been simpler allowing for easier coordination. With the benefit of hindsight,
this would have avoided as well problems with co-financing restrictions. The co-
financing from the EC was later26 restricted to Component 1 due to the thematic focus of
the source of funds (governance), which did not allow some of the counterparts (in
Component 2) to benefit from those funds.

40.      This separation of the first two Components involuntary masked another
important issue at project design: the project combined a large number of counterparts,
located in the two major cities, Lilongwe and Blantyre. The list of organizations involved
included:
    (i) Ministry of Industry, Trade and Private Sector Development (Lilongwe)
    (ii) Ministry of Justice (Lilongwe)
    (iii) Commercial Division of the High Court (Blantyre / Lilongwe)
    (iv) Department of Registrar’s General (Blantyre)
    (v) Department of Lands - Registry (Lilongwe)
    (vi) Malawi Investment and Trade Centre (Lilongwe)
    (vii) Ministry of Finance, PPPs (Blantyre / Lilongwe)


22
   This was the only FPD project in Malawi.
23
   The project actually incorporated a component on direct support to SME development, but only one of
the three sub-components was implemented. The strategy was clearly to target investment climate reforms.
24
   In many countries in Africa, this type of work is led by the IFC Advisory Services. It is not clear beyond
lack of a full-time person in Malawi why the IFC was not working in this country as much as in others in
Africa. The BESTAP facilitated during implementation phase IFC’s involvement in the project.
25
   Other projects were operating in the lands space – IRLAD – but mostly focused on improving farmers’
productivity.
26
   In essence, it was always restricted to Component 1 but the team at design thought it would be available
for all components, as per the PAD.


                                                    11
     (viii) Malawian Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Blantyre)
     (ix) Matching grant program, BUGS (Blantyre27)
     (x) Reserve Bank of Malawi28 (Lilongwe)

41.     Coordination of a high number of organizations with uneven levels of capacity
was a risk that was mitigated well by the PIU’s through effective management.

42.     Differences in capacity amongst beneficiary agencies were important in terms of
knowledge of how to benefit from the project and work under WB procedures29. This
became an issue as the use of the funds became to some extent a horse race within
components30. Backed by the Bank’s institutional support31 - not linked per se to the team
- of keeping the focus on disbursement 32 , organizations sought to implement their
activities within a short period of time. When contracts were more expensive than
budgeted in the procurement plan, it became difficult to guarantee that the missing
activities would have sufficient funds to complete the work. This led to shortage of funds
for the lagging implementers in the process.

43.      The location of beneficiaries in two cities is related to a divide of the Malawian
government between Lilongwe and Blantyre rather than to project design. With more
than one counterpart, there would always be a high probability of working in the two
cities, but the problem was that the high number of involved organizations exacerbated
the number of trips between the two cities and to other neutral locations, which led to
high costs of operations, coordination, and training.

Assessment of risks
44.    The main risks identified at design included (i) political risk 33 , (ii)
macroeconomic risk, (iii) staff turnover in government, and (iv) governance / financial
management risk. These risks were well considered at design and mitigation measures
were included. The project did not consider at design the risk of the high cost of
coordinating a large number of agencies.




27
   At the middle of the project, it opened a branch in Lilongwe, but its headquarters were in Blantyre.
28
   This was identified at design to be focal point for the merger between MSB and MRFC, but in practice
this work was concentrated at the Ministry of Finance.
29
    The Steering Committee (where organizations were members) helped through time to bring
implementers up to speed on Bank rules and procedures.
30
   The ultimate example of this was a subcomponent added at restructuring and never completed because of
lack of funds when it wanted to execute its activities (see Annex 1).
31
   See for instance dashboard reports from Regional offices where targets of disbursement per year are set
at the individual project level.
32
   This is based on an assumption that every activity within project design is (i) effective, limiting scope for
changes along the way, and (ii) is more effective if spent in a concentrated period of time.
33
   The political support to donor activities in general seemed to have deteriorated somehow in the last two
years of President Mutharika’s tenure (2010-2012). After his death, the new President brought-in a
different style within the same political orientation of focusing on business environment reforms.


                                                      12
45.     Given a number of interventions included capacity building initiatives of
government officials, including Master’s programs and long placements to counterpart
departments in other countries, the risk of training someone and losing her/him after was
high. This risk was fully considered at design, but the only mitigation measure of
involving the government during project design was a weak one. This risk of staff
turnover was particularly high for specific posts such as judicial officers in the High
Court. This risk materialized in practice during the project with the loss of trained
personnel to other ranks of the justice34. Additionally, members of the PIU including
fiduciary staff had to be replaced during implementation because they took other
employment opportunities35.

2.2      Implementation

46.     Implementation was initially constrained by two factors: (i) unfamiliarity with
Bank procedures by some of the involved organizations because it was the first time they
were implementing a Bank project, and (ii) resistance to change in specific departments.
The quality of the initial ToRs was often weak, processes were not fully understood, there
was mistrust of the program and its objectives, mid-level officials within agencies were
learning about the implications for them of the change - the speed of implementation of
the different sub-components varied. This and changes in the Bank’s TTL delayed
implementation for the initial phase of the project, but there was a catch-up a couple of
years into the project.

47.     The largest issue during project implementation was the delay in securing the co-
financing from the EC, which only became available in mid-2011, as well as the
misunderstanding on how those funds could be used. The co-financing was led by the
Access to Governance and Justice Unit of the EC. At design, the Bank team believed and
made explicit in the PAD that the EC funds (equivalent to US$3.7 million) would cover
all components and would be proportionally allocated between activities. However, the
Administration Agreement signed between the Bank and the EU in 2008 showed that the
EC funds would only be able to support Component 1, because the funds were only
allowed to focus on access to justice. The grant agreement between the Bank and
government, which was delayed 36 , and only countersigned in 2011, confirmed that
allocation, which had been also reflected in the 2010 restructuring paper. This limit on
activities that could be supported by the EC TF is argued by the government and the
Bank team to have created an implementation problem because of the funds already



34
   These officials were seen to have been recruited by other offices specifically because they received this
training supported by BESTAP. But, one could argue that as long as these officials remain in the judiciary,
including courts at the regional level, the capacity building exercise is benefiting the country. Although that
is a fair consideration, the reality is that they were trained to improve the systems in specific departments.
Once the trained official is taken away, the institutions often do not keep that knowledge.
35
   The initial PIU Procurement Specialist joined the Bank, the PIU Financial Management Specialist joined
the AfDB.
36
   This delay resulted from the understanding that the IDA funds could be used first and then followed by
the EC funds, as well as bureaucracy issues in getting the documents ready and signed by the recipient.


                                                     13
committed to other components thinking the combined envelope would be larger. But if
this restriction was known since 2008, this over-commitment in certain subcomponents
should not have happened, suggesting that there was a planning problem of not having
incorporated that information in the revisions of the procurement plan.

48.     The project’s implementation and supervision followed normal standards of Bank
procedures. This included a mid-term review in October 2010, which led to the
restructuring of the project in November 2010 following changes in government policy.
At restructuring, the team believed the revised project would strengthen the legal and
regulatory environment for promoting and supporting foreign and domestic investment in
the country, as well as build capacity within government agencies and institutions. The
restructured components were seen to better support the successful achievement of the
(revised) PDO. Indeed, the restructuring focused on cutting resources from activities that
had no progress and add to others with more potential. In that sense, it increased the
likelihood of achieving the PDO.

49.     Progress in implementation was affected during the period 2010-12 by the
deteriorating political and macroeconomic conditions in the country, especially the
shortage of fuel and foreign currency, and the rising inflation. Aid to Malawi in general
was reduced due to political problems 37 , which affected the implementation of
complementary interventions. The continuous social unrest increased the risk of the
reforms being sufficient to generate new investment.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

50.    The initial PDO was to support capacity development and investment climate
reforms in order to accelerate economic growth. The M&E framework rightly did not
focus on the broad last part of this objective but rather just on more specific investment
climate indicators.

51.     The PDO indicator 38 throughout the project was the cost to formally start a
business as a % of income per capita. This indicator was designed to be easy to monitor
under the Doing Business Survey, and could be partially attributed to the project reforms.
However, the choice of this indicator was too narrow, reflecting only one element of
reform39, while the project sought to address a number of issues. In addition, the problem
with this indicator is that the cost itself is only marginally correlated with the size of the
economy; hence a change in the GDP could affect the ratio during the time of the project



37
   http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-15206437
38
   At design, there was another indicator – turnover of firms supported by the matching grant program
versus a control group – that was both a PDO and an Intermediate indicator. In ISRs, it was just reported as
an intermediate indicator. In the restructuring paper, it became only an intermediate indicator.
39
   At most, this indicator covers some 15 percent to 20 percent of the non-PIU activities proposed at design,
if one considers the partial involvements of Components 1.1, 1.3, 2.1, and 2.3 towards achieving this
outcome.


                                                    14
even without any reform. This indicator was hence wrongly designed as the PDO
indicator and should have been replaced during the life of the project.

52.     The investment climate intermediate indicators set at design were thought to be
easily trackable: legislative backlog, time to settle commercial disputes, time to register a
business, time to register property, time to obtain (export) licenses. Most of these were
drawn from the yearly published DB reports. Notably absent was an intermediate
indicator on the capacity building front, which was an aspect referenced in the PDO, and
seen as important in generating additional investment climate reforms. Intermediate
indicators on capacity building could have included the number of officials trained in the
departments, specific intensities of capacity building efforts, and mechanisms of
sustaining institutional knowledge. For a couple of cases of the intermediate indicators,
the design did not fully incorporate the risk of attribution to the project. This was
especially the case for the time to settle a commercial dispute. The team tracked the DB
reports but the reforms in establishing the High Court had no direct influence on the
results of that indicator, which measures changes in the Magistrate’s Court. The
intervention was concentrated on the new Commercial Division of the High Court. Hence,
although creating and supporting the High Court helped achieve the de facto objective of
the project, it is not reflected in the DB ranking.

53.     When using a proxy PDO – as described in section 2.1 - and when the PDO
indicators are incorrectly designed, the ICR guidelines recommend using proxy outcome
indicators to better evaluate progress towards achieving the PDO. Both for design and
restructuring, the following would have been better PDO indicators to measure the
impacts of the project:

             1. Time to settle commercial disputes above MWK 1 million
             2. Time to formally start a business40
             3. Time to register real property
             4. Number of enacted laws up to international standards originally drafted by
                the capacity provided in Component 2 (MITPSD, PPP, PPD)
             5. Turnover in firms accessing the matching grant scheme (BUGS) versus
                control group

54.     These indicators were actually mostly listed as intermediate indicators in the
project (some not exactly as stated here), but could have been identified as the objective
indicators of BESTAP.

55.     The intermediate outputs could have included the computerization of systems, the
achievements in terms of capacity building initiatives, the size of the teams seconded in
the Ministries to help coordinate drafting of law reforms, the number of meetings
between public and private sector, and the number of firms with access to finance
solutions.


40
  Cost to start a business in real terms could also be used, but suggesting time to be consistent with the
time to register property.


                                                     15
56.      The M&E implementation was supervised by a Specialist in the PIU. As
discussed, this Specialist had to engage with each agency to obtain updated information
on the progress of the subcomponent. The quality of the M&E reporting was high and
facilitated supervision (as demonstrated in the Implementation Status Reports - ISRs).

57.     No impact evaluation was incorporated at design of the project, though it was
very rare at the time for a FPD project in Africa to have one. However, in early 2010, the
BESTAP PIU, other members of the government, and the TTL participated in the DIME-
FPD Impact Evaluation workshop in Dakar. In this seminar with participation of various
project teams and World Bank researchers, the Malawi team learned about methodologies
of conducting rigorous impact evaluations and worked with a researcher to design an
impact evaluation for BESTAP. It was first considered to conduct an impact evaluation of
the matching grant program in Component 3, which was critical in terms of SME
development activities, seemed amenable for impact evaluation work, and there was
significant debate on whether it was working or not. After a follow-up mission to Malawi,
the research and government team realized that the adequate conditions did not exist to
implement the impact evaluation of the matching grant program. The main reasons
behind the difficulty in implementing this study are summarized in Annex 3, which
explains that the problems were also common to other countries where similar studies
were attempted. Given the problems in implementing this evaluation, the project team
hired a consulting firm to conduct a process assessment of BUGS as well as a feedback
survey on participants. The results are discussed in section 3.3 and more detailed in
Annex 5.

58.    In terms of impact evaluation, it was decided with the government in mid-2010 to
focus on an impact evaluation of the business registration reforms, given that under
BESTAP the government was streamlining its registration process. The impact evaluation
was designed to assess the effects of firms becoming formal in terms of access to
financial services, markets, and performance41.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards
59.     The project was classified as a Category C, and no safeguard policies were
triggered.

Financial Management
60.     The PIU kept good records of financial management. The project complied with
the financial covenants stated in the financing agreement. The audits were made on time
and followed Bank rules. All audits were unqualified42. Budgeting and procurement plans
were of good quality and prepared in a timely fashion. The initial FM team had worked in


41
    Expected benefits of a business registration are access to formal banking services, credit, government
procurement and matching grants, and less harassment from government officials.
42
   Source: FM Specialist, World Bank.


                                                   16
the previous FPD project – PURP – and knew the Bank procedures. However, the FM
Specialist left in the middle of the project to work for AfDB, but the systems were kept in
place. The overall performance of the financial management function is rated
Satisfactory.

Procurement
61.    The procurement function was overseen by a consultant at the PIU, which had
also been working with PURP. The first procurement specialist left in 2010 to work for
the World Bank local office. During a period of over six months the Bank’s new
procurement specialist (previously from BESTAP’s PIU) sent BESTAP requests for
review to a colleague in the Zambia office43. The PIU ensured implementing agencies
followed the agreed procurement guidelines and procedures. The overall performance of
procurement is rated Satisfactory.

2.5         Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

62.     Following the closure of the project, the government and other partners have
continued to operate the main institutions created or developed under the auspices of
BESTAP. Specifically, the Commercial Division of the High-Court is financed out of the
state budget and carries the work that was successfully developed under BESTAP. The
work on drafting laws to improve the doing business indicators has continued post-
completion with a person attached to the MITPSD. The PPD Secretariat, which sits in the
MCCCI, reduced the number of staff from two to one person after BESTAP’s closure but
has continued with Chamber’s funds to promote dialogue between the government and
the private enterprises (a high-level meeting took place in February 2013). The ICT
systems that have been introduced continue to be used by the respective Departments.

63.     Furthermore, the Bank and other donors have continued to work on follow-up
activities within the business environment space. In 2011, the Bank approved the
Financial Strengthening Technical Assistance Project (FSTAP), which tackles a
complementary area of work – the financial sector – and can through regulatory reforms
support the business climate.

64.     Since 2011, the GoM expressed to the donor community interest in continuing to
implement investment climate reforms post completion of BESTAP. After subsequent
discussions led by the Bank with other development partners in the context of leveraging
resources, the UK’s Department for International Development (Dfid) agreed to respond
to the request received from the GoM to provide assistance. The Bank has been providing
technical support in the preparation of this project, which aims to improve the business
enabling environment in Malawi. The design focuses on the continuation of the work in
BESTAP.




43
     This to avoid any potential conflict of interest.


                                                         17
65.     Additionally, following the closure of BESTAP, the new government has
finalized and approved a set of additional laws and regulations that had been prepared
under the auspices of the project.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating of Relevance - Original: Substantial
Rating of Relevance - Revised: High

66.    Given the Level 1 restructuring in 2010, we evaluate the relevance of Objectives,
Design and Implementation splitting between the initial and the restructured project. The
relevance rating is Substantial for the project at approval and High for the revised project.

67.     The Substantial rating for relevance at approval reflects the High rating for
relevance of objectives and Substantial rating for relevance of design and relevance of
implementation. The High rating for relevance post-restructuring reflects the High rating
for relevance of objectives and relevance of design and Substantial rating for relevance of
implementation.

Relevance of Original Objectives: High
Relevance of Revised Objectives: High

68.     As discussed above, the PDO of supporting capacity development and investment
climate reforms in order to accelerate economic growth has some elements that are
difficult to attribute to the project. The same shortcoming applies to the revised PDO,
which aims to improve the ease of doing business processes in order to increase foreign
and domestic private sector investment in the economy44. But, as explained in the Bank’s
OPCS ICR guidelines45, “whenever the PDOs stated in project documents are so broad
and/or vaguely worded as to preclude any meaningful evaluation, intended project
objectives are inferred by the evaluator from key associated outcome targets (and/or
project design features as relevant)?. Based on the discussion in Section 2.1, a more
appropriate PDO to both the objectives at design and at restructuring would be:

         “The PDO is to improve Malawi’s investment climate, as measured by selected
         processes, and support the development of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
         (MSMEs).

         For the purposes of this project, investment climate reform comprises inter alia
         dealing with commercial disputes, improving the legislative framework,



44
   A number of factors impact investment and only at the margin can the project contribute to those. In this
case the revised Financing Agreement (2011) dropped the mention to investment focusing solely on
business processes.
45
   Appendix B of the ICR Guidelines.


                                                    18
        facilitating PPPs and PPD, and improving processes of firm registration, land
        registration, and business permits.?

69.     Against this backdrop, the objectives of the project remain relevant to Malawi
today 46 because they are aligned with the country’s current development priorities as
reflected in the recently approved CAS (FY13-FY16), which in turn is aligned with the
Second Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS II) adopted in April 2012 and
the subsequent Economic Recovery Plan launched in October 2012. It is also aligned
with the National Export Promotion Strategy (NES). The CAS prioritizes Bank’s support
around three themes: (1) Promoting Sustainable, Diversified and Inclusive Growth; (2)
Enhancing Human Capital and Reducing Vulnerabilities; and (3) Mainstreaming
Governance for Enhanced Development Effectiveness. The three priority themes of the
CAS have been structured around six results areas, including Result Area 2: A business
environment that promotes competitiveness and enhances productivity.

70.     Furthermore, the investment climate reforms are at the forefront of the dialogue
with the government. This has been further enhanced since the new government - which
has brought a new reformist agenda - has been in power. As discussed above, the Bank
has worked with the government and Dfid in preparing a new program of activities on
business environment. The government organized a High Level Forum on Doing
Business Reforms47 in March 2013. This Forum had the objective of assessing progress
on implementing DB reforms in Malawi, identifying priority measures to be implemented
by responsible ministries/agencies, identifying challenges in formulation of reform
proposals, putting in place mechanisms for adequate support at political and technical
level, and identifying ways of enhancing support from development partners.

71.     MSME development – an element in the proxy PDO for this ICR - remains very
relevant in the context of the development priorities for the government and the
international community. Enhancing productivity is in one of the Results Areas of the
new CAS. The AfDB approved in 2012 a US$18 million project with the MITPSD in
order to improve the competitiveness of the private sector. This project complements the
work on investment climate by directly targeting MSME development initiatives. The
AfDB project also continues the firm-level work (through a different approach) started
under the matching grant program of BESTAP. More details about this project are listed
in Annex 10.

72.     For these reasons, there are strong indications to suggest the high relevance of the
project’s objectives, both originally and post-restructuring.




46
   Furthermore, as discussed above, the project objectives were also aligned with the CAS and government
strategy (MGDS) relevant in 2007 and guiding the strategy at the time of the restructuring.
47
   More than 150 senior public and private sector CEOs and their representatives, as well as key members
of the donor community attended the meeting. The meeting was chaired by the Minister of Commerce and
Industry of Malawi.


                                                  19
Relevance of Original Design: Substantial
Relevance of Revised Design: High

73.     The original design of the investment climate reforms are aligned with the project
objectives and through that aligned with the most recent CAS, MGDS, etc. The post-
restructuring design in terms of business environment is also very aligned with the
objectives of the project. The two new activities added at restructuring – the upgrading of
the capacity to deal with BRPs and TEPs; and review and update of the Companies Act –
are relevant components of the investment climate reform agenda.

74.     Before and after restructuring, the interventions were concentrated on core
components of improving the investment climate, as measured by the outcomes of
interest of the project. For example, one of the objectives was to reduce the time to start a
business. This aspect involves different processes in different agencies as outlined in
Annex 11. The desired change may not occur if the project is not working directly or
indirectly with the agencies that are able to provide the largest change in the outcome of
interest48 (those associated with the largest columns in Figure 12 of Annex 11). In this
case, BESTAP in practice worked on 5 of these 10 steps (see Annex 11).

75.     The design of the components is also relevant in the context of the specific
priorities of the government today. The planned Dfid/GoM project that the Bank is
helping design in 2013 largely focuses on the continuation of BESTAP’s work: (a)
improving ease of starting a business; (b) improving ease of dealing with construction
permits; (c) improving ease of trading across borders; (d) improving ease of enforcing
contracts; and (e) improving ease of resolving insolvency.

76.     The design of Component 3 was originally weak. At design stage, there were
already discussions about the lack of government’s commitment towards merging the
MRFC and the MSB49. Also, the initial project design did not allocate enough resources
to establish the SME Investment Fund, suggesting ownership of this subcomponent was
low. None of these activities took place. While for the banks, the government is now
considering internal reforms in these institutions – continuing the spirit of change of the
project – for the SME Investment Fund, the government has changed its priority, looking
towards creating a Development Bank instead.

77.     Given the soundness of design of Components 1 and 2 and the weakness in initial
design of Component 3, the rating of relevance of original design is Substantial. As the
activities from Component 3 were changed to interventions relevant to the PDO and still
relevant today, the rating of relevance of design post-restructuring is High.


48
   In addition to the Department of Registrar’s General (DRG), it is necessary to tackle issues related to the
time taking to start a business in City Assembly licenses and the Ministry of Labor. The project worked on
legislative reforms for the City Assemblies. The new business license is waiting for Parliament approval
and hence its effects are not yet reflected in the DB rankings.
49
   According to interviews with people involved in the process, this was mostly an idea driven by the then
Minister of Finance rather than by the project team or the technical teams in the Ministry.


                                                     20
Relevance of Implementation against original PDO: Substantial
Relevance of Implementation against revised PDO: Substantial

78.    Implementation of BESTAP was broadly consistent with the activities designed at
approval, as well as with those approved at restructuring. The operation remained
important throughout implementation to the country and Bank development objectives,
which have not materially changed throughout this process. The activities were
implemented responding to the proxy PDO, which is aligned with the current priorities,
suggesting relevance of Implementation.

79.    Policy changes were incorporated through a restructuring of the project in
November 2010 that dropped non-performing subcomponents and added new activities
with apparent potential. This restructuring could have happened earlier, because as early
as January 2009 the government informed the Bank of the ongoing policy changes50.
Given the project was downgraded at that time to Moderately Unsatisfactory due to these
underperforming components, one could have expected a quicker turnaround, which did
not happen51.

80.     Furthermore, certain issues during implementation led to redirecting of funds
within the project from the design stage to its implementation. These included among
others (i) the delay in securing the co-financing from the EC, as well as the
misunderstanding on how these funds could be used; (ii) the acceleration of early
disbursement by some of the involved organizations knowing that otherwise some other
subcomponents could potentially be competing for same funds52; (iii) the need to keep
the PIU throughout the duration of the project, when it was only initially thought that two
years would be sufficient. These issues did not materially change the relevance of the
activities implemented; which were kept aligned with the PDO. It meant though that
some other activities – including a core activity with the Department of Immigration
added at restructuring - were not implemented, losing some relevance.

81.     For these reasons, the relevance of implementation remained Substantial both
against the original PDO and the revised one.




50
   Delays in getting a formal request from the government help explain the delay of the process.
51
   One potential explanation for this delay is that the low rating only lasted for 6 months and hence the
pressure to change was not as intense as it could have been.
52
   This is based on the rate of disbursement of funds and anecdotal evidence resulting from interviews with
involved organizations.


                                                    21
3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating of Efficacy - Original: Substantial
Rating of Efficacy - Revised: Substantial

82.    The achievement of the PDO is rated Substantial against both the original PDO
and the revised PDO. The components’ achievements are discussed at length in Annex 2.

83.     The PDO indicator before and after restructuring - Cost to formally start a
business as a % of GNI per capita – was largely achieved (see Figure 1).

          Figure 1: Cost to formally start a business as a % of GNI per capita
                           (comparison with BESTAP target)
               245
                       215.7
               210                188.7

               175

               140                           125.9
                                                           108     108.4
               105                                                            90.9
                                                                                         83.7

         Target 70

                35

                 0
                      DB2007     DB2008     DB2009        DB2010   DB2011   DB2012     DB2013
                          Source: Adapted from DB reports. BESTAP target is for DB2012.

84.    However, as discussed in section 2.3 above, this indicator was incorrectly
designed – and incorrectly kept as the single PDO indicator throughout the project -
because it can only be partly attributed to the project and only reflects one section53 of the
reforms being supported.

85.     Hence, it is appropriate to introduce proxy PDO indicators: (i) time to settle
commercial disputes above MWK 1 million; (ii) time to formally start a business; (iii)
time to register real property; (iv) number of enacted laws up to international standards
originally drafted by the capacity provided in Component 2 (MITPSD, PPP, PPD); and
(v) turnover in firms accessing the matching grant scheme (BUGS) versus control group.
All these five indicators are core in achieving the proxy PDO of improved investment




53
  At most, some 15 percent to 20 percent of the non-PIU activities proposed at design, if one considers the
partial involvements of Components 1.1, 1.3, 2.1, and 2.3.


                                                     22
climate, as measured by selected processes, and in developing the MSME sector54. These
indicators and proxy PDO are relevant at design and post-restructuring.

86.     Out of these five proxy PDO indicators, the project largely achieved the set
targets on (i), (iii) and (iv), and was not successful on (ii). Some of the effects of the
program have yet to materialize including those related to the recently enacted laws,
namely on starting a business.

87.     In the matching grant program – indicator (v) - there are indications of a
successful implementation, and positive feedback from the firms supported (see Annex 5),
but in general it is not known if the program was able to improve the turnover of the
targeted firms versus a valid control group55 (see Annex 3 for more details on attempt to
conduct impact evaluation). In the absence of a rigorous impact evaluation, the team
conducted a customer satisfaction survey. Based on this assessment, 68 percent of the
firms considered the matching grant helped them improve skills, 47 percent of them to
improve product quality, and 44 percent to increase sales. During the period of the project,
beneficiary firms grew in employment (31 percent), investments (109 percent) and
turnover (62 percent). These changes cannot be attributed to the BUGS support directly,
but the general perception of the firms’ beneficiaries was positive. In any case, there is
insufficient information on whether or not indicator (v) was achieved.

88.     In this scenario, where three PDO indicators were successful, one is unsuccessful,
and one cannot be attributed, this suggests a Substantial rating for achievement of the
proxy PDO. Given these indicators are the most relevant both before and after the Level 1
restructuring, a Substantial rating is appropriate for achievement of the proxy PDO both
for approval and against the revision of the project.

89.      In more detail, the following are the main achievements of the project:

      (i) Financing, training, and placing the team that helped draft 24 core regulations
      and laws according to international standards to promote private sector investment.
      These laws were either enacted or just before Parliament. These laws included the
      Investment and Export Promotion Bill, Credit Reference Bureau Bill, Personal
      Property Security Bill, Business Registration Bill, Companies Act, and Business
      Licensing Bill. Additionally, this team developed a pipeline of an additional 22 laws
      in very advanced stages of preparation. The list of laws is detailed in Annex 2, as well
      as details on their consulting process of preparation.

      (ii) Putting in place in Blantyre and Lilongwe an operating Commercial Division of
      the High Court helping to address disputes of commercial matters above MWK 1



54
   With equal weights, this second area is then less important than business environment because only one
indicator is used versus four in investment climate. Given the name of the project and the importance given
to investment climate, that is not an unfair assumption.
55
   The government reaches the same conclusion in its ICR (see Annex 7).


                                                   23
      million56. Over 1,000 cases have been judged by the Commercial Court since 2007
      with an average of 96 calendar days per case 57 . This metric compares with 432
      calendar days for the traditional Magistrate’s Court in judging commercial disputes.

      (iii) Establishing an operating IT system to register land. The days to register
      property have decreased from 118 in 2007 to 69 days in 2012.

      (iv) Establishing an Institutional Framework for Public Private Partnerships (PPPs).
      This included enacting a new PPP bill among other initiatives to strengthen the
      institutional support in this area.

      (v) Improving awareness of the matching grant program (BUGS) in Malawi and
      finishing the project with 1,130 cost share agreements and a number of firms assisted.

      (vi) Improving the institutional capacity of the MITPSD in implementing programs,
      including a core group of officials with solid competences for continuing the support
      to business environment reforms.

      (vii) Creating institutional knowledge in the MITPSD on the usage of counterfactual
      analysis in informing results-based policy making.

90.      On the other hand, these were certain obstacles to better outcomes:

      (i) Limited progress in establishing an operating One-Stop-Shop (OSS) on
      Investment and Trade (MITC). The MITC bill was only passed in 2012. The OSS is
      still very incipient and no relevant progress was achieved on business licenses.

      (ii) In spite of the investment in IT, capacity building, and changes of processes,
      which resulted in having in place a new administrative system, the business
      registration is still done manually as of the time of the ICR assessment58. The system
      has been tested and is ready, but has not yet been launched. Furthermore, the delays
      in 2010-12 in enacting some of the regulations have limited the change in the main
      indicators of progress on business registration. Going forward, the legislative work
      funded by BESTAP on removing the need of a company seal, reducing the time it
      takes to get a business license of City Assembly from 29 to 7 days (Business License
      Bill), and reducing the requirement of inspections in every firm, should allow for
      improving the time to start a business target.

      (iii) The project supported the creation of an operating Public Private Dialogue
      (PPD) discussing issues such as tax reforms, inter-bank interest rates, labor reforms,


56
   Approximately US$2,700 at current exchange rate, given the recent depreciation of the Malawian
Kwacha. 18-24 months ago it was equivalent to approximately US$5,000.
57
   Source: PIU
58
   A dispute on the final training program – doing it in Malawi or outside of the country – is hindering the
launch of the automation system that is already tested and in place.


                                                    24
      electricity problems, water supply, and exports. This was useful for establishing the
      debate, but the capacity of the platform to generate change was limited. At best, it
      speeded up ongoing reforms. One of the issues seemed to be that the officials
      including some Ministers present in the PPD did not have enough power to generate
      change 59 . Following the conclusion of the project, the PPD platform is still
      operational with the support of the Chamber of Commerce.

      (iv) Two subcomponents of the project – establishment of a SME Investment Fund
      and merger of two banks – were dropped less than two years before closing the
      project. The policy change60 does not fully explain the problem here. The failure of
      these activities is related to project design, which may not necessarily be attributed to
      government or Bank shortcomings61.

      (v) One of the activities added at restructuring – support to the Immigration
      Department in preparing licenses for investors – never took off because of limited
      funds for implementation, suggesting inadequate preparation of the restructuring
      process.

      (vi) Issues in setting up the co-financing process have confused implementation and
      hindered the achievement of results – like improvement in DB ratings – during the
      duration of the project.

      (vii) The relative importance of institutional capacity building likely hindered the
      possibility of addressing earlier the immediate outcome measures of the project.

3.3      Efficiency
Rating of Efficiency - Original: Modest
Rating of Efficiency - Revised: Modest

91.     The PAD presented in its Annex 9 an economic analysis for every subcomponent
of the project. The analysis at approval suggested a NPV of US$20 million and an ERR
of 49 percent. In spite of efforts with the original TTL of the project, it was not possible
to recover for this evaluation the files that helped construct the cost-benefit analysis at
design. Given the nature of the majority of the interventions – legislative reforms, new
processes, new IT systems, capacity building – the figures presented at design were
purely speculative. A NPV or ERR should not have been used to assess whether to go


59
   Anecdotally, there were indications of power concentrated in the Presidency.
60
   In the case of the SME Investment Fund, the government decided to pursue a development bank rather
than a venture capital fund. This would imply for substantial seed capital and a different institutional set up
that BESTAP was not ready to provide. In the case of the merger between MSB and MRFC, the
government decided to keep the entities separate and pursue reforms internally.
61
   In the case of the merger between MSB and MRFC, interviews for this evaluation seem to suggest that
there was significant pressure from the then Minister of Finance in including this activity under the project.
In the larger picture of things, some of the decisions on project structure often include accepting activities
that the team is not fully comfortable with (especially when there is no clear acceptance that it will also go
wrong), but that are needed to move other core set of activities forward.


                                                     25
ahead with interventions such as those in Component 1 and 2. Therefore, for the purpose
of this ICR, a new NPV / ERR model for assessing the efficacy of these interventions
was not applied.

92.     The only component where it would be appropriate to conduct the economic
analysis through a NPV approach is Component 3. Here, two subcomponents were
dropped during implementation, while the matching grant program (BUGS) remained. It
would have been appropriate to include a rigorous impact evaluation of this
subcomponent comparing the actual effects with the economic analysis. That was
attempted in 2010, but a set of problems including low take-up at that time of the impact
evaluation (25 percent of the funds had been disbursed) and lack of commitment from the
implementing agency limited the possibility of incorporating an impact evaluation.
Nonetheless, a study was commissioned by the project at its end to conduct a review of
BUGS. That assessment is summarized in Annex 5, showing that the matching grant
program became gradually accepted by MSMEs in Malawi (in the end over 1,100 cost-
sharing grants were awarded). Given the limitations at that stage in attributing causality,
the study focused on a customer satisfaction survey. Based on this self-assessment, 68
percent of the firms considered the matching grant helped them improve skills, 47 percent
of them to improve product quality, and 44 percent to increase sales. However, only 15
percent believed that BUGS had directly increased the income and employment levels of
their businesses, while 28 percent thought there was no tangible impact yet, but felt more
confident that things would improve.

93.     The interventions in Component 1 and 2 are grounded on the assumption that they
help facilitate local and international investment. For instance, with a better system of
enforcing contracts, investors would at the margin be more attracted to invest in Malawi
vis-à-vis other countries that do not have the same conditions. The same holds true if the
legislation for developing businesses is transparent and clear. However, the actual
investments are not solely dependent on these parameters, but could also be driven by
good economic opportunities and other factors. In that vein, the important efficiency
questions for this type of interventions are (i) whether there are more productive
alternatives within the same scope of doing business activities and (ii) whether
implementation was done at the least possible cost.

94.     On the first question, we can take the example of the business registration reforms
under the project – a new registration bill, digitization of existing records, and
computerization of the application process – which are linked to the stated PDO indicator.
After visiting the Department of Registrar’s General (DRG) offices in Blantyre, it is easy
to argue that these reforms are necessary. But, the question is whether they make a
difference in terms of generating new registrations and making an impact in SME
development through formalization. The numbers from other countries suggest that
sometimes – not always - improving processes generate increased demand for business
registration, especially driven by new entrants62. In Malawi, the impact evaluation done


62
  Bruhn, 2013. http://blogs.worldbank.org/allaboutfinance/one-stop-shops-do-they-or-don-t-they-increase-
business-registration


                                                  26
in the auspices of BESTAP tested whether making it extremely easy to register can make
a difference. Indeed, if registration process was totally costless to the firm, a high
proportion of firms would accept registration (approximately 75 percent). In terms of the
effects on firms’ development of becoming formal, it seems that these impacts in the
short run are small. There are indications of better outcomes when combining
formalization with access to business bank accounts (see more on this in Annex 3).

95.    On the second question, a comparison of the cost of the activities with other
countries conducting similar reforms seems appropriate. In the case of new IT systems
for business and land registration for instance, it seems that the costs were in line with
other countries doing similar investments63.

96.      A least cost approach analysis of the commercial court may suggest though that
other options could have been cheaper 64 , but these at the risk of not achieving the
objective. Given that there was a decision to fully fund a new structure under the High-
Court rather than making more judges available in the old Magistrate’s Court for
commercial cases only, it is questionable that this was the cheaper option from a pure
efficiency point of view. If the Magistrate’s court were to place three judges and 30 of
their (new) staff solely working on Commercial Cases, it is possible that the same results
– 96 days on average to solve commercial disputes - could have been achieved. However,
this higher cost that the project incurred seems to be justified on the risks that the
efficient approach would have had a higher variance of results: a non-negligible chance
of not performing. A new agency with separate space reduced the political-economy
institutional risks associated with implementation.

97.     A critical aspect that is important to consider in this assessment is the cost of
implementation and coordination. During BESTAP’s implementation, the risk of having
a high number of implementing agencies was somehow controlled because the PIU was
effective in supervising the activities of the different organizations. However, this came
at a cost to the project. The PIU and M&E (Component 4), which had been budgeted at
approval and restructuring to cost 15 percent65 and 19 percent of the envelope, ended up
representing 27 percent of the project expenses, 35 percent of IDA funds. By
restructuring, Component 4 represented 30 percent of the disbursements until then.

98.    Component 4’s expenses comprised US$2 million for fees to project staff, US$1.2
million for operating costs, US$625 thousand for equipment, US$600 thousand for PIU




63
   According to Investment Climate IT Specialist at the WBG - Mozambique: Information System with no
customized development, US$130 thousand; Liberia: Business registration system, US$1.5 million;
Rwanda, Business registration system, collateral registry, IP, US$2.5 million.
64
   The state continues to pay for the operating expenses of the court including the maintenance costs of the
buildings and their opportunity cost after the conclusion of the project.
65
   At design, it was thought the PIU would only last for the initial two years – and then the project would
move to the MITPSD - but budget already considered more because by restructuring it was known that the
PIU would stay for the overall project and the difference in budgeting was not so high.


                                                    27
training, and US$550 thousand for coordination meetings. Three percent of the
Component 4’s expenses were devoted to M&E (excluding the team’s specialist salary).

99.     The costs of Component 4 are considered high even if not uncommon to other
projects in the region with large number of counterparts: for instance, the costs of the PIU
for the Malawi’s Community-Based Rural Land Development Project (P075247) were 32
percent of the total budget.

100. In sum, given the difficulty in measuring effectiveness of the project
subcomponents, there is a need of focusing this analysis on cost efficiency for both the
original and the restructured PDO. In that line, the cost of the PIU throughout project
implementation suggests that a Modest rating is appropriate both against the original and
restructuring efficiency. The problems in efficiency were also raised by the
implementation partners during stakeholder workshops held in preparation of this ICR
(see Annex 6 for more details).

3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

101. The overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory 66 is derived from
individual outcome ratings using the guidelines for projects with formally Revised
Project Objectives.

102. Table 1 demonstrates the weights calculated to generate this result. This takes into
account that the project outcome is assessed against both the original and the revised
project objectives. The outcome rating against the original PDO is Moderately
Satisfactory reflecting the Substantial ratings on relevance and efficacy and Modest on
efficiency. The outcome rating against the revised PDO is also Moderately Satisfactory
reflecting the High rating on relevance, Substantial on efficacy and Modest on efficiency.

               Table 1: Outcome of BESTAP given formal revision of objectives
                                      Against Original          Against Revised
                                                                                              Overall
                                           PDO                       PDO
Rating                                     Moderately               Moderately
                                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Rating Value                                     4                        4
Weight (% disbursed                            64%                      36%
before/after PDO change)
Weighted valued                                2.56                     1.44                      4.0
Final rating (rounded)                                                                       Moderately
                                                                                             Satisfactory




66
     This rating is in line with the final Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR).


                                                       28
103. The project was overall deemed relevant for Malawi’s development strategy and
achieved a large number of important outcomes, most importantly in conducting a set of
legal reforms, improving the judicial system, improving ease of doing business systems,
and developing government’s capacity. These achievements would unlikely have
happened with the same success in the absence of the project. However, the project’s
efficiency was Modest due to the costs of implementation.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

104. Both the original and the restructured PDOs indicate that the project’s target
group was local and international investors. Through new investment in the country,
BESTAP aimed to increase employment and eventually affect poverty, but that was not
stated as an objective because the link would be too far-fetched. In that vein, the project
reached in generic terms its target group. In the short-term, the effects on the poor may
have been limited but that was known from the onset. In terms of the target group, the
only way of having a leakage of benefits would be through the overhead costs of the
interventions. Putting in place a large project with fixed costs is likely to generate some
fixed expenses that do not go directly to the benefit of the main target group.

105. The M&E Indicators were gender neutral. Even the matching grant program was
not designed with the objective of disproportionally targeting women, hence there is
limited information on the relative success in developing through this project women-
owned enterprises for instance.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

106. A large emphasis of the project was on building the institutional capacity of the
departments involved. A lot of effort was put on training programs and bringing the right
set of skills and tools to (i) improve ways of doing things and (ii) continue pursuing
future reforms. This was part of the original PDO. Based on individual interviews for this
evaluation, as well as assessment of achievement post-project, there are indications of a
stronger MITPSD, continuing the reforms agenda beyond the closure of BESTAP.

107. In the first aspect, BESTAP provided instruments for facilitating processes but it
also conducted very intense capacity building exercises. Some officials spent long
periods – 1 to 3 months – working directly with someone in a similar position in a
different country. The objective was to go beyond in-class training and move to more
intense learning mechanisms that could have lasting effects on a better way of doing the
job. A total of 50 short-courses were also taken by officials attached to the MITPSD.

108. In the second dimension, the project supported Masters’ programs of two
government officials, who returned to the Malawi public sector after completion. This has
the immediate effect of removing officials from their jobs during the project, but it aimed
to generate a strengthened department a couple of years down the line that could continue
to develop reforms beyond project’s closure.


                                            29
3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

109.    These are detailed in Annex 3, Annex 5 and Annex 6.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

110. The overall risk at the time of the evaluation that the development outcomes or
the expected outcomes will not be maintained or realized is Moderate.

111. At the individual level, the main risks to the development outcome are
macroeconomic, institutional, and political. The likelihood that the core achievements of
the project are reversed is low to moderate and it is mostly concentrated in areas with
limited relative importance.

112. The risk of Malawi having macroeconomics problems is high. In 2012, the
depreciation of the exchange rate was over 100 percent, inflation has increased sharply,
and fuel shortages became the norm. This reflected both political and economic issues in
the final stages of the previous government. The problem for the sustainability of the
development outcomes of BESTAP is that in a scenario of weak macroeconomics, the
business environment as measured by the DB becomes less relevant for investment. The
contribution to the investment climate from the project would still remain, but the
relevance of that contribution would lose some of its importance.

113. The future evolution of the economy may have an impact as well in the
effectiveness of the matching grant component. In this case it can go both ways - for
instance, a recovering economy may mean that all businesses do well irrespectively of
having received the cost-sharing grant. This would mean that the impacts of the matching
grant program are reduced. A study in Tunisia67 has shown large impacts of a matching
grant program on exports in the early years after the program, but then the impact was not
sustained in the medium-term.

114. The institutional risk can take effect through two means. The more problematic
one would be if some of the institutions that were created with the project and have
committed to carry on work of the project are dissolved due to lack of funds. In the case
of the Commercial Division of the High Court, there is little risk that the institution will
close because there is strong ownership and to some extent it is self-sustainable68. For the
PPD secretariat, the private sector has already continued supporting it, and it will
continue as long as it sees value in this structure.


67
   Cadot et al., 2012. “Are the Benefits of Export Support Durable? Evidence from Tunisia?. World Bank
Working Paper 6295.
68
   The court fees go the state’s budget but the government will recognize that it is a source of income that
should be kept.


                                                    30
115. The second means of the institutional risk materializing is through the lack of
maintenance of the systems installed. This is the case for instance for the (Information
and Communication Technology) ICT systems put in place in Registration offices. It will
be very important to keep monitoring its sustainability.

116. The risk of a political change that would lead to modifications in the legislation
that was enacted is negligible because the reforms are not politically contentious in
Malawi, and there is a strong commitment from both the new government and the
supporters of the old government in pursuing these policies. These results of the project
were the core of the development outcome achievements and will to some extent be
irreversible. Furthermore, the new government has shown a tremendous enthusiasm in
completing some of the reforms – for instance in legislations – that had been started
under BESTAP.

117. Table 2 below summarizes the relevance of each risk for the main types of areas
of intervention of the project.

                          Table 2: Risks to achievements of the project
BESTAP                     Political risk         Macroeconomic         Institutional risk
Proxy PDO                                         risk
Indicators

Commercial division                                                        Risk of sustainability
of High-court
                                                                           Likelihood: Low
                                                                           Impact: Substantial
Time to start a                                                            Risk of new processes
business / register                                                        / systems being
property                                                                   dropped

                                                                           Likelihood: Low
                                                                           Impact: Substantial
Legislative reforms        Risk of change in      Risk of reforms
                           political course       becoming irrelevant in
                                                  an adverse economic
                           Likelihood: Low        environment
                           Impact: Substantial
                                                  Likelihood: Moderate
                                                  Impact: High
Impacts on firms of                               Risk of not being able
the cost-sharing grants                           to tackle new
                                                  opportunities

                                                  Likelihood: Moderate
                                                  Impact: Substantial




                                                 31
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

118. At entry, the Bank facilitated preparation by drafting a number of supporting
documents that informed project design. These included the 2004 DTIS, the 2006 ICA,
the annual Doing Business surveys, the 2006 Malawi Country Assistance Evaluation
(CAE), the 2006 Governance and Anticorruption Report (GAC), and the Portfolio
Improvement Plan (PIP) prepared by the CMU jointly with the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG).

119. This knowledge was incorporated in the PAD and in the discussions with the
government and other donors on what to do. The PAD is detailed in explaining the
problems investors faced, and why it was thought the Bank could support the government
in addressing private sector development issues. The appraisal was also substantive in
identifying risks to implementation, and incorporating lessons from previous projects.
The fiduciary aspects were well considered from the entry stage including a very detailed
procurement plan with a timeline of activities.

120. The shortcomings at entry may have included some of the technical solutions
identified by the team, particularly the very strong focus on business environment issues,
in detriment of other constraints to private sector development like access to finance and
access to markets. The Bank’s leadership in this debate certainly had an influence in the
final design of the project. The problems in these early assessments were also present in
the economic analysis of the project, which was based on very optimistic figures in areas
where this type of economic analysis is not appropriate. There were also weaknesses in
the preparation of the M&E framework notably in setting the PDO indicator.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

121. The supervision missions took place regularly and they adequately reported the
developments in implementation of the project through ISRs and aide-memoires. The
quality of the information prepared by the PIU and its usage by the Bank facilitated the
conclusions and recommendations to government provided during supervisions missions.
The quality of the supervision processes was high and detailed analysis of fiduciary
issues continued throughout the life of the project. Given that three TTLs managed the
project during its life time, this affected supervision early, but the consistency of
approaches across time was a laudable feature of the project.




                                           32
122. The M&E framework and the PDO were only revised at the margin – despite the
restructuring – during the duration of the project, which hindered the possibility of more
clearly establishing goals and assisting the government in achieving those goals.

123. BESTAP was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in early 2009 when it became
evident that two of the subcomponents in Component 3 would not be implemented and
there were some delays in other aspects of the project such as the creation of the MITC.
The team was quick to respond at that stage, but was also quick in migrating the project
back to Moderately Satisfactory in September 2009, significantly ahead of the
restructuring that only happened in late 2010, more than 18 months after the alert was
raised. The reasons raised in the supervision mission69 of September 2009 for the upgrade
in rating included that the team thought that the pace of implementation had improved
significantly with the majority of the components registering notable progress. At that
time, the team had worked with the government on a draft restructuring paper that did not
include change in the PDO. Discussions over the next year led to a Level 1 restructuring
and a request by the government of restructuring that was sent to Bank much later than
the initial flag in early 2009.

124. Furthermore, in other activities that were not progressing as well or were
progressing but not generating significant changes, the Bank remained relatively hopeful
that they would turn around before the end of the project. There could have been scope to
be more outspoken in raising flags of areas that were not achieving the goals. The project
was often rated Satisfactory when only a limited number of subcomponents were
achieving the desired results.

125. One issue of difficult judgment is the speed of disbursing of funds. While a high
disbursement rate is often supported by the Bank’s structure, this may not always be
aligned with the project’s success. The allocation of the expenses to where they make
more sense should be priority. The Bank’s focus on keeping high disbursements rates can
lead - like in the case of BESTAP - to overspending by some subcomponents at the cost
of others, which is sometimes not in the interest of the project’s objectives. Certain
activities with potential were not even implemented due to shortage of funds at the time
that they were ready.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

126. This rating combines the score for quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Both of these ratings were Moderately Satisfactory, thus the overall Bank performance is
also kept at Moderately Satisfactory.




69
     Restructuring Appraisal & Implementation Support Mission, September 16-24, 2009.



                                                    33
5.2      Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

127. While the Bank’s main shortcoming in implementation was not acting fast enough
when there was a need for restructuring, the government’s shortcomings also included:
the deterioration of the institutional environment affecting at the margin the importance
of the project (see Section 4) and the speed of implementation of reforms during the
critical years of 2010-12.

128. The commitment of the government to the project and in more general terms to
the agenda of business environment was high at design. The government incorporated the
doing business agenda into their policy goals. The government was also prudent when it
decided to establish a PIU instead of running the operation from the MITPSD. The
government’s support to the project went well in the first years, but there were political
problems70 mid-way through implementation. Simultaneously, there were fuel, electricity
and foreign currency shortages associated with these political issues. This was in part
linked to the international crisis and its effects on the declining prices of commodities,
but that does not explain the full scope of instability, as other countries in the region did
not suffer to the same extent.

129. While BESTAP was implemented in consultation with other donors, in 2011
some donors including the UK suspended new aid 71 to Malawi following a series of
political, social and economic controversies 72 . This reinforced an already worrisome
economic and social unrest, which may have hampered the full success of the project.

130. While the first couple of years of implementation and the end of the project went
well from the point of view of overall government performance, the instability created in
the focal years of 2010 to mid-2012 combined with the delays in putting in place the
changes in the project leads to a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating of the government.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

131. Implementation of the project was managed by the PIU, part of which including
the Project Coordinator, had migrated from the previous FPD project (PURP). The
previous experience, high professionalism, and knowledge of Bank procedures and
standards facilitated project implementation. This helps explain the fact that there were


70
   http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-15206437
71
   Reengagement was obtained with the new government in 2012.
72
   This included expelling the British ambassador after he criticized Malawi's leadership as autocratic in a
leaked diplomatic cable (linked to the wikileaks case).


                                                    34
no significant delays in project disbursement. The fiduciary arrangements were also
secured within the PIU and despite the changes in the FM and Procurement Specialist,
they were kept to high standards of Bank procedures.

132. As discussed in the efficiency section, the costs of having an effective PIU are
considered high. The effectiveness of the project investment is undermined when project
management costs, which do not directly contribute to achieving PDO, exceed US$5
million out of US$18.7 million.

133. In addition to the PIU’s overall management of the project, ten implementing
agencies were involved. The Steering Committee where these agencies were present had
regular supervision meetings throughout project implementation but did not meet in 2012,
allegedly for lack of funds. It seems that the relationships between agencies and between
agencies and the PIU were not always smooth 73 . Ownership, alignment with the
objectives of their subcomponents, readiness for implementation, and adequacy of
monitoring of results, varied across implementing agencies. This helps explain why a
better rating is not achieved for the overall outcome.

134.     The implementing agencies’ performance is hence rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

135. This rating combines the score for the government (Moderately Unsatisfactory)
and implementing agencies’ (Moderately Satisfactory) performance. Appendix A of the
ICR Guidelines 74 recommends that when the rating for one dimension is in the
Satisfactory range and the other is in the Unsatisfactory range (like is the case here), the
overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory if the Outcome is rated in
the Satisfactory range (as is the case here as well).

6.       Lessons Learned

136. The lessons learned from preparation and implementation of BESTAP are diverse
and include:

(i)     Projects can have valuable outcomes even when their objectives are not
transformational. Given BESTAP’s focus on processes (systems and regulations), it
raises the question whether individual projects should always aim at higher-level
transformational outcomes such as poverty, economic growth, or investment, or whether
it would be valuable to sometimes clearly accept that the project’s objective is just an
interim outcome. Certain systems and processes, when implemented will not answer the


73
   This is based on individual and group consultations to all agencies involved, including specific examples
of how these may have affected completion of the proposed activities.
74
   Page 41 of the OPCS ICR Guidelines (August 2006, updated 2011).


                                                    35
bigger questions, but they are needed especially in IDA countries. The question remains
whether the Bank’s role can be to get involved in these areas, particularly if the changes
lay the groundwork for more impactful far-reaching reforms. Currently, in the absence of
the Bank’s support, these processes are often not improved, delaying other aspects in the
development process. Hence, the Bank could have more candid approach to the question
and acknowledge more often in project design that it may just want to successfully
improve a new system or process, which is needed for more important things to happen.

(ii)   Applying a theory of change is important for understanding which
assumptions are needed to achieve the project objectives. There are possible critiques
of the Doing Business indicators, but their simplicity facilitates preparing a theory of
change. It is possible with the DB to identify how certain outcomes such as time taken to
process X can or cannot be changed by the activities of the project. In some cases, the
team did not do early enough this kind of analysis, making it difficult to act swiftly in
generating the desired change.

(iii) Partnerships are good but do not underestimate time and costs of
coordinating with other donors. Co-financing helped implement the project, but
between the decisions in 2007 to work together and the release of the EC funds in 2011,
there were four years of negotiations, delays in processes, and a number of activities
started under the assumption of a larger envelope. For future, more discussion needs to
happen between donors to review project documents and procedures. Any space for
facilitating processes – ensuring the other donors’ processes are also followed – would
naturally be welcomed.

(iv)    It is important to incorporate the new information in a timely manner. Once
information affecting project design is available, it is important not to delay the
restructuring process. Similarly, it is critical to secure that the funds allocated at
restructuring for a new subcomponent are actually available for those activities.

(v) Need for effective mechanisms of controlling coordination costs. Working with
many government agencies was an objective in itself because one of the core goals of
BESTAP was to increase the capacity of local agencies. A strong PIU was able to deal
with this issue, but with high costs of coordination. It would be important to identify
mechanisms of working with multiple players and at the same time keeping coordination
costs low.

(vi)   More complex programs such as matching grants may require a pilot phase
and commitment to learning from all levels of the project. When little is still known
about traditional matching grant programs, it is difficult to make a case about their
implementation or against it. Given the multiple options of implementation, it would
make sense to pilot variations and then scale-up the most effective approach. In a country
like Malawi where the culture of using matching grant programs is limited and the
number of services providers available is low, it takes time to get a program up and
running smoothly and effectively. Hence piloting within the initial phases of BESTAP
would facilitate future implementations.



                                           36
(vii) Public-Private Dialogue is important but should be as much as possible
linked to results. The objectives of the PPD platforms need to be clear from the onset to
avoid open discussions that may or may not generate results. The expected areas of
reforms and ideally targets in terms of number of reforms should be set from the onset to
guide expectations and lead to more productive results.

(viii) Not all components of a project are amenable to an NPV/ERR economic
analysis. In the case of BESTAP, the team prepared economic analysis using a net-
present value methodology for all interventions of the project. This is an incorrect use of
the methodology and questions the review process of project management. One way of
addressing this is to have reviewers more focused on individual sections, in this case on
the economic analysis.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower prepared a completion report, which is attached in Annex 7. It also
provided the following comments on the draft ICR. The Bank’s response is noted in
italics:
      Given the recent progress in laws and regulations prepared under the BESTAP,
         the government will be available to update the report before its submission with
         the bills passed recently into Law. The Bank will confirm the status of the list of
         Bills in various stages (Annex 2) before finalizing the ICR.

      One of the lessons learned mentioned in the report is that there is a need for acting
       in a timely manner once information affecting project design is known. BESTAP
       was certainly a victim of this. Despite the early recognition to discontinue the two
       activities (Merger of MSB and MRFC and the creation of the Malawi
       Development Fund) it was agreed that the restructuring should coincide with the
       mid-term review.

(b) Cofinanciers
The European Commission, which co-financed BESTAP, provided the following
comment on the draft ICR. The Bank’s response is noted in italics:
    Thanks for the report which is well written. It appears that our Finance and
     Contracts Section does not have comments at this point in time. One observation
     on the investment made through BESTAP vis a vis sustainability of the initiatives:
     ICT systems at the Registrar of Companies, Lands Registry among others. My
     reading of the report (especially page 35) indicates that the performance of
     Implementing Agencies was rated as Moderately Satisfactory. How committed
     are the agencies to keep the systems up and running? Are there long term
     maintenance plans or assurances from GoM that they will continue to maintain
     the systems? I know that these are side issues but critical to the objectives of
     BESTAP. The Bank agrees with the risk and has made it clear in the risks section.



                                            37
There is for the time being strong commitment from the government in continuing
using the systems put in place, but considering that could change, it would be
important to set in place long-term maintenance plans.




                                  38
                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                       Actual /         Actual /
                                                     Actual    PAD       PAD      Restructuring
Component 1
Streamlining the Regulatory Environment for
                                                        811    1,100       74%
Business (Ministry of Justice)
Improving Access to Commercial Justice (High
                                                      1,841    1,300     142%
Court, Commercial Division)
Improving Services at the Business and Lands
                                                      3,443    1,850     186%
Registries
Department of Immigration (appears also as
                                                          6       0
Component 2 in the M&E Framework)
                                                      6,100    4,250     144%              93%

Component 2
Establishing a One-Stop-Shop at the Malawi
                                                        351     900        39%
Investment and Trade Centre (MITC)
Establishing an Institutional Framework for
                                                      1,018    1,800       57%
Public Private Partnerships (MoF/PC)
Improving Private Sector Development policy
                                                      2,296    1,000     230%
analysis and delivery (MITPSD)
Supporting a Sustainable Framework for Public-
                                                        727     900        81%
Private Dialogue (MCCCI)
                                                      4,393    4,600      95%              95%

Component 3
Establishment of a sustainable SME venture
finance institution / investment fund                     0     600         0%
(MoF/private sector)
Business Growth Scheme                                3,298    3,200     103%
Merger and transformation of MRFC and MSB
                                                          0     800         0%
into a viable rural finance institution (RBM)
                                                      3,298    4,600      72%              89%

Component 4
Project Implementation Unit and M&E                   5,209    2,900     180%             144%

Unallocated                                                    2,349

Total Expenditures                                   18,999   18,699     102%             102%




                                                39
(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                       Type of      Estimate         Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing      (USD             (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)        millions)
Borrower                                         0.00             0.00          .00
EUROPARTNERS BANK                                3.70             3.58          97%
IDA Grant                                        15.00            15.44         103%


Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Objective

The main PDO indicator - Cost to formally start a business as a % of GNI per capita –
was partially achieved. The progress was obtained through a steady decline in this cost in
relative terms to income per capita, but as discussed in the main section this indicator had
problems.

         Figure 2: Cost to formally start a business as a % of GNI per capita
                          (comparison with BESTAP target)

       245
                215.7
       210                  188.7

       175

       140                            125.9
                                                   108       108.4
       105                                                              90.9
                                                                                  83.7

 Target 70

        35

          0
               DB2007     DB2008      DB2009     DB2010       DB2011   DB2012   DB2013
       Source: Adapted from DB reports. BESTAP target is for DB2012.




                                              40
          Figure 3: Cost to formally start a business as a % of GNI per capita
                               (comparison with region)




Generic goals

In general terms, it is also relevant to track the DB ranking, although there is an ongoing
review to assess its relevance. As argued in different sources 75 , the country ranking
classification is under extreme scrutiny following China and other countries concerns
about it.

During the implementation of the project, Malawi’s DB ranking kept falling as more
countries embarked on reforms and the country was not as fast in generating change. The
country started at 110th out of 175 economies in the DB2007 and ended in 145th out of
183 economies in the DB2012 (figure 4).




75
  http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/making-the-most-of-the-world-bank-s-doing-business-
report-by-ricardo-hausmann


                                                41
                Figure 4: Malawi’s Progress in the Doing Business Ranking

                                                                                        157
            160                                                              145
                                            134        132        133
                                 127
            120      110



             80


             40


              0
                   DB2007 DB2008 DB2009 DB2010 DB2011 DB2012 DB2013

                         Figure 5: Malawi’s Distance to DB frontier76




Furthermore, the PDO both at approval and at restructuring mentions a link between the
easiness of doing business and a major outcome variable. Initially that link is economic
growth, while in restructuring this is revised to local and international investment.


76
  The distance to frontier measure shows how far on average an economy is from the best performance
achieved by any economy on each Doing Business indicator since 2005. The measure is normalized to
range between 0 and 100, with 100 representing the best performance (the frontier). The overall distance to
frontier is the average of the distance to frontier in the 9 indicator sets shown in the figure. See the data
notes for more details on the distance to frontier measure.


                                                    42
Although, as discussed at length in the main text, the changes in these variables cannot be
attributed to the project, it is important to monitor how these have evolved during its
duration. This is done in Figure 6 to provide a more general picture of the environment
happening during the project.

The government has indicated that at a minimum Malawi ought to grow at 6 percent to
have effects on reducing poverty. During the period of the project77 (2008-2012), the
Malawian economy grew at a compound average growth rate of 6.4 percent (EIU, 2013).
This compares with 6.9 percent in Mozambique, 6.5 percent in Zambia, and 0.0 percent
in Zimbabwe.

The investment share in the economy remained relatively stable during the period,
indicating that it has followed the trend of economic growth. Net FDI at an average of
US$100 million per annum is still small. Net inflows of foreign investment in Malawi
represented 15 percent of the FDI in Zambia and 7 percent of the one in Mozambique78.

     Figure 6: Malawi’s GDP Growth and Net inflow of Investments (as % of GDP)

                26           26
                                            25              24
                                                                       23          23




                                            12.1
               10.8
                                                           8.3
                             5.1                                       5.2
                                                                                  1.6


               2007         2008           2009            2010       2011       2012

                                   Investment (% of GDP)          GDP growth


Components

The project supported four components:
   a) Component One: Strengthening private property rights institutions and business
       facilitation;
   b) Component Two: Strengthening private sector development support institutions
       and services;


77
  Here we are computing calendar years 2008-2012. However, the project started in mid-2007.
78
  These are of course different countries with different size, but the population numbers are not very
different between Malawi and Zambia. Malawi is also only one third smaller than Mozambique in number
of people.


                                                   43
   c) Component Three: Promoting access to finance and productivity enhancement
   d) Component Four: Capacity building and implementation support

Component One: Strengthening Private Property Rights Institutions and Business
Facilitation

This component supported activities that aimed to improve the regulatory environment in
which the private sector operates, to strengthen the institutions that protect private
property rights, and to allow speedy and low cost business facilitation. It included three
sub-components: (i) streamlining the business regulatory environment, including
addressing the large legislative backlog of economic laws and introducing key new
legislation; (ii) providing support for strengthening and expanding the capacity of the
newly established Commercial Division of the High Court to relieve the large backlog of
commercial cases in Malawi’s court system and to strengthen contract enforcement; (iii)
enabling the business and land registries to improve their effectiveness in registering
businesses and facilitating the registration and securitization of land-based assets.

(i) addressing the large legislative backlog of economic laws
The project financed the team of people attached to the government with the objective of
helping to prepare regulations and updating outdated laws to facilitate investment. Table
3 describes the laws enacted or in the process of being enacted during the project duration.
BESTAP aimed initially to update/prepare 40 laws up to Parliament/Cabinet stage.

According to Table 3 below, 19 out of 46 proposed laws are already enacted / in force
and five others are before the Parliament or Cabinet. A number of others are in the
process of being commented by the respective authorities. Hence, significant progress
was done in this area, but the work has not been concluded. Overall, this was one of the
strongest subcomponents of the project with significant progress in revising the legal
environment for firms and investors operating in Malawi.

Among the laws listed below, there is the review of Companies Act and the Investment
Act, which were added at restructuring as core activities of the project. Part of the funds
released from the components dropped in Component 3 was used to assist this legislative
review.

             Table 3: List of Bills/Acts drafted or revised under BESTAP

                               Bill / Act                                 Approval
Enacted
 1    Investment and Export Promotion Bill                                   2012
 2    Public-Private Partnership Bill                                        2011
 3    Employment Amendment Bill                                              2010
 4    Credit Reference Bureau Bill                                           2010
 5    Financial Cooperatives Bill                                            2011
 6    Microfinance Bill                                                      2010
 7    Securities Bill                                                        2010


                                            44
  8    Business Registration Bill                          2012
  9    Financial Services Bill                             2010
 10    Reserve Bank of Malawi Amendment Bill               2011
 11    Banking Bill                                        2010
 12    Insurance Bill                                      2010
 13    Pension Bill                                        2011
 14    National Registration Bill                          2010
 15    Personal Property Securities Bill                   2013
In force
 16    Companies (Winding-up) Rules                        2010
 17    Road Traffic Registration and Licensing Amendment   2010
       Regulations
 18    Road Traffic Miscellaneous Fees Regulations         2010
 19    Road Traffic Prescribed Offences and Penalties      2010
       Amendments
Before Parliament
 20    Business Licensing Bill
 21    Companies Amendment Bill
Before Cabinet
 22    Export Processing Zones Amendment Bill
 23    Tenancy Labour Bill
 24    Insolvency Bill
Submitted to relevant authority for comments
 25    Tax Administration Bill
 26    Malawi Revenue Authority Amendment Bill
 27    Taxation Amendment Bill
 28    Customs and Excise Amendment Bill
 29    Value Added Tax Amendment Bill
 30    Export Incentives Amendment Bill
 31    Copyright Bill
 32    Arbitration Bill
 33    Malawi Road Traffic Authority Bill
 34    Malawi Ports Authority Bill
 35    Control of Goods Amendment Bill
 36    Labour Relations Bill
 37    Conveyancing Act
Being drafted / waiting instructions
 38 Tenancy Labour Forms Regulations
 39 Consumer Protection Bill
 40 Competition and Fair Trading Amendment Bill
 41 Cotton Bill
 42 Tobacco Bill
 43 Corrupt Practices Bill



                                        45
 44    Land Act
 45    Registered Land Act
 46    Money Laundering, Proceeds of Serious Crime and
       Terrorist Financing Act

The policy choices to select the laws of focus were based on the Malawi Investment
Climate Assessment 2006 and on the Prioritization of Economic Laws for Review 2008.
The drafting of the laws received support from international experts. For instance, the
Personal Property Security Bill 2013 and the Insolvency Bill 2013 are related to areas
that are fairly complex and where the level of local expertise was deemed not sufficient.
Following the Doing Business Reform Memorandum for Malawi prepared by the World
Bank Group in 2009, the WB Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) provided
technical assistance in reviewing and reforming these two laws. For the first, there was a
need to carry out a diagnostic of the personal property security system and the insolvency
framework. These were benchmarked against international instruments such as the
UNCITRAL Legislative Guide on Insolvency and the WB’s Principles for Effective
Insolvency and Creditor Rights Systems. The consultants carried out extensive
discussions and interviews with various stakeholders in the credit system and insolvency
systems. These included practitioners, the judiciary, financial institutions, etc.
Furthermore, the Personal Property Security Bill was presented and extensively discussed
at stakeholders’ forum where a large group of participants, including commercial law
judges, registrars, business owners and creditors, voiced their opinions. The Insolvency
Bill used aspects of the Malawian legal environment, best practices from the Mauritius
Insolvency Act of 2010 and aspects of the English Insolvency Act amended in 2002,
while at the same time following best practices from the UNCITRAL Legislative Guide
on Insolvency.

(ii) providing support for strengthening and expanding the capacity of the newly
established Commercial Division of the High Court
Another strong subcomponent of the project was the development of the Commercial
Division of the High Court.

Given the time taken to resolve commercial disputes in the traditional Magistrate’s Court,
the establishment of an alternative Commercial Court starting from scratch and fully
concentrated in these cases was seen as a good opportunity. According to the DB 2007, it
took 337 calendar days to settle a commercial dispute. However, for cases disputing more
than MWK 1 million79, the establishment of the Commercial Division of the High Court
allowed for usage of a dedicated team, including three judges in Blantyre and 1 judge in
Lilongwe80. A study conducted by the GoM suggests that on average it takes 96 calendar
days to settle a commercial dispute in the Commercial Division of the High Court versus
432 days still in Magistrate’s Court.



79
   The Magistrate’s Court is focused on cases below MWK 2 million. The exchange rate is currently at
MWK 370 to dollar, but was during the project mostly at MWK 165 to dollar.
80
   The objective is to have four judges in Blantyre and two in Lilongwe.


                                                   46
In Lilongwe, the Court has addressed over 200 cases since 2009, and in Blantyre, that
figure is over 1,000 cases. Large majority of the cases still pending are those recently
started. Therefore, it is possible to keep the levels of three months to deal with a case.
The problem with the Commercial Court is that it is more expensive than the Magistrate’s
Court, hindering some people from using it. Additionally, information does not flow
perfectly and some lawyers still advise people in using the Magistrate’s Court as a way of
keeping control of a longer-duration case.

The project supported the High Court with training including extensive study tours,
management information systems, vehicles, furniture and equipment, and workshops.
Given the small team – currently there are 34 people working in the Blantyre court – a
major issue is staff turnover, especially after receiving customized training.

                    Table 4: Cases in the Commercial Division of High Court81




      Source: PIU

(iii) Improving Business Registration and Land Registration Services

    Business Registration
For the Department of Registrar’s General (DRG) in Blantyre – responsible for
overseeing national business registration - the project supported its institutional
development with IT systems (computerization of existing records, business registration
of application platform), and capacity building (study tours, training). The total
investment amounted to US 1.7 million, which is in line with the cost of these activities



81
     Cases in 2012 refer to activity only until July 2012.


                                                        47
in other countries82. Activities were mostly completed but the new system has still not be
launched83 allegedly because of a dispute between the PIU and the staff of the DRG over
the final capacity building program.

The objective of this intervention as measured in the M&E framework was to improve
the processes of registering firms. At restructuring, where the number of indicators was
increased and targets were updated, the objectives and their results included the
following:

                 Table 5: Objectives of the Business Registration reforms

Indicator                           Objective                            Achieved?
Automated business registry         Operational                          Yes
database at DRG
% of electronic transactions        20% in 2010, 50% in 2012             No, not operational
Time to start a business            5 days                               No, still at 39 days in 2012
                                                                         (see Figure 10)
Cost to register business           US$80                                Depends on firm, cost is
                                                                         US$60.8 plus 1% of nominal
                                                                         capital




82
   According to Investment Climate IT Specialist at the WBG - Mozambique: Information System with no
customized development, US$130 thousand; Liberia: Business registration system, US$1.5 million;
Rwanda, Business registration system, collateral registry, IP, US$2.5 million.
83
   This was verified not to be in operation in late February 2013. However, the system was ready to be used.


                                                    48
                                  Figure 7: Time to start a business84
                50

                                                       39               39            39       39
                40         37            37

                                                       37               30
                30


                20                                                                    15

                10                                                                              5
       Target
                  0
                        DB2007        DB2008       DB2009        DB2010           DB2011    DB2012
                                                    Projected                Actual
In some indicators like time to start a business, this subcomponent alone would not be in
conditions to change the outcome. There are ten steps included in the registration process
and this subcomponent only dealt with two of them accounting for 8 of the 39 days
needed to register a firm. There are other subcomponents including the backlog of
economic laws that can have an effect on this target. A total of five steps are addressed by
the project.

Going forward, the legislative work funded by BESTAP on removing the need of a
company seal, reducing the time it takes to get a business license of City Assembly from
29 to 7 days (Business License Bill), and reducing the requirement of inspections in
every firm, should allow for improving the time to start a business target.

Land Registration
Similarly to DRG, the project also supported the computerization of the process of land
registry at the Department of Lands (DoL), including an application platform and
database of existing records, as well as training programs. Total investment was also of
approximately US$1.7 million.

Progress in this subcomponent was faster than in DRG with the system fully operational
by the end of BESTAP85. In a visit to the DoL in preparation for this ICR, the staff’s
capacity in using the new system was uneven, but the appreciation of the project’s work
was high.



84
  The term “starting a business? is used rather than “business registration? because registration is only one
of many steps of “starting a business?. These steps include obtaining a City Assembly business license and
registering for taxes (TPIN) among others. See Annex 11 for more details.

85
     This was verified in a visit to the Department in February 2013.


                                                       49
In terms of the subcomponent’s outcomes, the main objective that was part of the list of
indicators since approval was time to register property. The target of 60 days (from 118
days in 2007) was met by the DB2011, but then a review in 2012 brought it up again to
the DB2012 level of 69 days. This is shown in Figure 8, which indicates a strong progress
in this indicator.

                               Figure 8: Time to register property
             140
                        118           118
             120
                                                    100
             100                                                  88
              80                                                                  70
                                                                                              69
                                                                  80
     Target 60
                                                                                              60
              40                                                                  49
              20

                0
                      DB2007       DB2008        DB2009        DB2010           DB2011     DB2012
                                                 Projected             Actual


The restructuring paper again added two indicators - % of electronic transactions and
costs to user for public services. The first was fully met with all new requests being done
electronically at the end of the project. The second was difficult to assess because the
target at the end of the project was initially set at the same level as baseline86, implying
no change. The target is also dependent on the value of the land, which makes it difficult
to monitor. Actually these restructuring indicators were not monitored during neither in
the supervision missions nor in the PIU’s regular reporting.

Component Two: Strengthening Private Sector Development Support Institutions and
Services

This component focused on building capacity of institutions that provide services to the
private sector in order to improve the quality and volume of services delivered, and to
strengthen institutions that provide policy direction on PSD issues. The proposed
activities included (i) supporting the institutional capacity of the newly established
Malawi Investment and Trade Centre, including setting up the legal and regulatory


86
  If not a typo, this would suggest that the objective would be in practice to keep the cost constant in
nominal terms despite inflation. This indicator was not monitored in ISRs post restructuring, thus it is not
clear whether the team actually followed it.



                                                    50
framework for a one-stop business licensing, investment and exporting promotion centre;
(ii) establishing an institutional framework for Public Private Partnerships; (iii) build
capacity in the Department of Private Sector Development of the MITPSD, including
hiring of a small team dedicated to working on DB reforms; (iv) establishment of a
public-private dialogue (PPD) secretariat in the Malawi Confederation of Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (MCCCI) by funding two full time positions.

At restructuring, it was added a fifth subcomponent on computerizing the process for
issuing Temporary Employment Permits and Business Residency Permits.

(i) One-stop-shop at the Malawi Investment and Trade Centre
The investment in this sub-component ended up being only one third of the planned at
approval 87 . This reflected the lack of progress in merging the Malawi Investment
Promotion Agency (MIPA) and the Malawi Export Promotion Council (MEPC), which
only happened in 2011. In practice, the bulk of the support (82 percent) comprised staff
training.

The project also supported an ICT Needs assessment, an Investor Road Map Study, a
National Investment Policy, and an Investment Incentives Review. Of the planned
activities at approval, the project did not support a business process re-engineering and
restructuring of internal operations, as well as IT systems with capability of investor
tracking and online license applications.

The main outcome to measure success for this subcomponent was established at approval
to be the time to obtain (construction) licenses. The team used for the PAD the DB metric
on this, which indicated 185 days were needed to have a construction license. The target
by the end of the project was 30 days, but that was not achieved. At restructuring though,
the indicator on time for a construction license was dropped and replaced with the time to
obtain a Business Residence Permits (BRP) and Temporary Employment Permit (TEP).
This would be monitored in the Department of Immigration’s subcomponent, which
never took off.




87
     US$350 thousand instead of the US$900 thousand planned at approval.



                                                    51
                           Figure 9: Time to obtain construction license
              300                                                                268

              250
                                       213          213          213
                         185                                                               200
              200

              150                      185

                                                     90
              100                                                 70
                                                                                  50
                50                                                                        30
         Target
                  0
                       DB2007       DB2008       DB2009        DB2010           DB2011   DB2012
                                                 Projected             Actual


(ii) establishing an institutional framework for Public Private Partnerships
This subcomponent achieved its objectives of developing initial competences and a
framework for implementing PPPs in Malawi. With half the investment proposed at
approval, the subcomponent incorporated workshops on PPPs, training of the team at the
MoF, and support for a new PPP Act 88 . The goals of the subcomponent were not
extremely ambitious but that allowed as well keeping it achievable.

This intervention helped to develop a small structure in the government, which in
addition to working on a limited number of PPPs, is supervising the privatization of some
companies such as Air Malawi, a bus company, and a transport terminal.

(iii) build capacity in the Department of Private Sector Development of the MITPSD
This subcomponent was very much aligned with Component 1.1 on addressing the
backlog of legislation because the team set at the MITPSD with the support of the project
– the Doing Business Unit (DBU) – was especially concentrated in advancing the
legislative framework.

The list of reforms already incorporated in the Doing Business Surveys and the
involvement of this unit are presented in Table 6 below.




88
     This law was in conjunction with the subcomponent on enacting new legislation.



                                                     52
               Table 6: Doing Business Surveys reforms (DB2008-DB2013)

Indicator set      Reform                                              Year     DBU
                                                                                involved
Registering        Malawi eased property transfers by cutting the      DB2011
Property           wait for consents and registration of legal
                   instruments by half.
Getting Credit     Malawi improved its credit information system       DB2012   Yes
                   by passing a new law allowing the creation of a
                   private credit bureau.
Paying taxes       Malawi decreased the time for tax compliance        DB2010
                   by encouraging the use of electronic systems.
                   Malawi introduced a mandatory pension               DB2013
                   contribution for companies.
Trading across     The implementation of a risk-based inspection       DB2010   Yes
borders            regime and a post-destination clearance program
                   for pre-approved traders has reduced the delays
                   for clearing goods in Malawi.
                   Trading across borders in Malawi became easier      DB2013   Yes
                   thanks to improvements in customs clearance
                   procedures and transport links between the port
                   of Beira in Mozambique and Blantyre.
Enforcing          Malawi has made enforcing contracts easier by       DB2008
contracts          opening a commercial court and hiring new
                   judges.
                   Malawi simplified the enforcement of contracts      DB2011
                   by raising the ceiling for commercial claims that
                   can be brought to the magistrates court.
Resolving          Malawi introduced a new law limiting the            DB2010
insolvency         liquidator's fees during insolvency procedures.
                   Malawi adopted new rules providing clear            DB2012   Yes
                   procedural requirements and time frames for
                   winding up a company.

At restructuring, the team added a target under this subcomponent on the number of
reforms measured by the DB reports. The objective was to move from two recognized
reforms per year to three reforms per year. However, the number of reforms per year
remained at two per year during the final stages of the project. It is expected though that
the recent legislative reforms will generate recognized reforms on indicator sets such as
starting a business.

(iv) establishment of a public-private dialogue (PPD)
The project supported the creation of a PPD secretariat, which helped drive the agenda of
the dialogue between the private and the public sector. The secretariat was established at
the Malawi Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry (MCCCI), the main
hub of business associations, and involved the development of ongoing relationships with
the MITPSD.



                                              53
There were more than ten PPD meetings between the private and the public sector until
2011 89 . PPD meetings discussed cross cutting issues such as access to finance,
mechanisms of promoting export diversification, firm productivity, regulations, and
constraints in accessing utilities such as energy and water. The PPD comprised the
creation of sub-committees dedicated to discuss specific issues. Although the PPD was
seen as a good opportunity of leveling the playing field of the discussion between the
private and the public sectors, it was kept mostly at the high-level, eventually driving
follow-up discussions on particular issues that may have helped generate specific reforms.
Hence, its link to changes in business environment is so far been relatively limited.

The sustainability of the secretariat post project was kept with MCCCI taking it over,
funding one of the two core members of the team. Post project conclusion, there was
already a PPD meeting in 20 February 2013.

(v) Business Residency Permits (BRP) and Temporary Employment Permits (TEP)
At restructuring in November 2010, the government decided to change priorities and drop
two sub-components on access to finance under Component 3 and among other aspects
added a subcomponent on working with the Department of Immigration to improve the
processes of obtaining BRPs and TEPs.

These permits are requested by international investors and workers of international
companies and the process was (and still is) manual, lengthy (approximately 40 days) and
cumbersome (steps include that each of the permits needs approval by the Minister of
Labor and the cases go by letter from one department to the other).

The goal of the subcomponent was to computerize the process for issuing BRPs and
TEPs, including providing ICT infrastructure, as well as supporting capacity building in
skills development in using the new system. This intervention was seen at restructuring to
be very aligned with the reforms being done in business registration, property registration,
and in creation of the one-stop shop. Given the limited progress in the latter, the focus on
additional permits was seen as a good opportunity to continue to push for changes in
things that could be easily controlled by the government.

However, the implementation of this intervention did not take place. The main reason
was the depletion of funds by other subcomponents before this one could be implemented.
ToRs for the planned activities were prepared but there were no funds left to contract the
firm.

It was argued that this subcomponent was part of Component 2 and the funds available
from co-financing of EC were only available for Component 1. But the restructuring
paper is not clear on the Component to which this intervention belonged to. On one hand,
it mentions that it is part of Component 1 (page 21, and the allocations in page 24). On
the other hand, it is placed in Component 2 in the M&E framework.


89
     In early 2012, there was a change in government and the dialogue restarted more formally in 2013.



                                                      54
In both situations, this problem reveals that the restructuring should have made this
aspect more clear and should have ensured that there were funds available for the
activities that were being planned.

Component Three: Promoting Access to Finance and Productivity Enhancement

The objective of this component was to support the growth and development of micro
and small enterprises, into a “missing middle?, given few enterprises were located in
between the many micro and informal sector businesses, and the larger multinationals
and conglomerates. This component aimed (i) the establishment of a sustainable SME
Investment Fund to increase access to finance for small-scale enterprises; (ii) the
introduction of a matching grant scheme aimed at supporting business development
services; and (iii) merging of two state-owned banks - the Malawi Rural Finance
Company (MRFC) and the Malawi Savings Bank (MSB) to improve the service delivery
of rural finance.

(i) establishment of a SME Investment Fund
This subcomponent was dropped at restructuring. The objective at approval was to help
create a venture capital type fund partly 90 financed by the MoF and that would be
providing loans, equity, quasi equity and guarantees to SMEs. But in the PAD, it was also
mentioned that it could be just a loan guarantee fund, suggesting that there was no full
indication of which intervention would be pursued.

The lack of progress in the creation of the SME Investment Fund led to the right decision
in late 2010 to drop this subcomponent, which did not have any PDO indicator attached
to, but had an intermediate indicator - the number of SMEs benefiting from the fund91.

The reason for the change of course was mentioned in the restructuring paper to be the
government’s decision in January 2009 to move to the creation of a development bank
rather than a venture capital fund. This would imply for substantial seed capital and a
different institutional set up that BESTAP was not ready to provide.

In practice, this suggests that the design of this subcomponent was not well discussed at
approval and the decision to keep a placeholder for this subcomponent of the project was
likely not the right approach.

(ii) introduction of a matching grant scheme for business development services (BDS)
This component comprised the creation of a unit – Business Growth Scheme (BUGS) -
responsible for managing a matching grant program to support firms with 50 percent of
the cost of accessing BDSs such as training programs, participation in international fairs,


90
     The rest would be financed by the private sector.

91
     The target was 200 SMEs by the end of the project.



                                                         55
business plans, consultancy services on inventories, new products, etc. The unit also
provided advisory services to firms. BUGS was first established in Blantyre and then
expanded to Lilongwe.

The table below summarizes the take-up of the program at the end of the project. It was
worth noting a significant pick up in number of activities in the last few years of the
project. Annex 3 explains the situation in May 2010 when there were efforts to conduct a
rigorous impact evaluation. Annex 5 goes through a summary of the assessment of the
program conducted in 2012 in advance of this ICR.

                             Table 7: BUGS performance




 Source: PIU

(iii) merging of two state-owned banks - the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC)
and the Malawi Savings Bank (MSB)
The objective of this subcomponent was to support the merger of two state-owned banks
that were identified at approval not to be sufficiently effective in developing access to
finance in rural communities. The objective was to streamline operations of these two
banks by creating a joint bank that could serve clients with more products. While MRFC
was not licensed as a bank, MSB was restricted to grow by its inability to achieve the
required minimum share capital.




                                           56
This subcomponent was dropped at restructuring and no funds were expended, in this
case because the government decided not to go ahead with the merger. Differently than in
the case of the SME Investment Fund, the action of what to do was well known at
approval, but in hindsight, key informant interviews suggest that the decision was not
fully owned by the government.




                                          57
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Component 1 and 2
The PAD presented in its Annex 9 an economic analysis for every subcomponent of the
project. The analysis at approval suggested a NPV of US$20 million and an ERR of 49
percent. In spite of efforts with the original TTL of the project, it was not possible to
recover for this evaluation the files that helped construct the cost-benefit analysis at
design.

Given the nature of the majority of the interventions – legislative reforms, new processes,
new IT systems, capacity building – the figures presented at design were purely
speculative. An NPV or ERR should not have been used to assess whether to go ahead
with interventions such as those in Component 1 and 2. Therefore, for the purpose of this
ICR, a new model for assessing the efficiency of these interventions was not replicated.

The interventions in Component 1 and 2 are grounded on the assumption that they help
facilitate local and international investment. For instance, with a better system of
enforcing contracts, investors would at the margin be more attracted to invest in Malawi
vis-à-vis other countries that do not have the same conditions. The same holds true if the
legislation for developing businesses is transparent and clear. However, the actual
investments are not solely dependent on these parameters, but could also be driven, for
example, by good economic opportunities.

In that vein, the important efficiency questions for this type of interventions are (i)
whether there are more productive alternatives within the same scope of doing business
activities and (ii) whether implementation was done at the least possible cost.

On the first question, we can take the example of the business registration reforms under
the project – a new registration bill, digitization of existing records, and computerization
of the application process. After visiting the DRG offices in Blantyre, it is easy to argue
that these reforms are necessary. But, the question is whether they make a difference in
terms of generating new registrations and making an impact in SME development and
poverty reduction through formalization. The numbers from other countries suggest that
sometimes – not always - improving processes generate increased demand for business
registration, especially driven by new entrants92.

Furthermore, the project incorporated under its auspices an impact evaluation of business
registration (see below). The objective of the ongoing study is to understand the
usefulness of the business registration reform from the perspective of the firms at the
margin of becoming formal. In particular, it studies whether firms would respond to a
scenario where the process of registration was extremely easy and whether firms would
benefit from becoming formal, as often argued.



92
  Bruhn, 2013. http://blogs.worldbank.org/allaboutfinance/one-stop-shops-do-they-or-don-t-they-increase-
business-registration


                                                  58
On the second question (regarding the cost), a comparison of the cost of the activities
with other countries conducting similar reforms seems appropriate. In the case of new IT
systems for business and land registration for instance, it seems the costs were in line
with other countries doing similar investments93.

A least cost approach analysis of the commercial court may suggest though that other
options could have been cheaper, but these at the risk of not achieving the objective.
Given that there was a decision to fully fund a new structure under the High-Court rather
than making more judges available in the old Magistrate’s Court for commercial cases
only, it is questionable that this was the cheaper option from a pure efficiency point of
view. If the Magistrate’s court were to place 3 judges and 30 of their (new) staff solely
working on Commercial Cases, it is possible that the same results – 96 days on average to
solve commercial disputes - could have been achieved. However, this higher cost that the
project incurred seems to be justified on the risks that the efficient approach would have
had a higher variance of results: a non-negligible chance of not performing. A new
agency with separate space reduced the political-economy institutional risks associated
with implementation.

Business Registration Impact Evaluation (BRIE)94

The informal sector is usually defined as the subset of firms that are not registered with
the government and/or with a tax paying authority and is often large in developing
countries such as Malawi. According to the World Bank Doing Business Report,
“informality comes at a cost: firms in the informal sector typically grow more slowly,
have poorer access to credit and employ fewer workers?. While an informal enterprise
avoids paying taxes and complying with other regulations, it “loses access to public
goods and other benefits of official status, such as external finance? (La Porta and
Shleifer, 2008).

Governments around the world have spent much of the past decade extending a helping
hand to informal businesses by trying to make it cheaper and less burdensome to
formalize. Since 2004, 75 percent of the countries included in the Doing Business survey
have adopted at least one reform making it easier to register a business (IFC, 2009). Yet,
despite these efforts, the majority of firms in most developing countries remain informal,
with studies which have examined the impact of these regulatory reforms finding that
much of the action comes from increases in entry of new firms, rather than from
formalization of existing firms (e.g. Bruhn, 2011, Klapper et al., 2006).

Knowledge is particularly lacking on the ability of facilitation efforts to induce
formalization in a low-income African context. Furthermore, although the benefits of
business registration may include increased access to finance (business bank accounts


93
   According to Investment Climate IT Specialist at the WBG - Mozambique: Information System with no
customized development, US$130 thousand; Liberia: Business registration system, US$1.5 million;
Rwanda, Business registration system, collateral registry, IP, US$2.5 million.
94
   Campos, Goldstein, and McKenzie, findings from ongoing study.


                                                59
and loans), access to markets (government procurement, export licenses, customers who
demand receipts), access to government support programs, and access to networks
(chamber of commerce), other development obstacles are complementary to informality.
It has recently been argued that increasing access to bank accounts have promising
effects for households and micro firms (Ashraf, Karlan and Yin, 2006; Brune et al., 2011;
Dupas and Robinson, 2009).

In that vein, this is an area of important debate and one where targeted interventions can
complement the value for firms of becoming formal. One specific problem for SMEs in
Malawi is that household and business resources tend to be strongly intertwined.
Entrepreneurs tend to muddle up finances, which then frequently results in depletion of
working capital. According to baseline data for this study, 82 percent of the targeted
group of firms takes money from the business for own or household expenses whenever
needed. Hence, training on the specific benefits of separating household and business
money coupled with offering business bank accounts may have strong positive effects in
adding value to business registration.

Evaluation questions
The Malawian government is interested in evaluating whether or not formality improves
enterprise performance and, at the same time, in exploring potential reasons for high
informality. This study aims to answer the following main questions:
       What is the value for SMEs of becoming formal, particularly among the larger of
the informal firms? This study measures the effects of business registration on access to
finance, access to markets and networks, investment in the business, growth and
profitability, employment, harassment in regards to the business, standards of living of
the entrepreneurs, and household decision making.
       Do both male and female-owned enterprises gain equally from registration? Are
the effects of registration heterogeneous on other dimensions including for certain
sectors or for younger (older) firms?
       Does separating business from household money complement the value of
becoming formal?

With increased separation of household from business money, firms may (i) start tracking
revenue and costs accurately, with effects on their budgeting, (ii) manage working capital
better, (iii) reduce the risk of lack of self-control on the usage of money, and (iv) protect
the budget devoted to the enterprise from appropriation by other household
members/network of contacts.

Intervention
Under BESTAP, the Malawian government helped streamline its registration process in
order to increase the registration rate amongst small-to-medium enterprises. BRIE is a
direct response to the government’s interest in evaluating whether or not business
registration improves enterprise performance. The government will therefore use the
results to create incentives for registration in the future (if positive) or to identify other
bottlenecks that constrain enterprise performance (if negative).




                                             60
In an ideal experiment for testing the impact of business registration on enterprise
performance, a randomly selected subset of a sample of unregistered firms would be
automatically registered. To replicate this ideal experiment as closely as possible, the
intervention that we have been implementing tries to make registration totally costless.
That is, a team hired by this study visited business owners in the treatment group and
offered help in registering their businesses, while conveying to them a single-page
information flyer with the potential benefits offered by registration. For those that were
interested, the team helped them fill out the Business Registration form, took the required
photo, and delivered their entire application to the DRG, also paying the registration fee.
Once ready, the team delivered the Business Registration Certificates (BRC) to these
firms.

We invited through this process 2,250 firms of our sample of informal MSMEs to register
at the DRG. Out of these, we offered a random group of 300 of them to also register for
taxes and thus obtain a Tax Payers Identification Number (TPIN).

The formalization interventions help answering the two initial questions of this study.
Additionally, we assess the complementary value of an intervention to increase the
separation of household from business money. The additional intervention involves
informing entrepreneurs on the benefits of separating business from household money
and offering of business savings accounts.

Evaluation methodology
As the graph below illustrates, the study intervention consists of four experimental
groups, including a control sample. In order to test the impact of business registration on
business performance, informal firms get randomly assigned to costless registration with
either just the Department of the Registrar General (750 firms) or to both the Department
of the Registrar General and Malawian Tax Authority (300 firms). In order to assess the
complementary value of separating household finance from business finance, a random
subsample (1,200 firms) is also invited to training on business bank accounts. We are
targeting in this study the informal MSMEs that could potentially benefit the most from
business registration and that the government has said that would be their first group of
interest for a future road-show on business registration. We are targeting firms in urban
Lilongwe and Blantyre, the major commercial cities in the country.




                                            61
Short-term effects
The first main conclusion of the intervention is that making registration costless works in
terms of getting firms registered. According to preliminary figures, the take-up of the
offer to help registering was of circa 75 percent. Take up is higher when business owners
are also invited to an information session by a commercial bank (85 percent) but lower
for the Business Registration Certificate when firms were offered at the same time to
register for taxes (69 percent).

As expected, the refusal rate for the registration for taxes part was extremely high. Only
4 percent of this group took TPIN on top of Business Registration. On the other hand, the
demand for the commercial bank information sessions and business bank account was
high. Preliminary results suggest around 71 percent take-up of the information sessions,
with over 90 percent of these participants opening a bank account in the name of the
business in the course of these sessions.

Following these interventions, which were conducted in 2012, the team will follow these
entrepreneurs beyond the closing of BESTAP for a total period of 2 years. This follow-up
will be done through firm-level surveys, eliciting information such as business
performance, access to finance, access to markets, harassment, etc.

The first of this follow-up surveys was conducted between late November 2012 and
March 2013. It was important to assess the immediate short-term effects of the
interventions. The results of the short-term analysis suggest that immediate effects of
business registration are modest in changes in behavior beyond a small usage of the
certificate. On the other hand, coupling the intervention with access to bank accounts
seems to generate increased savings in formal accounts – any type of account – better
usage of financial records, and reduction of the intertwine between household and
business money.
_______________________

Component 3 – BUGS (matching grant program)
The only component where it would be appropriate to assess the economic analysis
through a NPV approach is Component 3. Here, two subcomponents were dropped
during implementation, while the matching grant program (BUGS) remained. It would
have been appropriate to include a rigorous impact evaluation from the onset of the
project to compare the actual effects of the matching grant with the economic analysis,
but that was not been attempted before 2010. A set of problems limited the possibility of
incorporating an impact evaluation. The reasons for not completing the rigorous impact
evaluation are summarized in this short summary below about attempts in Malawi and
other countries in Africa to conduct randomized controlled trials of matching grant
programs.

Still, a study was commissioned by the project at its end to conduct a review of BUGS.
That assessment is summarized in Annex 5, showing that the matching grant program
became gradually accepted by MSMEs in Malawi (in the end over 1,100 cost-sharing
grants were awarded). Given the limitations at that stage in attributing causality, the study
focused on a customer satisfaction survey. Based on this self-assessment, 68 percent of


                                             62
the firms considered the matching grant helped them improve skills, 47 percent of them
to improve product quality, and 44 percent to increase sales. However, only 15 percent
believed that BUGS had directly increased the income and employment levels of their
businesses, while 28 percent thought there was no tangible impact yet, but felt more
confident that things would improve. It is difficult to tell what these numbers mean in
practice for an economic analysis and hence it is impossible with current information to
rigorously compare the real impacts with the objective at the start95.

Lessons for Matching Grant Programs from Failed Attempts to Evaluate Them96

A typical matching grant consists of a partial subsidy - most commonly covering 50
percent of the cost - provided by a government program to a private sector firm to help
finance the costs of activities to promote exports, innovation, technological upgrading,
the use of business development services, and, more broadly, firm growth.

Matching grant programs are one of the most common policy tools used by developing
country governments to actively facilitate micro, small, and medium enterprise
competitiveness, and have been included in more than 60 World Bank projects totaling
over US$1.2 billion, funding over 100,000 micro, small and medium enterprises.

Yet despite all the resources spent on these projects, there is currently very little credible
evidence as to whether or not these grants spur firms to undertake innovative activities
that they otherwise would not have done, or merely subsidize firms for actions they would
take anyway.

Since firms self-select into whether they apply for such programs, and then the programs
decide which applicants receive funding, attempts to compare outcomes for matching
grant recipients to non-recipients are likely to be biased.

Attempted Experiments
We set out to design randomized experiments to prospectively evaluate seven matching
grant programs in six African countries including Malawi. Five were to be supported
through World Bank loans and technical support (including BESTAP) while two stemmed
from a direct engagement with the government.

In theory, matching grants satisfy a number of conditions that make randomization a
possibility: i) they involve selection of individual firms; ii) the numbers of firms involved
can be large enough to potentially generate enough statistical power for measuring


95
   The objective in the M&E indicators and incorporated in the economic analysis was to grow turnover of
firms supported by the matching grant by 20 percent when compared to a valid control group.

96
  Campos, F., A. Coville, A. Fernandes, M. Goldstein, and D. McKenzie (2013). “Learning from the
experiments that never happened: Lessons from trying to conduct Randomized Evaluations of Matching
Grant Programs in Africa?. Journal of the Japanese and International Economies. forthcoming.



                                                  63
impacts, and iii) data on key outcomes may be measured reasonably well through firm
surveys.

Given that the government is effectively giving away free money to firms, one might
expect significant demand for this funding, resulting in the need for projects to select
which firms receive it. Since we believe there is substantial uncertainty over which firms
would best benefit from receiving these funds, our suggestion was for randomized
evaluation based on an oversubscription design. The idea here would be to make the
matching grant programs open for all firms meeting certain basic eligibility criteria, and
then randomly select which firms would be awarded the grants from among eligible
applicants.

What happened?
Out of the seven projects that we discussed impact evaluations with, five initially agreed
to implement projects with an oversubscription-based randomization experiment included,
while the other two had encouragement designs planned.

However, in practice, we were unable to implement any of the randomized experiments
successfully. The main reasons were:

     1. Lack of applications: despite giving away free subsidies, programs struggled to
        get enough applicants97, resulting in insufficient eligible applicants to randomize
        among.

     2. Repeated delays and changes in personnel: implementation delays of over a year
        or more led to changes in government personnel, reversing some of the buy-in for
        the evaluation; it also meant we ran up against impact evaluation funding.

Why is it so hard to give away free money?

        Political economy and capture: these subsidies were viewed by some governments
         and partners as something to give their constituents: so we found Chambers of
         Commerce lobbying to keep eligibility conditions such that only their members
         would be eligible, while local governments competing with national governments
         in programs.

        Overly strict eligibility criteria: requiring firms to be registered with audited tax
         accounts tended to exclude most firms in many African countries: criteria were
         set on the idea of which firms would grow fastest, not which firms would see the
         greatest benefit from the program.



97
  In the case of BUGS, this was true at the time of the attempt to conduct the impact evaluation (first half
of 2010), but the project got traction later on – after the impact evaluation had been dropped - to achieve its
goal in number of activities supported.



                                                      64
        Last mile issues and red tape: many of the conditions imposed by the World Bank
         and governments made it difficult and burdensome for even eligible firms to apply
         and receive money. Examples include: requiring firms to get letters from the tax
         department to show they were current on taxes; requiring firms to go through
         procurement processes like getting three bids in writing for services, and paying
         upfront for services with delayed reimbursement; and restricting what grants
         could be used for.

        Incentives facing project staff: project staff was typically on fixed wage contracts,
         giving no incentive to try and get more applications.

Implications

Matching grant programs need to change the mindset from picking winners to picking
positive treatment effects: the latter is even harder to judge, making impact evaluation
even more important.

Focus more on eligibility criteria and making it easy for firms to apply, and to get the
money once they are awarded it.

There are also several lessons for designing impact evaluations of such projects: these
include using methods for small samples; having more realistic expectations on time
frames; and conducting “little IE? or impact evaluation on different program design
features.
_______________________

Component 4
A critical aspect that is important to consider in this assessment is the cost of
implementation and coordination. During BESTAP’s implementation, the risk of having
a high number of implementing agencies was somehow controlled because the PIU was
effective in supervising the activities of the different organizations. However, this came
at a cost to the project. The PIU and M&E (Component 4), which had been budgeted at
approval and restructuring to cost 15 percent98 and 19 percent of the envelope, ended up
representing 27 percent of the project expenses, 35 percent of IDA funds. By
restructuring, Component 4 represented 30 percent of the disbursements until then.

Component 4’s expenses comprised US$2 million for fees to project staff, US$1.2
million for operating costs, US$625 thousand for equipment, US$600 thousand for PIU
training, and US$550 thousand for coordination meetings. Three percent of the
Component 4’s expenses were devoted to M&E (excluding the team’s specialist salary).
Some of these costs99 concern the expenses of the team managing the matching grant


98
   At design, it was thought the PIU would only last for the initial two years – and then the project would
move to the MITPSD - but budget already considered more because by restructuring it was known that the
PIU would stay for the overall project and the difference in budgeting was not so high.
99
   The exact figure was not possible to obtain in preparation of this ICR.


                                                    65
scheme (BUGS) right after its early closure in 2011100. This followed completion of the
cost-sharing grants in a period when the future of the scheme was still under discussion.
Also, throughout the project there was a need to have accounting activities both in
Blantyre and in Lilongwe, when initially it was thought that one accountant would be
sufficient.

In any case, these costs are considered high even if not uncommon to other projects in the
region with large number of counterparts: for instance, the costs of the PIU for the
Malawi’s Community-Based Rural Land Development Project (P075247) were 32
percent of the total budget.




100
   After the completion of all the cost-sharing agreements, it was decided to have an early closure of
BUGS. In the period between that closure and ending all commitments associated with BUGS, there were
expenses that were secured by Component 4.


                                                 66
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                        Responsibility/
            Names                                  Title                     Unit
                                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Constantine Chikosi               Manager                                   EACTF
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo             Lead Procurement Specialist               EASR2
Yeshareg Dagne                    Program Assistant                         AFTFE
Wedex Ilunga                      Senior Procurement Specialist             AFTPE
Esther Angellah Lozo              Executive Assistant                      AFMMW
Khwima Lawrence Nthara            Senior Economist                          EASPT
Gert Johannes Alwyn Van Der
                                  Lead Financial Management Spec            AFTME
Linde
Dileep M. Wagle                   Consultant                                AFTFP

Supervision/ICR
Irene F. Chacon                   Operations Analyst                       AFTFW
Ingrid R. Chikazaza               Consultant                               AFMMW
Grace Ingrid Chilambo             Program Assistant                         IEGDG
Simon B. Chenjerani Chirwa        Senior Procurement Specialist             AFTPE
Yeshareg Dagne                    Program Assistant                         AFTFE
Pauline Mbombe Kayuni             Temporary                                 EASPR
Esther Angellah Lozo              Executive Assistant                      AFMMW
Samuel Munzele Maimbo             Lead Financial Sector Speciali            ECSF2
Steven Maclean Mhone              Procurement Specialist                    AFTPE
Francis Kanyerere Mkandawire      Financial Management Specialis           AFTME
Brian G. Mtonya                   Senior Private Sector Developm            AFTFE
Rekha Reddy                       Economist                                 LCSPF
Gert Johannes Alwyn Van Der
                                  Lead Financial Management Spec            AFTME
Linde
Dileep M. Wagle                   Consultant                                AFTFP

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY07                                                      3.56                           39.92
                                 Total:                    3.56101                        39.92
Supervision/ICR
 FY08                                                    17.95                           86.75
 FY09                                                    23.88                          108.51
 FY10                                                    30.68                          147.69



101
   The preparation of the project was likely linked to another code (including analytical work), hence the
limited number of staff weeks using the lending code.


                                                    67
FY11              22.68    96.16
FY12              19.78    71.94
FY13              22.04    72.56
       Total:    137.01   623.53




                68
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

  Summary of Impact Assessment of BUGS on the Development of MSMEs in Malawi
                       Salephera Consulting Ltd, June 2012

The Government of Malawi (GoM), through the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MoIT)
has, since May 2008, been implementing a five-year World Bank-sponsored Business
Growth Scheme (BUGS) within the framework of the Business Environment
Strengthening Technical Assistance Project (BESTAP). The main purpose of BUGS is to
facilitate maximum possible growth and to increase productivity within the private sector
in Malawi by providing:
            (i)   Direct technical assistance
            (ii)  Matching grant assistance
            (iii) Grants for on-site HIV and AIDS counseling and testing

This study was conducted with the underlying objective of assessing the impact of BUGS
on the development of participating micro, small and medium scale enterprises in the
country. A combination of approaches was employed as follows:
   (i)     A survey of 158 business firms (with a sample of 108 beneficiary firms and 50
           non-beneficiary firms) was conducted
   (ii)    Interviews with 20 Business Development Service (BDS) providers
   (iii) Consultations with stakeholders
   (iv)    Consultations with officials of BUGS, BESTAP and Ministry of Industry and
           Trade
   (v)     Extensive desk study of key project and national documents

Subsequent sections here-under summarize the study’s findings, conclusions and
recommendations.

Characteristics of BUGS Beneficiary Firms
Business firms supported by BUGS operate in several sectors of the economy. Relatively,
most of the firms supported are in the service sector (27 percent) and agriculture (23
percent); a few are in general trading (13 percent); a few (<10 percent) in education,
manufacturing, associations and ICT; while very few firms (<5 percent) are in
engineering/construction, tourism and mining/natural resources management.

BUGS was mandated to focus on MSMEs, though some large firms also benefited in the
process. The micro, small, medium and large enterprises respectively comprised 5
percent, 29 percent, 18 percent and 48 percent of the beneficiary firms. From these
statistics, it is obvious that the large firms benefited the most which shouldn’t have been
the case at all, given the stipulations of the project design whose beneficiary target was
MSMEs. However, this was so because at the beginning of the project, MSMEs didn’t
seem to have adequate individual financial capacity to meet their contribution
requirements under the matching grant facility, such that this determined the small
amounts that they could qualify for under the facility.




                                            69
According to BUGS management, many MSMEs could only manage contributions as
small as MK20,000.00 102 or MK30,0000.00 103 , which meant that individual and
subsequently total financial disbursements would be very small vis-à-vis the total project
funding that was to be disbursed. On realizing this, BUGS management decided to
incorporate large firms as beneficiaries to the scheme as well in order to effectively meet
their financial target. Nevertheless, management observed that MSMEs starting showing
overwhelming interest over time such that given the trend, they should have exhausted the
project funds by themselves within the stipulated project timeframe. However, BUGS had
already invited large firms and couldn’t turn them back, having already committed to
them.

At the time of the assessment, most firms (64 percent) received support for
training/workshops/seminars, a substantial proportion received support for market
research (17 percent) and business plans/feasibility studies (14 percent), and very few
firms (5 percent) received support for study tours.

A number of firms that did not benefit from the scheme (non-beneficiaries) were
randomly included into the study. The majority of the non-beneficiaries (86 percent)
indicated that they were not participating in the scheme because they were not aware of
its existence, and some (14 percent) did hear about the scheme but did not follow up
further.

Financial Performance of BUGS Beneficiary Firms
Average annual sales revenue of beneficiary firms was MK 79.3 million104 from 2008-
2010 (3-year average at mid-term valuation). The average sales revenue graph of these
beneficiary firms indicated an increasing trend, which is a promising indication of
gradually increasing financial benefits as a result of BUGS.

During the project period (2008-2010), beneficiary firms in the Southern Region of
Malawi realized significantly higher sales revenue than those in the Northern and
Central Regions, with those in the Centre realizing the least sales revenue. Annual sales
revenue of beneficiary firms in the North, Centre and South averaged MK43.1 million,
MK19.4 million and MK174.5 million respectively during this same period, resulting in
an average total of MK79.3 million.

Impact of BUGS on Business Performance: Beneficiaries’ Perception
A substantial number of the beneficiary firms were not sure of the direct contribution of
BUGS to the improvement of their businesses: only 15 percent believed that BUGS had
directly increased the income and employment levels of their businesses; 35 percent
believed their businesses had improved but could not attribute this directly to BUGS
support; 28 percent thought there was no tangible impact yet, but felt more confident that



102
    US$120 at the time of the intervention.
103
    US$180 at the time of the intervention.
104
    Circa US$480,000.


                                              70
things would improve; 6 percent indicated their businesses had improved, but stated that
they would still have improved even without BUGS support; 6 percent indicated BUGS
support had no impact; and 11 percent did not give any response.

All in all, there was general uncertainty among beneficiary firms of the contribution of
BUGS support to the improvement of their business performance. A most likely cause for
this uncertainty could be because BUGS had not collected performance indicators of
these beneficiaries prior to BUGS support in order to compare those trends with the new
indicators after BUGS support. However, most beneficiary firms (62 percent) were
satisfied/very satisfied with the performance of their businesses; while very few (5
percent) were disappointed/very disappointed with the performance of their businesses.

Business Outcomes as a Result of BUGS Interventions
Inasmuch as beneficiaries are not certain with regard to BUGS contribution to the
positive shifts in their business activities (as noted above), it however becomes apparent
from the survey responses that the support provided by BUGS has yielded important
outcomes for some beneficiary firms.

According to the survey responses, BUGS support translated into improvement of skills
(68 percent of beneficiary firms), improvement of product quality (47 percent), increased
sales (44 percent), increased customer care (29 percent), increased advertisement (22
percent), new markets (16 percent), cooperation with other enterprises (16 percent),
substantial business expansion (16 percent), broader product range (14 percent),
investment technology (9 percent), increased exports (5 percent), increased outsourcing
of inputs (4 percent), different enterprises (4 percent) and reduced outsourcing of inputs
(1 percent). A notable outcome was the improvement of skills arising from training
activities. These skills were reportedly relevant and used on a daily basis, thereby
empowering the beneficiaries in the process.

The vast majority of large beneficiary firms were satisfied with the 50-50 cost-sharing
arrangement, and very few of them were asking for an alternative proportion. The vast
majority of these large beneficiary firms (96 percent) expressed interest to use BUGS
again. On the contrary, however, the majority of micro and small firms desired a higher
ratio figure on the grants side, a preferable ratio being a 75:25 cost-sharing
arrangement.

Analysis of BUGS Activities
Scheme Management
The initial thrust of the BUGS implementation process was hindered by a delay in
recruitment of key scheme personnel, such as the second BUGS advisor and Accountant
who were recruited one and two years respectively after project inception. This initial
incapacity, coupled with uncertainty amongst Malawian SMEs about BUGS services,
affected the scheme’s opportunity to capture the trust and confidence of the market from
inception.




                                           71
Generally, beneficiary firms were positive about the management and delivery
mechanism of the scheme. The period it took BUGS to process and respond to
applications was considered effective. Furthermore, BUGS provided the relevant
information requested by clients usually within a 10 working days period, which was also
considered effective. The approval process and communication was also thought to be
effective. However, a number of firms felt that the application process could omit
common information already in the hands of BUGS from previous applications when
applying for assistance a second or third time.

Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats
A main strength of BUGS was the independence it had from the project implementation
unit and the Ministry with regard to operations. BUGS was given the liberty to plan,
implement, monitor, implement and review operations, a significance that made it
possible for them to undertake processes, such as application approvals and financial
reimbursements, with effective speed. BUGS’s focus was to place the client first, by
giving priority to a fast and efficient service and by cutting down on bureaucracy.

The Scheme also realized the relevance of supporting micro-enterprises. The only
constraint is that this category was very limited with regard to the financial contributions
that it could make under the 50-50 matching grant, such that it couldn’t significantly take
advantage of facility in such a way as to make an impact on their individual enterprises.
Nevertheless, the fact that micro-enterprises comprise the bulk of the informal sector in
Malawi (Ministry of Industry, Trade and Private Sector Development, SME section)
cannot be dispelled. According to the Ministry, this category, if properly guided and
deliberately developed, can effectively provide the impetus for potential national growth
and competitiveness.

Adopting such a deliberate strategy which positions BUGS to deliberately guide and
develop micro-enterprises (and SMEs as well) through a series of graduation processes
to finally bring them into the formal sector at a well-organized level, would not only
develop Malawi’s business and industrial capacity, but would also develop it from an
indigenous view point. Furthermore, BUGS would become the primary planning tool for
business development in Malawi and would be the specialist entity with regard
spearheading MSMEs development, working hand in hand with government and the
private sector.

The Scheme has the potential to broaden its clientele base even presently because of its
proven delivery efficiency, speedy response to requests, and commitment to achieving its
objectives, therefore enabling it to quickly build credibility. For example, according to its
plans, BUGS had targeted to achieve 1,000 clients. But because of their aggressive
stance and the market demands for the service, they achieved 1,600 clients in the same
time-frame.

Another strength of BUGS was its flexibility to reduce the claims threshold from 50
percent to smaller amounts such as 10 percent, as long as invoices were submitted,
thereby enabling SMEs take advantage of the matching grant at affordable terms, though



                                             72
this didn’t reduce the 50 percent total contribution requirement. Beneficiaries who were
assessed as to be struggling, but whose projects had potential and viability, were allowed
to claim several times, an administrative arrangement designed to allow fluidity in their
cash flows.

One of the major weaknesses of BUGS was the inability to follow up on clients in
districts in the three regions where it had launched its program and conducted
workshops. After creating the awareness, BUGS did not undertake monitoring and
aftercare services as it should have. This would have been an opportunity for it to identify
key operational constraints amongst beneficiaries, undertake impact assessments and
further support requirements for beneficiary firms. Nevertheless, there were some
constraining factors for BUGS as well whose roots are in the program design. For
example, their very limited human resource outlay meant that an officer had to strategize,
go out and find clients, administer applications, process them, disburse funds, monitor
and review operations. It’s therefore understandable, with a view to the limited human
resource vis-à-vis the given workload, that they just couldn’t cope with providing
aftercare services particularly to far-away places.

There were opportunities for BUGS to create networks and synergies with various
organizations whose objectives were poverty alleviation and capacity building, which
were the ultimate over-arching objectives of the scheme. In both urban and rural areas,
BUGS had opportunities to synergize with District Development Committees, District
Councils, MASAF, business associations, cooperatives and other SMEs support
structures/institutions such as NABW, NASME, DEMATT and financial institutions in
order to create a self-sustaining, far-reaching and an integrated approach toward
business development and capacity building of the private sector in Malawi, insofar as
they couldn’t personally reach some of these places due to their limited human resources
(limited by the project design). Creation of local networks was critical for the
sustainability of the scheme.

A critical threat for the current and future of BUGS is the uncertainty on how the scheme
will continue to be funded. At the time of this assessment, funds for new grant agreements
were unavailable despite the fact that the scheme’s performance during the period of the
assessment was the highest it has been since the program commenced four years ago.

Relevance, Efficiency, Effectiveness, Impact and Sustainability of BUGS
Relevance
One of the goals of the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy 1 (MGDS 1) was to
make the private sector the engine of economic growth in the country. The BUGS aimed
to facilitate maximum possible growth and to increase productivity of private sector
firms. Consequently BUGS has, in a way, contributed to the development goals of GoM.
From a perspective of enterprises, BUGS was highly relevant. The Scheme was quick and
responded to BDS demand of MSMEs in the country. BUGS triggered reasonably
positive effects on firms’ growth and facilitated the creation of an environment for the
generation of employment (See Chapter Six).




                                            73
Efficiency
Efficiency of BUGS was assessed in terms of cost efficiency, operational efficiency and
synergy efficiency. The grants allocation was US$2.0 million which included US$0.2
million for the HIV element, while the total budgeted operating costs for the Scheme were
$2.05 million.

As at 31st May 2010 (mid-way of the project life) the scheme had disbursed a total of
US$475thousand which represented 24 percent of the total grants allocation. BUGs had
slower speed of progress at its start because of the constraints it faced in its inception
stages, such as limited human resource, lack of adequate publicity (because there was no
publicity budget in the design), among others. Nevertheless, businesses were becoming
aware of the advantages and benefits of BUGS support, such that the demand for its
services were increasing. Consequently, by January 2012, BUGS had dispensed 62
percent of the grant allocation.

From the side of operational expenditures, the amount disbursed by 31st May, 2010 was
$1.168 million representing 58 percent of the operational budget. The figure of operating
costs includes all vehicles and equipment for the scheme.

As indicated, BUGS had disbursed only 24 percent of the matching grant mid-way
through the project (May, 2010). This expenditure level though above 50 percent of the
total operational budget at its mid-term of operations, would be considered prudent at
this level, particularly considering the fact that BUGS had to undertake certain necessary
cost activities such as advertising and publicity, which were not included in the design.
This explains the relatively higher levels of expenditure on the operational budget during
this same period.

Secondly, another major reason for the low disbursement of monies – further to the
constraints mentioned above- was the bureaucracy involved for BUGS to access the
monies from BESTAP for both operations and grants. BUGS indicates that it would
always have to make request for funds to BESTAP, and BUGS always faced delays in
receiving the funds, which also affected their business; both administrative and
operational.

Effectiveness
Effectiveness of BUGS services was assessed with regard to results to final beneficiaries,
BDS service providers, and on institutional development and networking. Beneficiary
firms were satisfied with the way services were delivered. In several cases, BUGS
sensitized SMEs to the value of good consultancy, in a way that such firms continued to
contract services on their own after having seen the value of it.

Impact
BUGS had only operated for 2.5 years when this assessment was done. As such, the
impact of the scheme could not be effectively measured at this point, particularly with the
view that the project had take-off constraints during its inception period (elaborated



                                            74
above) such that optimal delivery of services delayed substantially. Nevertheless,
beneficiary firms grew in employment (31 percent), investments (109 percent) and
turnover (62 percent) during this same period. While these indicators could not be fully
attributed to the BUGS support directly, the general positive perception of the firms’
beneficiaries was good enough indication that the contribution of BUGS was felt.
Positive changes in employment, investments and turnover had direct positive effects on
the socio-economic livelihoods of the entrepreneurs’ families as well as the employees.
As firms grow, their contribution to taxation also grows, thus oiling the engine of growth
for the Malawi economy.

BUGS services had certainly facilitated sales growth among beneficiaries- sufficient
evidence for this was received during the field work. The assessment found that 54
percent of beneficiaries’ businesses had grown by 55 percent from 2008 to 2010. In terms
of employment and capital investment, BUGS beneficiaries projected that the two factors
would generally grow by 85 percent and 9 percent in the next three years respectively.
Had BUGS been in a better position to link recipients with investment finance, the
impacts might have been much greater. The positive assessment of impacts was a strong
point for BUGS.

BUGS supported some large scale businesses that needed initial support to develop
bankable business plans one of which received a loan of K150 million for a hotel
construction project in Blantyre. This is an example of a significant BUGS impact in
supporting start-up stages of large scale businesses.

Sustainability
Sustainability of BUGS heavily hinged on the availability of funds from development
partners as well as the ability of the beneficiary firms to achieve sustained growth.
BUGS’s dependence on donors was obviously not sustainable. However, if its services
could generate growth among the beneficiary firms, the skills gained will enable those
beneficiaries to grow. Integration of MSMEs into both the formal national and world
markets required support services that by their nature cannot be sustainably provided by
the beneficiaries themselves. BUGS should therefore be regarded as a role model for the
delivery of such services in Malawi.

A sustainable exit route for BUGS would have been to prepare Government of Malawi to
regard subsidies as an indispensable factor of a competitive MSME promotion system,
and to help them establish and manage such a system. This requirement called for
intensive coordination and cooperation with the World Bank, GoM and similar programs
of other donors - directed at both the micro and macro levels. It should also support
policy dialogue. BUGS' experience in raising competitiveness should be advanced in this
dialogue.

Conclusions
The following were the lessons drawn from the study:




                                           75
1. There is evidence that the Scheme contributed to the MGDS goal of economic
   development through wealth and job creation by promoting SMEs and, therefore, was
   in line with the GoM national development policies and those of the World Bank;
2. BUGS increased the capacity of MSMEs to use BDS consultancy services to a
   considerable level especially among medium and large-scale enterprises, and played
   an instrumental role in helping most MSMEs in accessing BDS;
3. As a result of the activities of BUGS it was concluded that there was demand for BDS
   support services in Malawi;
4. The 50 percent cost share grant concept, which was fairly new, was gradually being
   accepted by some MSMEs that were previously demanding higher reimbursement
   percentage;
5. There was urgent need to invest in developing skills in the BDS industry (business
   consulting skills);
6. The Scheme registered low grant uptake in the first two years of implementation due
   to lack of awareness among MSMEs and the longer than planned time that it took
   BUGS to be fully operational;
7. BUGS lacked capacity in monitoring progress and impact of support resulting in the
   scheme operating without timely feedback from beneficiary firms. This was obviously
   a deficiency of the project design because it did not provide for a budget line on
   aftercare services;
8. Operationally, BUGS demonstrated good operational efficiency through
   professionalism and fast turn-around time from applications and disbursements.
   However, inadequate staffing continued to pose a challenge to BUGS operations as
   demonstrated by the failure to effectively monitor progress of supported activities;
9. The scheme was well-designed in terms of operational proficiency, but its design
   ignored the promotional component particularly advertising through print and
   electronic media on regular basis. This again was due to exclusion of a budgetary
   line on publicity and promotion in the design. This exclusion resulted in the scheme
   missing enormous opportunities to reach more MSMEs.

Recommendations
In view of the foregoing lessons learnt, the following recommendations are presented as
a strategic way forward:

1. The next program should expand outreach to district level in collaboration with
   district councils in order to include participation of the MSMEs that are located away
   from the major towns and urban centers.
2. On monitoring and evaluation of the scheme’s activities, the assessment team
   presents the following options:
   a.The scheme needs an M&E Officer, specifically for the scheme. In addition, the
     scheme needs to develop a good M&E system. In order to establish this, suitable
     indicators measuring impact need to be formulated, together with methods of
     information collection that do not cost very much and that can be organized without
     effort.
   b.Maintain the current staffing but engage consultants to help with other tasks such
     as monitoring.


                                           76
3. Next project design should include a baseline study to be conducted at the beginning
    of the project in order to establish benchmarks that would be used in establishing
    targets and determining indicators for monitoring and evaluation.
4. The scheme needs to develop a more comprehensive package for MSME support
    other than support for BDS consultancies only. The package could include finance,
    technology, equipment, skills, bid security or equity contribution to SMEs accessing
    finance from the banks.
5. The evaluation team strongly recommends that government should lobby for and
    mobilize support and partners to establish a development bank or fund. This bank or
    fund will then receive bankable project proposals from SMEs that were supported by
    BUGS. The development bank or fund should offer an integrated and complete
    support process, from the diagnostics level up to financing the MSME.
6. MSMEs supported by BUGS and with growth potential should be deliberately drawn
    out of the informal sector and guided and grown into the formal sector in a
    systematic manner. This, along with business performance monitoring and
    evaluating, can be an on-going role of BUGS.
7. There may be a need to vary the percentage contribution that the scheme can make in
    the light of the size of the enterprise. With, for example, matching grant
    reimbursement percentage being larger for micro and smaller firms.
8. Any future BUGS project should only focus on BDS and matching grants and not
    include an HIV and AIDS components of the nature that was in the implemented
    project. However, in the event that the HIV/AIDS component needs to be
    incorporated, then it will need to be redesigned. Through subcontracting
    arrangements, the funds could be channeled to organizations that have expertise in
    the management of HIV/AIDS programs.
9. The implementation of the scheme’s interventions needs to be guided by deliberate
    strategic planning for systematic achievements.
10. Physical presence should be established in the northern region of Malawi in order to
    improve the outreach function of BUGS. This will also lead to efficient operations as
    the need for staff to travel from Blantyre to Mzuzu will be eliminated unless otherwise
    determined from time to time.




                                            77
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop105 Report and Results

In preparation for this evaluation, the team conducted stakeholder workshops with all
implementing organizations. Approximately 20 government officials participated in this
workshop including the Project Coordinator (PIU) and one representative of the MITPSD.
In the days that followed this workshop, the evaluation team met individual with the
implementing agencies, as well as other donors, private sector, and other stakeholders.

This was the agenda of the stakeholder workshop (replicated in Blantyre for agencies
with headquarters in Blantyre):

             World Bank’s Implementation Completion and Results Report
         BESTAP – Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project
                                Consultation Workshop
                              Lilongwe, 19 February 2013

                                             Agenda

      9:00-9:10     Introductory remarks                              MoIT
      9:10-9:30     Introductions and objectives                      Shadreck Ulemu,
                                                                      Francisco Campos, and
                                                                      Efrem Chilima
      9:30-10:30    Feedback form                                     Francisco Campos
      10:30-10:45   Coffee break
      10:45-11:30   Presentation of project and overview of results   Shadreck Ulemu
      11:30-12:30   Open discussion on specific topics                Francisco Campos
      12:30-13:45   Lunch
      13:45-15:00   Continuation of open discussion on topics         Francisco Campos
      15:00-15:15   Coffee break
      15:15-16:00   Continuation of open discussion on topics         Francisco Campos
      16:00-16:15   Next steps                                        Francisco Campos
      16:15-16:30   Closing remarks                                   MoIT, Shadreck Ulemu
                                                                      and Efrem Chilima


The workshop comprised detailed open discussion about the objectives, achievements,
and problems of BESTAP, including written feedback forms shared only with the
evaluator. The results of this feedback are summarized in the following graphs. The




105
   The Stakeholder workshop was organized together with Efrem Chilima, Senior Private Sector
Development Specialist in the Lilongwe office.



                                                78
graphs reflect the opinion of the interviewed counterparts in the government, not
necessarily of the evaluator or the institutions they belong to.

     Initial design of activity subcomponent is according to the needs back then
                                   12




                                                    3               3



                                  Yes            Partly            No


                        Timing of implementation of subcomponent
                                                                    9
                                                    8




                                    1


                                  Fast        Satisfactory       Slow


                               Implementation of subcomponent
                                                   10


                                    6


                                                                    2


                                Fully      Partially     Not
                             implemented implemented implemented
(the workshop did not include representatives from two subcomponents that were dropped at restructuring)




                                                  79
              Scope of subcomponent relevant during implementation

                                                         13




                                  4




                            Just as it was        Increase in scope


                   Subcomponent efficient (mostly based on cost)
                                                         8



                                  4




                                Yes                      No


The feedback forms that were completed before the open discussion included the
following questions:

       Design
       1.     Was the initial design of your component (in 2007) appropriate to the
       needs of Malawi back then?

       2.     How would you have designed your component differently knowing what
       you know now?

       3.   Do you think this component should not have been included in the project?
       Why/Why not?

       Implementation
       4.    Timing of implementation: was it satisfactory, slow, or fast? Why?



                                             80
       5.      Scope of implementation: was the design of your component implemented
       fully, partially, or not implemented? Why?

       6.      Do you think the project should have considered during implementation
       changes to your component? Which ones – increase in scope, decrease in scope,
       deletion? Of which type

       7.    Do you think your component could have been done more efficiently? At a
       cheaper cost? Why/Why not?

       8.    How was the World Bank performance during the implementation of your
       component? What went well and what were the problems?

       9.    How did the implementation of your component go? What went well and
       what were the problems?

       Final feedback
       10.    What were the main results / impacts of your component of the project?

       11.    What were the main lessons of implementing this component of the
       project?

       12.    How would you have done your component differently?

       13.     What are the main takeaways of your component for other WB projects in
       the future?

In the feedback forms, the government officials also provided individually the following
suggestions / recommendations:

Design:
    Need for better assessment and scope of the project;
    More involvement of beneficiaries in design stage of the project;
    Incorporate in project design more training of officials, get more placements,
      specialized rather than general training; more capacity building beyond training;
    Have only one donor per project to avoid problems of coordination;

Implementation:
    Coordination between implementing agencies is very important;
    Need to publicize the results; high-level sensitization through stakeholder public
      awareness consultation, workshops, use of media;
    Programs like BUGS should be all over the country in order to succeed;
    Minimize changes in the Bank team especially in the TTL role;
    Reduce time to process non-objections;
    Some activities take time and so the project should be longer or be followed by a
      new one;


                                           81
      Include in the project a Customer Service Center to respond to queries;
      Reduce the number of contracts with (international) consultants;
      Risks of the project team assuming that additional financing will arrive;
      Government needs to be bold to deal with slow moving components;
      Need for a champion at the higher level for implementation;
      Need to identify mechanisms of staff retention for ministries that have benefited
       from valuable specialized training;

In addition, the open discussions during the workshops provided additional insights into
the achievements and problems at all stages of the project that informed this evaluation.




                                            82
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower’s ICR:
The Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS) plans to achieve 6 percent
economic growth - the minimum necessary to have a meaningful impact on poverty
levels in Malawi. For this growth to be achieved, it is essential that the private sector
invests and creates jobs. The World Bank program under the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), was fully aligned with the country’s MGDS and focuses its support in four key
strategic areas: (i) improving smallholder agricultural productivity and integration into
agro-processing; (ii) putting in place a foundation for longer term economic growth
through improved infrastructure and investment climate; (iii) reducing vulnerability at the
household level, especially from HIV/AIDS and malnutrition; and (iv) sustaining
improvements in fiscal discipline, budget execution, and accountability of the civil
service.

The BESTAP project was an integral part of the CAS and contributes to achieving
Malawi’s development strategy by addressing the constraints to PSD related to the
business environment, inadequate enterprise skills and institutional support to PSD. Key
constraints that were the driving force into the development of the BESTAP included: (a)
The poor regulatory environment for business which impedes investment and constrains
PSD; (b) Weak contract enforcement and limited access to commercial justice; (c) Low
capacity in property rights institutions prevents the private sector from unlocking the
value of fixed capital; (d) the process of registering a company or business name is
subject to ineffective single centralized and manual system that was based in one
location; (e) A cumbersome business licensing regime; (f) Weak policy analysis,
formulation and implementation creating uncertainty in the private sector and; and (g)
Limited access to finance.

The project had four main components namely:
   (i)     Strengthening Property Rights Institutions and Business Facilitation;
   (ii)    Strengthening Private Sector Development Support Institutions and Services;
   (iii) Promoting Access to Finance and Productivity;
   (iv)    Capacity Building and Implementation Support.

Under component one; the project embarked on drafting 38 prioritized Economic Laws.
This was done to reduce a backlog of economic laws which were out dated and needed
wholesale revision. The project hired a full time experienced drafts person who was
dedicated to reviewing these selected laws in order to enhance the doing business
environment. Additionally, a High Court Commercial Division (HC-CD) was established
with two divisions (in Blantyre and Lilongwe). Both Court officials have been trained
and are able to undertake resolving of commercial disputes in 96 calendar days as
compared to 377 calendar days at the onset of the project. The Commercial courts are
hence fully functional.

Besides the regulatory environment, the project also aimed at improving capacity in
property rights institutions in order to enhance capabilities of unlocking the value of fixed



                                             83
capital. Two major reforms that were undertaken were the computerisation of the Land
registration process in all regions of the country and the computerisation of the business
registration process at the Department of Registrar General (DRG). Both systems have
been installed and commissioned.

Under component two, Strengthening Private Sector Development Support Institutions
and Services, the project had four sub-components. It aimed at building the necessary
capacity in institutions that provide essential services to the private sector in order to
improve quality and volumes of service delivery and also to provide policy direction on
private sector development issues. The project planned to merge the Malawi Investment
Promotion Agency and Malawi Export Promotion Council (MEPC) into the Malawi
Investment Trade Centre (MITC). The merger only took place in 2011 and the MITC bill
was passed in 2012. The initial target was therefore to reduce the number of days it takes
to issue out licenses from 185 to 30 calendar days. However, there was not much that was
done under the subcomponent as the MITC is not fully functional hence the indicator was
at 200 calendar days in the 2012 DBS report.

In addition, the Private Public Partnership (PP) was established to enhance the doing
business environment and the PPP Act was approved by June 2012. The PPP is being
implemented by the Privatisation Commission.

Under component two, the project also embarked on building capacity of the Ministry of
Industry and Trade (MITPSD). Several short courses were attended as well as two master
degree level courses were attained. Additionally, a Doing Business Unit was also
established at the MITPSD to handle all the reforms that the Ministry has been
facilitating with the assistance of the World Bank Doing Business team. Under
component two, the project provided support for the establishment of and operations of
the Public Private Dialogue (PPD) secretariat under the MCCCI. This forum was a
success as the private sector was provided with a podium to discuss matters that were
crucial to the growth of the industry in the country. A minimum of two forums were held
every year and they were attended by high level government officials at Minister Level.
Most resolutions that were made at these meetings were followed up by the secretariat
until they were implemented.

Under component three which aimed at improving access to finance, only one
subcomponent was pursued and this was the Business Growth Scheme (BUGS). The
other two subcomponents were discontinued at midterm as a result of policy changes by
the GoM. The BUGS was established to facilitate maximum possible growth in the
private economic activity through offering direct technical assistance to firms and/or; part
fund (50-50 matching grant) the use of outside expert or specialist. Business was slow at
the beginning of the Scheme so much so that by September 2010, the scheme had used
about 30 percent of the total allocation for grants but it had signed almost 735 cost share
grants. However, by 2011 the scheme had gained popularity and more businesses were
now aware of its existence hence the disbursement improved tremendously. By
December 2011, the scheme had signed 1,134 cost share grant agreement and re-
imbursement was at 63 percent totaling MK184, 014,092 (US$1,250,907).



                                            84
Overall, BUGS implementation has been satisfactory overall, over 1,300 cost share
agreements had been signed out of a target of 1000. However a study conducted in 2011
by an independent consultant was unable to establish causality and actual changes in
percentage growth between firms that have received assistance from BUGS and average
enterprises in the economy. Nevertheless, results showed that there was an increase in
sales revenue thus 44 percent of the firms, 68 percent improvement in skills, 47 percent
improvement in quality, 29 percent improvement in customer care among other
achievements.

General project implementation has been Satisfactory. Most of the project rating was
Satisfactory save for an Implementation Support Mission (ISM) that was conducted in
January 2009 which rated the project “Moderately Satisfactory? resulting from two
subcomponents under component two that were yet to commence implementation. This
resulted into project restructuring whose aims were; (a) to change the PDO; (b) dropping
two components that were idle and the introduction of two new activities (the review of
the Companies Act and improving the permit section of Immigration Department and; (c)
reallocation of funds to support the two new activities that were added to the project.

At the beginning of the project, the Doing Business Study (DBS) ranked Malawi number
110 out of 175 countries in terms of the overall enabling environment for business. It was
costing 134.7percent of GNI per capita to formally start a business. The project planned
to reduce this cost to 70 percent of GNI per capita. According to the DBS; the cost was
188.7 percent in 2008, 125 percent in 2009, 108 percent in 2010, 108.4 percent in 2011
and 90.9 percent in 2012. Even though the cost trend has reduced over the years, it is still
above the average Sub-Saharan Africa cost ceteris paribus. Nevertheless, BESTAP
cannot claim 100 percent causal linkages to the drop but it is clearly understood that the
project reforms have contributed to the drop.

Financial management was prudent throughout the project life time. For the IDA funding,
the project cumulatively utilized US$15,444,321.56 by June 2012 and the available
balance from the Grant was US$1,597.72 which represented a 99.99 percent
disbursement rate for the IDA resources. For EC funding, the project has disbursed
US$3,586,316.73 representing 96.85 percent and the balance was US$113,533.83.

Several challenges were experienced during the five years and some of the most notable
ones were:
   ? the depletion of IDA funds before project completion date which affected
       implementation of activities that are still in progress;
   ? lengthy procurement procedures;
   ? utilization of EU part funding took longer due to some administrative hitches
       beyond the control of the project;
   ? delays in government giving direction on two components that were later
       discontinued affected the implementation of these components and also overall
       performance of the project before midterm;




                                            85
?   Low absorption of BUGS grant fund by SMEs in the first three years of the
    project life
?   Delays in the development and implementation of an all-inclusive communication
    strategy at the MoIT which hindered public awareness of most of the reforms that
    have been done in the project.




                                       86
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The European Commission, which co-financed BESTAP, provided the following
comment on the draft ICR:
    Thanks for the report which is well written. It appears that our Finance and
     Contracts Section does not have comments at this point in time. One observation
     on the investment made through BESTAP vis a vis sustainability of the initiatives:
     ICT systems at the Registrar of Companies, Lands Registry among others. My
     reading of the report (especially page 35) indicates that the performance of
     Implementing Agencies was rated as Moderately Satisfactory. How committed
     are the agencies to keep the systems up and running? Are there long term
     maintenance plans or assurances from GoM that they will continue to maintain
     the systems? I know that these are side issues but critical to the objectives of
     BESTAP.




                                          87
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.     Project Appraisal Document, April 27, 2007
2.     Financing Agreement
3.     Administration Agreement with European Commission, 2008
4.     Grant Agreement with European Commission, 2011.
5.     Restructuring Paper 2010
6.     Restructuring Paper 2011
7.     Restructuring Paper 2012
8.     Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports – 2007-2012.
9.     Impact Assessment of the Business Growth Scheme (BUGS), Salephera
Consulting Ltd
10.    Learning from the Experiments that never happened: Lessons from trying to
conduct Randomized Evaluations, 2012.
11.    Business Registration Impact Evaluation Concept Note. 2011.
12.    Government of Malawi ICR, 2013.
13.    Doing Business Reports – 2007-2013.
14.    World Bank Country Assistance Strategy FY13-FY16.




                                         88
Annex 10. Other relevant information

a) Doing Business Indicators for Malawi (2007-2013)

2007




2008




                                         89
2009




2010




2011




       90
2012




2013




       91
b) Description of Afdb’s Competitiveness and Job Creation Support Project (2012-2017)




                                         92
Annex 11. Figures

         Figure 10 – Project’s summary theory of change (as approved)




        Figure 11 – Project’s summary theory of change (as restructured)




           Figure 12 – Time and Cost to register a business (DB 2013)




                                      93
                      Table 8: Steps in registering a business in Malawi

Procedure Processes                    Agency                           BESTAP        How?
                                                                        involvement
1             Initiate a company       Department of Registrar’s        Yes           IT system at
              name search.             General, Ministry of Justice                   DRG
2             Submit application       Department of Registrar’s        Yes           IT system at
              for a Certificate of     General, Ministry of Justice                   DRG
              Incorporation
3             Register for payment     Malawi Revenue Authority
              of income tax
4             Obtain a company                                          Yes           Business
              seal                                                                    registration
                                                                                      bill106
5             File an application      City Assembly                    Yes           Business license
              form to obtain a                                                        bill107
              license
6             Inspection of            City Assembly                    Yes           Business license
              premises for the                                                        bill108
              issue of the license
7             Pay license fee upon     City Assembly
              approval of license
              and obtain license
8             Apply for a              Occupational Safety, Health,
              registration of the      and Welfare Department of
              workplace                the Ministry of Labor
9             Inspection of            Occupational Safety, Health,
              premises                 and Welfare Department of
                                       the Ministry of Labor
10            Register for PAYE        Malawi Revenue Authority
              and fringe benefit tax
              by mail




106
    It will not be compulsory from now onwards.
107
    Proposal to reduce from 29 days to 7 days.
108
    Inspections are proposed to be done randomly rather than to every firm.


                                                    94
                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33440R1
                           32°E                                                                       34°E                                                              36°E




                                                                                              To

                                                       To
                                                                            Song
                                                                                 we
                                                                                             Mbeya             TANZA
                                                                                                               TA NZA NI
                                                                                                                      NIAA
                                                    Tunduma
                                                                               Chitipa
                                                                                                                                                                              MALAWI
                                                                                                      Karonga
10°S                                                                              Chisenga                                                                                                                            10°S

                                                                        To
                                                                      Muyombe
                                                                                        Nykia                   Chilumba
                                                                                      (2,606 m)
                                                                                             Chelinda         Mkondowe
                                                                        To
                                                                      Muyombe                            Livingstonia
                                                                                      Katumbe

                                                                                                   Rumphi

                                                                                                                 Ruarwe




                                                                                                 s.
                                                                                 Kafukule
                                                                                                        Mzuzu


                                                                                             Mtn
                                                                                   Euthini
                                                                                                                 Nkhata
                                                                                 NORT HERN
                                                                                 NORTHERN                         Bay
              ZAMBIA                                                                         a
                                                                                         Viphy


                                                                            Mzimba               Chinteche                 (MALAWI)

                                                                                                                  Lake Mala
12°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12°S
                                                                                             Luwawa

                                                                       To
                                                                     Lundazi
                                                                                              Nkhunga
                                                                                                                           wi

                                                                           Kaluluma

                                                                                                                  Nkhotakota
                                                                                      Kasungu
                                                                                                                                                               MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                      Ntchisi
                                                                            C E N T R A L
                                                                                                      Dowa                      Makanjila
                                                                           Bua




                                                 To              Mchinji
                                               Chipata                                                       Salima

14°S                                                                                             LILONGWE                                                                                                            14°S
                                                                                 Namitete                                                Monkey
                                                                                                                                         Bay                      To
                                                               To                                                                                               Cuamba
                                                           Furancungo                                            Dedza
                                                                                                                                                     Mangochi
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                             Ulongwe
                                                                                                                                         SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                              Cuamba
                                                                                                                                Ntcheu Balaka
                                                       MOZAMBIQUE
                           32°E
                                                                                                                                                      Machinga
                                                                                                                                             ire
                                                                                                                                            Sh




                                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                                                                                                 Neno                          Chilwa
       MALAW I                                                                                                  To                           Lirangwe
                                                                                                                                                       Zomba
                                                                                                               Tete
                                                                                                                        Mwanza                     Chiradzulu
       CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                         Blantyre                         Phalombe
       DISTRICT CAPITALS*                                               16°S                                           Chikwawa                    Mulanje        Sapitwa                                            16°S
                                                                                                                                                                 (3,002 m)
       REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                      Thyolo
                                                                                                                                                                          To
       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                 Liciro

                                                                                                                                N’gabu
       RIVERS                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                     Morire
       MAIN ROADS

       RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                     Nsanje
                                                                                                                                                                          0      20    40   60   80 100 Kilometers
       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

       REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                   0           20    40      60 Miles
                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information       To
       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                         Vila de Sena
       *District names are identical to the District Capitals.          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                   36°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY 2012
