The World Bank                                                       1818 H Street N.W.       (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT                Washington, D.C. 20433   Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                               April 28, 2011

            Honorable Ken Edward Kandodo, M.P.
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Lilongwe 3
            Republic of Malawi

            Honorable Minister:

                      Malawi: Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project
                                              (Grant No. H293 MAl)
                                     Amendment No.3 to Financing Agreement

                     We refer to the Financing Agreement (the Agreement), dated July 17, 2007, between the
            Republic of Malawi (the Recipient) and the International Development Association (the
            Association) for the above mentioned Project, and to a letter, dated March 11, 2009, from Mr.
            Randson P. Mwadiwa, Secretary to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance of the Recipient requesting
            specific amendments to the Agreement.

                   We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to your request and proposes to
            amend the Agreement in respect of the provisions below:

            1.      Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Project Description) to the Agreement is amended to read as
            follows:

                    "The objective of the Project is to improve the ease of business processes in Malawi."

            2.      Part A of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

                    1.       Streamlining the business regulatory framework

                    Strengthening the Recipient’s business regulatory environment by: (a) carrying out of a
                    diagnostic review of economic laws to identify those requiring revision on a priority
                    basis; (b) expanding the legal drafting section of the Ministry of Justice through the
                    recruitment of two draftspersons to draft revisions to identified economic laws; (c)
                    providing training to strengthen the legislative drafting capacity of the Ministry of
                    Justice, including short-term attachments in other common law jurisdictions; and (d)
                    carrying out of sensitization workshops on the Recipient’s economic laws legislative
                    reform program to key stakeholders, including parliamentary committees, civil society,
                    and the private sector.

                    2.       Improving access to commercial justice

                    Supporting the operations of the High Court’s Commercial Division by: (a) establishing
                    information systems for effective court case management and alternative dispute
                    resolution (ADR) services; (b) strengthening its institutional capacity through the
                    provision of training to judges, registrars, and ADR administrators, including short- term

                                           RCA 248423.   WUI 64145     FAX (202) 477-6391
                                             -2-                                  April 28, 2011


     attachments in other common law jurisdictions; study tours; and on-the-job training by
     foreign judges, registrars, and ADR administrators, attached to the Recipient’s High
     Court; and (c) carrying out private sector awareness programs on procedures for
     institution of legal actions in commercial cases.

     3.      Improving Business ,Land Registration, and Business Permit Issuance
             Services

     Strengthening the capacity of land and business registries to provide effective
     securitization and/or registration services, as the case may be, through:
     (a) computerization of the business and land registries; (b) restructuring of the operational
     and procedural framework of the business and land registries; and (c) supporting the
     operation of the Department of Immigration through upgrading the information
     technology infrastructure to establish an efficient process of issuance of business
     residency permits and temporary employment permits; and (d) provision of staff training.

     4.      Project Management and Coordination

     Provision of operational support to the key implementing agencies of BESTAP including,
     Ministry of Justice, High Court Commercial Division, Registrar General’s Office and
     Ministry of Lands) to facilitate implementation of their respective activities, as described
     in Parts (a) through (c) above.

3.   Part C (1) and C (3) of Schedule 1 to the Agreement are deleted in their entirety.

4.   Section III of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

     “Section III.   Procurement

     A.      General

     1.      Goods and Works. All goods and required for the Project and to be financed
             out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the
             requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
             and with the provisions of this Section.

     2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
             be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
             with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
             Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

     3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
             particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
             particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
             Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

     B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

     1.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
             2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
             of International Competitive Bidding.
                                                 -3-                                  April 28, 2011


        2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
                specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
                Bidding, which may be used for goods, works] and non-consulting services. The
                Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may
                be used:

Procurement Method
 (a) National Competitive Bidding may be used subject to the following
 additional procedures: (a) Regulation 80.3(b) (ii) of the Public Procurement
 Regulations permitting the consideration of unquantifiable criteria, such as
 local content, technology transfer, and managerial, scientific, and operational
 skills development, in the evaluation of bids shall not apply;
 (b) Regulation 80.4 of the Public Procurement Regulations permitting domestic
 preference shall not apply; (c) Regulations 164(i) and (j) of the Public
 Procurement Regulations permitting the division of contracts into small lots
 and the restriction of contracts to small enterprises, respectively, for purposes
 of promotion of the participation of small enterprises, shall not apply; and (d)
 bidding documents and contracts shall include the following provisions:
 (i) pursuant to paragraph 1.14(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, bidders,
 suppliers, and contractors are required to permit the Association to inspect their
 accounts and records and other documents relating to the bid submission and
 contract performance and to have them audited by auditors appointed by the
 World Bank; and (ii) pursuant to paragraph 1.14(a)(v)(bb) of the Procurement
 Guidelines, acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Association’s
 said inspection and audit rights are considered to be an obstructive practice
 within the meaning of paragraph 1.14 of the Procurement Guidelines.

(b) Shopping
(c) Director Contracting

        C.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

        1.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
                2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
                basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

        2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
                specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
                which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
                the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Method
(a) Leas Cost Selection
(b) Fixed Budget Selection
(c) Quality Based Selection
(d) Single Source Selection
(e) Individual Consultants
(f) Commercial Practices
(g) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification
                                               -4-                                 April 28, 2011


        D.      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
                The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
                Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
                by the Association.?

5.      The table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and is
replaced with the Annex to this Amendment Letter.

6.      A new paragraph (c) is added to Section IV B. 1 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement as
follows:

        “(c) under Category (7) until the grant provided by the Co-financier for the Co-financing
        of Part A the Project has been fully disbursed.?

7.      Existing paragraph 7 of the Appendix to the Agreement is renumbered to read as
paragraph 8 and the remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly. A new paragraph 7 is
added in the Appendix to the Agreement to read as follows:

        "7. "Department of Immigration" means the Recipient's department of immigration
        established within the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Public Security pursuant to the
        Immigration Act Chapter 15:03 of the laws of the Recipient, and includes any successor
        thereto."

8.      Paragraph 7 of the Appendix to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

        “7.     “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers?
        published by the Bank in May 2004, revised in October 2006 and May 2010.?

9.       Existing paragraphs 13 and 14 of the Appendix to the Agreement are deleted in their
entirety and the remaining paragraphs in this section are renumbered accordingly.

10.     Paragraph 21 of the Appendix to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

        “21.   “Procurement Guidelines? means “Procurement Guidelines? means the
        “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in
        May 2004, revised in October, 2006 and May 2010.?
                                               -5-                                 April 28, 2011



        All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, remain unchanged.

        Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by countersigning, dating, and returning
to us the enclosed copy of this letter. Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this letter
countersigned by you, this amendment will become effective as of the date of the
countersignature.

                                    Sincerely,
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                  By: /s/ Olivier P. Godron
                                      Olivier P. Godron
                                   Acting Country Director
                                Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe
                                        Africa Region



AGREED:

REPUBLIC OF MALAWI




By: /s/ Ken Edward Kandodo

Name: Ken Edward Kandodo

Title: Minister of Finance

Date: May 13, 2011




                                                                                           Annex
                                             -6-                            April 28, 2011


                                 Revised Disbursement Table


                  Category                    Amount of the           Percentage of
                                             Grant Allocated       Expenditures to be
                                               (expressed in      Financed (inclusive of
                                                  SDR)                   Taxes)
(1) Goods (Excluding Part A and C.2 of the           1,860,000            100%
Project)

(2) Works                                              30,000             100%

(3) Consultants’ Services (including                 5,900,000            100%
Finacial Audits), Training and Workshops
(Excluding Part A of the Project)

(4) (a) Matching Grants under Part C.2 of             800,000             100%
the Project

(4) (b) Operating Costs and Goods under               460,000             100%
Part C.2 of the Project

(5) Operating Costs under Part D of the               800,000             100%
Project

(6) Unallocated                                               0            n/a

(7) Goods, Consultants’ Services, Training            150,000             100%
and Workshops under Part A of the Project


TOTAL AMOUNT                                       10,000,000
                                         -7-                            April 28, 2011


C/w and bcc: Messrs./Mmes: J. Janiero (CTRFC); M. Mpundu (LEGAF)

bee:   Messrs./Mmes: M. Uy (AFTFP); M. Fuchs, S. Maimbo, B. Mtonya (AFTFP);
       Y. Amde, M. McCue, G. Soko (AFCMZ); C. Kamwendo, G. Chilambo, A. Jere
       (AFMMW); S. Mhone, S. Chirwa, L. Macadam (AFTPC); T. Chimaliro (AFTFM; IRIS .
