The World Bank                                              1818 H Street N.W.                 (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT       Washington, D.C. 20433             Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                       U.S.A.                             Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                CONFORMED COPY


                                                                                                 April 28, 2011

        Honorable Ken Edward Kandodo, M.P.
        Minister of Finance
        Ministry of Finance
        Lilongwe 3
        Republic of Malawi


                                  Re:     European Community Grant for the Co-financing of Part A of the
                                          Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance
                                          Project (Grant No. TF091620)
        Excellency:

                In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Republic of
        Malawi (“Recipient?), I am pleased to inform you that the International Development Association
        (“World Bank?), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by European Community under
        the Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Trust Fund, proposes to extend to
        the Recipient a grant in an amount not to exceed two million seven hundred and forty four
        thousand Euros (EUR 2,744,000) (“Grant?) to co-finance Part A of the Business Environment
        Strengthening Technical Assistance Project (“BESTAP?), as such the same is described in the
        Financing Agreement signed between the Recipient and the International Development Association
        dated July 17, 2007, as amended from time to time (“Financing Agreement?). The Grant is
        provided to the Recipient on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement
        (“Agreement?), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the financing of the project
        described in the Annex (“Project?). This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for
        which the World Bank receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
        Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the
        Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds.

                 The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter
        into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement.
         Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to
the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement
shall become effective as of the date of the related amendment to the Financing Agreement
setting out the restructuring of BESTAP becomes effective.

                                  Very truly yours,
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                    By: /s/ Olivier Godron
                                       Olivier Godron
                  Acting Country Director for Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe
                                        Africa Region


AGREED:

REPUBLIC OF MALAWI



By: /s/ Ken Edward Kandodo
      Authorized Representative

Name: Ken Edward Kandodo

Title: Minister of Finance

Date: May 13, 2011



Enclosures:

    (1)       Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds,
              dated July 1, 2008
    (2)       Disbursement Letter of even date herewith, together with World Bank
              Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006




                                               2
                                                                       EC Grant No. TF 091620
                                                                                     ANNEX



Article I

Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out
of Various Funds dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions?) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions, the Financing
Agreement, or in this Agreement.

                                           Article II
                                       Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of the Project is to improve the ease
of business processes in Malawi.

         Part A of BESTAP, as set out in the Financing Agreement, consists of the following
activities:

        “Part A:    Strengthening Property Rights Institutions and Business Facilitation

        1.      Streamlining the Business Regulatory Framework

        Strengthening the Recipient’s business regulatory environment by: (a) carrying out of a
        diagnostic review of economic laws including the companies act to identify those
        requiring revision on a priority basis; (b) expanding the legal drafting section of the
        Ministry of Justice through the recruitment of two draftspersons to draft revisions to
        identified economic laws; (c) providing training to strengthen the legislative drafting
        capacity of the Ministry of Justice, including short-term attachments in other common
        law jurisdictions; and (d) carrying out of sensitization workshops on the Recipient’s
        economic laws legislative reform program to key stakeholders, including parliamentary
        committees, civil society, and the private sector.?

        2.      Improving Access to Commercial Justice

        Supporting the operations of the High Court’s Commercial Division by: (a) establishing
        information systems for effective court case management and alternative dispute
        resolution services; (b) strengthening its institutional capacity through the provision of
        training to judges, registrars, and ADR administrators, including short- term attachments
        in other common law jurisdictions; study tours; and on-the-job training by foreign judges,
        registrars, and ADR administrators, attached to the Recipient’s High Court; and
        (c) carrying out private sector awareness programs on procedures for institution of legal
        actions in commercial cases.


                                               3
4
        3.      Improving Business, Land Registration, and Business Permit Issuance
                Services


        Strengthening the capacity of land and business registries to provide effective
        securitization and/or registration services, as the case may be, through:
        (a) computerization of the business and land registries; (b) restructuring of the operational
        and procedural framework of the business and land registries; (c) supporting the
        operation of the Department of Immigration through upgrading the information
        technology infrastructure to establish an efficient process of issuance of business
        residency permits and temporary employment permits; and (d) provision of staff training.

        4.       Project Management and Coordination
        Provision of operational support to the key implementing agencies of BESTAP including,
        Ministry of Justice, High Court Commercial Division, Registrar General’s Office and
        Ministry of Lands to facilitate implementation of their respective activities, as described
        in Parts (1) through (3) above.

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines?); (c) this Article II; and (d) the
following provisions of the Financing Agreement: Section 3.01. and Schedule 2 (Section I: A
(Implementation Arrangements (to the extent applicable to Part A of the Project)); B (Anti-
corruption); C (Project Implementation Manual); D (Annual Work Plans and Budgets); and
Section II.A (b) and (c).

2.03. Donor Visibility. (a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such measures as the
World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the European Community’s support for
the Project.

2.04. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. (a) The Recipient shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of Part A of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with
the World Bank, as set out in Section II.A (b) of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the World
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

        (b)     The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished
to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.

2.05. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
Conditions.

        (b)      The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for Part A of
the Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
World Bank.


                                                 5
          (c)     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months
after the end of such period.

 2.06.   Procurement

         (a)     General. All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
 of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
 referred to in:

                 (i)     Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
                 Credits? published by the World Bank in May 2004, revised in October 2006
                 and May 2010 (“Procurement Guidelines?), in the case of goods;

                 (ii)    Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
                 Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in
                 May 2004, revised in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines?) in
                 the case of consultants’ services; and

                 (iii)   the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the
                 procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for
                 the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
                 paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan?).

         (b)      Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this
 Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
 particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines,
 or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

         (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

                 (i)    Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods shall be
                 procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive
                 Bidding.

                 (ii)   The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
                 may be used for procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the
                 Procurement Plan: (A) National Competitive Bidding (subject to modifications in
                 subparagraph (iii) below)); (B) Shopping; and (C) Direct Contracting.




                                                6
                (iii)    National Competitive Bidding may be used subject to the following
                additional procedures: (a) Regulation 80.3(b) (ii) of the Public Procurement
                Regulations permitting the consideration of unquantifiable criteria, such as local
                content, technology transfer, and managerial, scientific, and operational skills
                development, in the evaluation of bids shall not apply; (b) Regulation 80.4 of the
                Public Procurement Regulations permitting domestic preference shall not apply;
                (c) Regulations 164(i) and (j) of the Public Procurement Regulations permitting
                the division of contracts into small lots and the restriction of contracts to small
                enterprises, respectively, for purposes of promotion of the participation of small
                enterprises, shall not apply; and (d) bidding documents and contracts shall
                include the following provisions: (i) pursuant to paragraph 1.14(e) of the
                Procurement Guidelines, bidders, suppliers, and contractors are required to
                permit the Association to inspect their accounts and records and other documents
                relating to the bid submission and contract performance and to have them audited
                by auditors appointed by the World Bank; and (ii) pursuant to
                paragraph 1.14(a)(v)(bb) of the Procurement Guidelines, acts intended to
                materially impede the exercise of the Association’s said inspection and audit
                rights are considered to be an obstructive practice within the meaning of
                paragraph 1.14 of the Procurement Guidelines.

        (d)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

                (i)     Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services
                shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-
                based Selection.

                (ii)    The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’
                services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan:
                (A) Quality Based Selection; (B) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (C) Least Cost
                Selection; (D) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (E) Single Source
                Selection; (F) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (G) Commercial
                Practices.

         (e)      Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Procurement Plan
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Association’s Prior Review. All other
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.




                                                7
                                         Article III
                                 Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table. The table specifies the
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
(“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

           Category                   Amount of the Grant                   Percentage of
                                           Allocated                     Expenditures to be
                                      (expressed in Euros)                    Financed
                                                                         (inclusive of Taxes)
     (1) Goods, consultant                   2,744,000                100%
         services, Operating
         Costs, and Training
         and Workshops

     TOTAL AMOUNT                           2,744,000



For the purposes of this paragraph, the terms:

         (a)      “Operating Costs? means the incremental operating costs arising under the
Project on account of Project coordination, implementation, and monitoring activities undertaken
by the Project Implementation Unit (“PIU?) including office supplies, utilities, office rentals, and
vehicle operation and maintenance costs, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants,
as set forth in the annual work plans and budgets submitted by the Recipient to the World Bank
for its approval from time to time.

        (b)      “Training and Workshops? means the reasonable cost of: (i) training materials
and rental of training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel, accommodation and per
diem of trainers and trainees; and (iii) any other expenses related to training (including study
tours and workshops) to be carried out under the Project; and

3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature
of this Agreement by the Recipient.

303.    Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard
Conditions is December 31, 2011.




                                                 8
                                           Article IV
                             Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

4.01. Recipient’s Representative. The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02
of the Standard Conditions is its Minister of Finance.

4.02. Recipient’s Address. The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

       Ministry of Finance
       P.O. Box 30049
       Capital City
       Lilongwe 3
       Malawi

       Cable:          Telex:            Facsimile:

       FINANCE         44407 MI          265-1-789173
       Lilongwe


4.03. World Bank’s Address. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the
Standard Conditions is:

       International Development Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable:                   Telex:                  Facsimile:

       INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.         64145                                                  (MCI)




                                               9
