                                                                                                     96395
Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project                               April 13, 2012




 Easing Doing Business Processes
 The Malawi Experience


Overview
Since 2007, the Business Environment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project (BESTAP)
interventions collectively improved access to commercial justice, with cases that used to take
close to a year being resolved in three months. Issues on property rights also improved with
time taken to register a property or business reducing by more than 60 percent. More than
1,000 small and medium enterprises accessed technical advice and services that helped them
improve their productivity and sales.


Challenge
Private sector development in Malawi is constrained by
                                                                  More Results
several factors such as unreliable electricity, shortage of
skilled personnel, expensive and restricted access to credit,

                                                                  96
and a difficult regulatory environment. As a result, private
domestic and foreign investment remains inadequate to
accelerate economic growth. BESTAP therefore sought to
address some key issues that make doing business in               Number of calendar days, down
                                                                  from 337, taken to settle
Malawi difficult and not conducive for private sector             commercial disputes
development. The major problems were the 40 laws that
were identified as difficult for business; the manual and
lengthy processes for registering businesses and property;
the absence of technical advice required to spur growth of
firms, and the weak public institutions needed to support the
private sector. All these problems were already militating
                                                                  1,134
                                                                  Firms supported with
against Malawi’s vision of a private-sector led economy           consultancy expertise to help
when the country finalized its first growth and development       them become more competitive

strategy in 2006.

Approach                                                         MORE INFORMATION

One of the medium-term outcomes in Malawi's Country                Malawi Business Environment
                                                                   Strengthening Technical
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2007-11 is an improved
                                                                   Assistance (BESTAP) Project
climate for private business. BESTAP is one instrument by
which the International Development Association (IDA)              Malawi Ministry of Industry and
sought to achieve this outcome. Several interventions in this      Trade
project contributed to improving the doing business climate        Scotland Malawi Business group
in Malawi. Laws affecting doing business were reviewed to          replicating BUGS
reduce legal constraints in business processes. Institutions       Dairibord Malawi
were set up to facilitate processes, for example the
establishment of a Commercial Division at the High Court,           Country Website
and merging of investment and export promotion agencies. In         Country Brief
other existing institutions, such as the Registrar-General’s
                                                                    Country Assistance Strategy
Office, systems were improved in order to offer better
services for business registration. A formal dialogue forum         Data and Statistics
between government and the private sector was also
instituted to facilitate exchange of information on improving
the business climate. In addition, a program was established
to support small- and medium-scale enterprises with
technical advice to improve productivity and competitiveness.
 

Results

      Reduction in time taken to settle commercial disputes from 337 calendar days in 2007 to
      96 in 2011.

      Time to register a business reduced from 88 days in 2010 to 49 days in 2011.

      Reduction in time taken to register a property title from 118 calendar days in 2007 to 49
      calendar days in 2011.

      Backlog of review of laws affecting the cost of doing business reduced from 40 to 22
      bills. As of June 2011, 10 bills were enacted into law. Out of 40 laws that were
      identified as having provisions that negatively affect doing business, 38 were fully
      reviewed and 10 enacted into law by December 2011. Eight more bills were with the
      cabinet by the end of 2011.

      A total of 1,134 firms were supported with consultancy expertise to help them become
      more competitive. Many of these firms have explained how productivity and sales
      improved after BUGS technical assistance.

      A Public-Private Sector Dialogue Forum was established under the Malawi
      Confederated Chambers of Commerce and Industry to promote dialogue between
      government and the private sector on issues relating to improving the business climate
      in Malawi. More than 10 dialogue forums were held by 2011, attended by cabinet
      ministers and senior government officials.

Bank Contribution
BESTAP was a US$18.7 million project, of which US$15 million was contributed by IDA, and
the balance by the European Union. The project started in 2007 and was implemented over
five years. The project had four major components: strengthening private property rights
institutions and business facilitation at a cost of US$3.4 million, while strengthening private
sector development support institutions and services cost US$3.7 million. Promoting access to
finance and productivity enhancement also cost US$3.7 million, and the balance was for
capacity building and implementation support.
 
Voices


     We write to sincerely appreciate the support you gave us in
   order to develop our markets. Although 2009 was a difficult year
   for us we still managed to double our exports compared to
   2008. This is in line with Malawi’s development agenda of
   becoming a producing and exporting country. We have unlocked
   some opportunities in Mozambique and Zimbabwe…!  
                                       — Ms. Theodora Nyamandi,
                          Managing Director for Dairibord Malawi.
                 The Business Growth Scheme (BUGS) component of
               BESTAP offered technical advice and matching grant
           support for business growth to 1,134 private companies.
                   Dairibord Malawi Limited is one of the firms that
         benefitted from technical advice on developing its markets.



Partners
The European Union (EU) and IDA supported the Government of Malawi in implementation of
the reforms.  The implementing agency, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, collaborated with
various other agencies that implemented different components. For example, the Malawi
Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry coordinated the Public-Private Dialogue
Forum and the High Court of Malawi handled the commercial court aspects. The EU made a
financial contribution of US$3.7 million.

Toward the Future
The project established institutions and systems that are expected to remain sustainable, such
as the Commercial Division of the High Court. The revised laws would also encourage
government to appreciate the value of business-friendly laws for any new laws that might be
enacted. Computerized systems for registering businesses and land are also expected to
continue as the norm because these systems are a significant improvement in a digitized
world. The BUGS program was beneficial and subsequently, the Scottish Malawi Business
Group began replicating the program in Malawi, but on a commercial basis. This program aims
to provide expert consultancy services to Malawian business to cover a shortfall from local
consultants in Malawi.
