Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2738-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
March 10, 1980
Tis doeuent hs a rstrited disribton and may be used by reciplents only in the performnce of
their offcil dt. Its eonteots may ot otherwise be discsed without World Bank authoriatfon.



Currency Equivalents
(as of mid-December 1979)
US$ 1.00                                    JD 0.294
JD  1.00                                    US$ 3.40
Financial Year  =  Calendar Year
Glossary of Abbreviations
CVDB    -    Cities and Villages Development Bank
JEA     -    Jordan Electricity Authority
JVA     -    Jordan Valley Authority
MMRA    -    Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
MOH     -    Ministry of Health
MOPW    -    Ministry of Public Works
MVLF    -    Municipal and Village Loan Fund
NPC     -    National Planning Council
NRA     -    Natural Resources Authority
WSC     -    Water Supply Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiary:          Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB)
Amount:               US$10.0 million
Terms:                17 years, including 4 years of grace at an interest
rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:      The Borrower would relend the entire loan proceeds
to CVDB on the same terms as the Bank loan, and bear
the foreign exchange risk. The CVDB would on-lend the
funds at the following interest rates:
Municipalities   Villages
--------Percent---------
Productive Projects                        8.0            6.5
Public Utility Projects                    7.5            6.0
Social Infrastructure Projects             7.0            5.5
Project
Description:         The project would help to establish CVDB as a development
bank for municipalities and villages, and provide a line
of credit to finance eligible subprojects over a two year
period. It also includes a technical assistance component
to (i) train CVDB staff; (ii) undertake a study of the
ways and means of increasing productive projects in local
communities; and (iii) provide an advisor to assist
CVDB's management. The project would result in improved
public services to meet basic needs in water supply,
health, and education and improved economic infrastructure
in villages and municipalities, thus reaching some of the
poorer segments of Jordan's population. The main project
risk is the complexity of coordination between the large
number of institutions and sectors involved. Specific
actions have been included in the project implementation
plan to minimize substantially this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Calendar Year               1980    1981    1982    1983
-------…-US$ million--------
Projected Total Financial Requirements:    9.56    10.37   12.48   14.21
Financed by:
Internal Cash Generation                      1.09      1.02    1.12    1.29
Loan Collections                              4.01      3.91    5.30    5.85
Increase in Share Capital                     2.89      2.58    2.35    2.17
Central Bank Loans                            0.99      0.00    0.00    2.69
IBRD Loan                                     0.58      2.86    3.71    2.21
9.56    10.37   12.48   14.21
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY         1981     1982      1983      1984      1985
---------------US$ Million--------------
Annual          1.9       3.4      2.9       1.6       0.2
Cumulative      1.9       5.3      8.2       9.8      10.0
Consulting Services:  Provision has been made for: (a) a Project Advisor
for 2 years; and (b) Consultanting services for about
10 man-months for various studies. These services are
estimated to cost on average about $8,000 per man-month.
Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 2763-JO dated March 3, 1980.
Map:                    IBRD No. 14569



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR
A CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Bank loan of US$10.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
to help finance a Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) project. The
loan will have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 8.25 percent per annum. The Government would relend the entire proceeds of
the loan to CVDB on the same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan" (No.
1738-JO, dated January 9, 1978) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 19, 1978. An updating economic mission visited Jordan in July 1978
and its findings are reflected in this report. Another updating economic
mission visited Jordan in February, 1980 and its report is under preparation.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Jordan is a small country of 2.2 million people (East Bank).  Due to
limited natural resources, the structure of output and employment is service
and trade-dominated. The economy's service-oriented character is reflected in
Jordan's increasing role as a provider of manpower to neighboring countries
and a regional tourist center, particularly since the disruptions in Lebanon.
Jordan has benefited from its regional setting in terms of foreign exchange
inflows in the form of external grants, workers' remittances, exports and
tourism revenues. However, costs of this role to the economy have included
the outflow of scarce skilled labor and the persistence of a domestic saving
constraint due to the high defense expenditures and the impetus towards higher
consumption.
Recent Developments
4.        During the Three-Year Plan (1973-75), GDP grew at about 5 percent
per year. Agriculture stagnated as a result of droughts while the industrial
sector increased its share of GDP, mainly due to increased production and
prices of phosphates and rapid growth in manufacturing output, encouraged by
higher domestic and external demand. Since the country embarked on a Five-
Year Development Plan in early 1976, overall economic growth has accelerated.
1/   Part I of this report is essentially identical to paragraphs 2-16 of
the President's Report No. P-2654-JO on a Loan for the Third Education
Project, dated November 26, 1979.



-2-
Between 1976 and 1978 GDP at market prices grew at about ten percent in real
terms led by a strong growth in agriculture (13 percent per year) and industry
(15 percent per year). Investment expenditures, which averaged 28 percent of
GDP in 1973-1975, have accelerated further reaching 41 and 39 percent of GDP
in 1977 and 1978. This strong upward trend in investment expenditure reflects
the increased availability of foreign resources in the form of grants, foreign
loans and labor remittances.
5.        The increased investment efforts have led to rapidly rising imports
and widening trade deficit. Nevertheless, the overall balance of payments
position has remained strong owing to a significant increase in exports in
recent years, increased earnings from tourism and workers' remittances and the
large inflow of foreign aid. Despite a decline in earnings from phosphates,
between 1975 and 1978, export earnings increased by 18 percent per year (in
current dollar terms), mainly due to an increase in manufactured good exports,
aided by higher prices of fruit and vegetable exports. Imports in the mean-
while rose by 25 percent per year, owing mainly to an increase in raw material
and capital good imports. In 1978, however, the growth of imports slowed down
to about 12 percent over 1977 due to the completion of important projects.
During the period 1975-1978 Jordan's net earnings on services almost tripled
to over $400 million in 1978 as a result of increasing inflows of remittances
(encouraged by the climate of financial stability in Jordan and the boom in
real estate) and earnings from tourism. Inflow of foreign aid, although
fluctuating from year to year, continues to play a key role in the Jordanian
economy. After peaking to over $500 million in 1977, foreign aid declined to
about $330 million in 1978. Following the Baghdad Conference in November
1978, inflows are rising again and are likely to amount to a record high of
about $1.0 billion in 1979. The level of gross reserves increased substan-
tially to $923 million at end-1978 (equivalent to about 7 months of imports),
partly because of foreign exchange appreciation.
6.        Although the Government budget is still heavily dependent on foreign
grants, some improvements have been made in expanding domestic revenues,
which accounted in 1978 for about 52 percent of total revenues as compared to
42 percent in 1975-1977. The increase in domestic revenues was mainly due to
increased custom duties, a higher tax rate on corporate profits and improved
collection of personal income tax. Despite a doubling of domestic revenues
and the sizeable inflow of foreign grants over the period 1975-1978, the
budget deficit increased considerably as a result of stepped up government
expenditure on both the recurrent (68 percent increase) and capital (95
percent increase) accounts. Partly also as a result of the decline in foreign
grants, the budget deficit was at a record high of JD 114 million in 1978 (20
percent of GDP).
7.        The domestic budget deficit, combined with accelerated private
sector credit led in 1978 to a 36 percent growth rate in domestic liquidity
(compared with 23 percent in 1977). The acceleration in the growth of private
sector credit reflected a policy decision to encourage economic activity
following the slowdown experienced in 1977. The inflationary impact was
somewhat mitigated both by the propensity of Jordanians to hold cash balances
and the tendency of commercial banks to hold liquid reserves at higher-than-
required levels. Large amounts of credit were directed to the tertiary sector



-3-
and revived construction activities. Industrial investment has in the past
relied largely on retained earnings or direct support from Government but is
now relying more upon financial resources mobilized by the banking sector.
Also, the Amman Stock Exchange has been instrumental in mobilizing financial
resources for industrial enterprises since its inception in January 1977. Its
activities were reinforced by the creation of a Jordan Securities Corporation
with IFC's assistance. Lending to industry amounted to 11 percent of all
outstanding credit at the end of 1978.
8.         The cost of living index increased by nearly 15 percent per year
during 1973-76.  The rate of increase since dropped to 11 percent in 1977 and
7 percent in 1978. Inflationary pressures resulted from both domestic and
external factors. Some causes of inflation were external, such as the sharp
rise in the prices of imported goods, strong demand for Jordanian goods and
services by neighboring countries, growing inflows of workers' remittances,
and the speculation in real estate which accompanied the influx of refugees
and businesses from Lebanon.
9.         Partly as a result of the continuing migration of Jordanian labor
to neighboring countries and partly because of rapid economic growth, the
labor market has now reached a situation of full employment except in the
rainfed areas and pressures have emerged on the demand side leading to an
import of labor from abroad. About 200,000 Jordanians are estimated to
be working abroad, compared to total domestic employment of about 400,000.
The Government has been trying to raise female participation rates, which
are low, by opening up employment opportunities for women and by expanding
child care facilities. It has also given increased emphasis to education,
particularly to vocational training, and has provided a broad range of social
services to attract Jordanian labor. There is a growing propensity, in both
private and public sectors, to increase the capital intensity of projects in
order to economize on labor.
Medium-term Prospects
10.        The primary objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) are
to diversify the productive structure of the economy, increase overall growth,
and improve tax and export revenues in order to reduce dependence on external
assistance and achieve self-reliance in the long run. This involves exploit-
ing phosphates and potash resources for export; extending irrigation in the
Jordan Valley to increase agricultural production, particularly of high-value
fruits and vegetables for export where Jordan enjoys a comparative advantage
in the region; promoting production of export-oriented consumer goods indus-
tries; and strengthening infrastructure in the transport and services sector
to serve regional development needs and earn additional foreign exchange.
During the first three years of the Plan the investment targets were attained.
The overall implementation ratio at the end of 1978 was about 95 percent of
the original targets in real terms. Social issues are being given increasing
attention by the Government, which is currently formulating a program of
action to assist low income groups and rural areas.



-4-
11.       The medium-term prospects for growth are good, with a likely GDP
growth rate of 6-8 percent per year in real terms. Overall investment is
likely to stay at a high level but may decline as a proportion of GDP from
the exceptionally high rates experienced in 1976-1978 (about 40 percent of
GDP). Jordan's development and export prospects strongly depend on the
implementation of several major projects (phosphate rock mining, potash,
phosphatic fertilizer, oil refining and the Maqarin Dam) and the vitality
of the private sector. Phosphate production may rise to 5 million tons per
year in the next few years. If the proposed projects are implemented on
time and if the marketing is carefully arranged, exports of potash and phos-
phatic fertilizer should also yield substantial foreign exchange earnings
in the early eighties. In industry, priorities have been well established
and the Government encourages industrial development. In view of Jordan's
stock of entrepreneurial skills and the market for medium-scale industrial
products in neighboring countries, the private sector should continue to show
healthy growth. Further improvements in packaging and marketing, however,
are needed for export promotion and improved productivity will be needed to
offset the rise in labor cost. In agriculture, the focus of the Government is
correctly on developing irrigated agriculture. But increased attention will
need to be paid to rainfed agriculture where there is a need to strengthen the
weak institutional and coordinating machinery, reduce fragmentation of land-
holdings and to improve research and extension services.
Development Issues
12.       To achieve gradually the Government's objective of self-sufficiency,
domestic resource mobilization will need to be increased. The Government
can restrain current expenditure growth to some extent particularly by reduc-
ing fuel subsidies which have risen considerably with the rise in oil prices.
But given the need to compete with high wages and salaries offered to trained
personnel in neighboring countries, greater possibilities lie in increased
revenues rather than in controlling expenditures. Tax collection efforts need
to be further increased, and consideration should be given to reducing the
high tax holidays and exemptions of business and individuals. There is also
some scope for increasing taxes on real estate and on non-essential imported
consumer goods. Domestic demand management and financial controls need to
be improved, both to restrain inflationary pressures and to improve domestic
resource mobilization. Efforts are currently being made to issue a variety
of debt instruments to cover financing gaps in the Government sector and to
develop a secondary market for these issues. Similarly, the Government is
encouraging public and private corporations to issue bonds so as to raise
capital directly from the public.
13.       Labor migration to neighboring countries is expected to continue
and is likely to cause shortages of labor in Jordan, particularly skilled
labor. The Government has correctly decided to focus on expanding the supply
of labor rather than attempt to restrict its outflow; a 30 percent outflow of
skilled labor is assumed in the education and training plans. The low partic-
ipation rates, particularly among women, and the underemployed labor in the
rainfed areas represent potential for increased labor supplies. In order to
retain scarce skilled labor in Jordan, the Government is also providing low



cost housing, and various subsidies to reduce the price of imported food
staples and has recently raised civil service salaries. However, most of the
subsidies are provided with insufficient selectivity in terms of recipients,
and the Government is reviewing this policy.
14.       Because of their size, Jordan's prospective investments in several
major projects (phosphate mining, phosphatic fertilizer, potash and Maqarin
Dam) require especially careful resource planning. These investments (exclud-
ing the Maqarin Dam, for which works will not start before 1981) are expected
to amount to about one-third of total investment during the remainder of the
current Plan period. Although these projects will tax Jordan's physical,
human, and financial resources, they are net foreign exchange generating
projects exploiting Jordan's rather meager natural resources. So far, Jordan
has been successful both in phasing investment so as not to burden its foreign
exchange resources unduly, and in obtaining substantial amounts of external
assistance on relatively concessional terms for the first three above-mentioned
projects; financing of the large investments related to the Maqarin Dam and
associated irrigation and water supply development is currently under discus-
sion.
External Assistance
15.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 1978
was $825 million ($1,594 million including undisbursed). Of this total, loans
from bilateral sources amounted to $533 million ($1,052 million including
undisbursed) and accounted for 65 percent. Outstanding debt to IDA and the
IBRD was $54.0 million ($120.7 million including undisbursed). Since the bulk
of Jordan's foreign debt has been secured on concessional terms, the debt
service burden remains low. Debt service payments amounted to $53.9 million
in 1978, equivalent to 6.6 percent of total exports of goods and non-factor
services.
16.       Assuming an improvement in domestic resource mobilization (para.
12), Jordan would still need substantial external capital inflows to finance
its development efforts apart from the large external budget support devoted
chiefly to military expenditures. Judging from past trends in commitments by
donor countries, Jordan is expected to mobilize loan commitments from USA,
Federal Republic of Germany, and UK totalling $75-$90 million annually at
relatively concessionary terms (2-3 percent interest rate, 20-40 years
maturity, with 4-10 years grace) in addition to substantial loans from Arab
multilateral and bilateral sources (para. 5). Jordan can also absorb more
borrowings on commercial terms, mostly in suppliers' credits. The debt
service ratio is projected to reach 9-10 percent in the early eighties, and
should remain manageable if the Government continues to exercise the restraint
it has shown in the past.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Jordan has received three Bank loans totalling $69 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $83.8 million (net of cancellations) of which
nine have been fully disbursed. War and local disturbances adversely affected
the pace of economic activity after 1967, and Bank Group lending only resumed
in mid-1971. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of
December 31, 1979, disbursements amounted to 73 percent of appraisal estimates
and 74 percent of revised estimates. The IDA credits have mainly financed
physical and social infrastructure projects, such as education, highways,
water supply and sewerage, power and irrigation. With Jordan having attained
a stage in its economic development where it can be considered creditworthy
for Bank lending, and having reached a GNP per capita level ($560 in 1976)
that exceeded IDA limits, the Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project,
approved in March 1978, was the last project financed through an IDA Credit.
IFC has made four investments in Jordan with total commitments of $31.9
million, consisting of a $244,000 equity participation and a $1.6 million loan
to Jordan Ceramic Industries Limited (JCI) in 1974, a $3.1 million equity
participation in the promotion of a phosphatic fertilizer project in 1975
including a subsequent $20 million loan and $3.6 million additional equity
participation in June, 1978 (see para 19), a $667,000 equity participation and
a $2.5 million loan to a brick company in December 1978 and $600,700 equity
participation in the Jordan Security Corporation in June 1979. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of January 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Unlike past Bank Group assistance to Jordan which was largely for
infrastructure projects, recent and proposed lending is also directed toward
large export oriented projects with foreign exchange earning potential for
which the Bank Group has closely cooperated with the Government in project
preparation and in mobilizing large external financial assistance. In addi-
tion, the Bank Group is assisting the Government in implementing its social
objectives, as enunciated in the Five-Year Plan (1976-80). These objectives
are likely to receive even greater emphasis in the next Five-Year Plan under
preparation, that aim at improving the income and living standards of the
rural and urban poor.
19.       In line with these overall objectives, the Bank Group provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock production, and preparing a comprehensive program for a second
phase of development of the irrigation and agricultural potential of the
Jordan Valley and for water supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An Engineering
Credit was made in FY1975 to help prepare the project for potash production
from the Dead Sea via solar evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the
Executive Directors on September 5, 1978. In addition, IFC has assisted the
Government in preparing a phosphatic fertilizer project to produce diammonium
phosphate (DAP) and triple superphosphate (TSP) for which an IFC loan of $20
million and equity participation of $3.6 million were approved by the Executive
Directors on June 27, 1978, in addition to IFC's equity participation of $3.1
million in 1975 (see para 17). Support for the Government's social objectives
is to be provided by the third loan for education that was approved in December



-7-
1979, this project and a proposed urban development project. Also under
preparation are the Jordan Valley development (Stage II) project, a water
supply project to expand and improve water distribution in several intermediate
cities and small towns and a rainfed agriculture project to help small farmers
increase their yields through improved inputs of seeds and fertilizer as well
as through better cultivation practices.
20.       The Bank was Executing Agent for a two-year UNDP Planning Assistance
Project based in the National Planning Council which was completed in December
1975., It was also Executing Agent for a UNDP-financed study of the manufactur-
ing industry and industrial estates in Jordan. The first phase, consisting of
a study of the industrial sector, was completed in December 1975. The second
phase, consisting of studies of specific industries and proposals for the
establishment of industrial estates during the next Plan period was completed
in December 1976. The establishment of industrial zones and supporting ser-
vices for light manufacturing would aim at regulating the concentration of
economic activity in the Amman-Zarqa area which has strained the infrastruc-
ture facilities and caused severe pollution. The Bank has also assisted
the Government in initiating a study for the promotion of export oriented
industries. The Bank may also help the Government to formulate a plan for
the rational use of scarce water resources, engage consultants for studying
Jordan's extensive oil shale resources and in manpower planning.
21.       At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Jordan's external
public debt was estimated at 7.5 percent, and its share in debt service was
0.9 percent. By 1980 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt
service are expected to be about 7.0 percent and 0.5 percent respectively.
PART III - Municipal and Rural Sector in Jordan
Administrative Structure
22.       Administratively, Jordan (East Bank), with a total population of
2.2 million,is divided into five Governorates; Amman with 1.2 million inhabi-
tants, Balqa, 140,000; Irbid, 600,000; Karak, 115,000; and Ma'an 55,000. The
Central Government is represented in each Governorate, by a Governor. He is
assisted by sub-governors in areas which are designated-as sub-governorates.
Beneath the sub-governorate are two lower levels of Government: the district
and the sub-district.
23.       Local governments in Jordan fall into one of three categories --
municipalities, incorporated villages, and unincorporated villages. Any
village which has a minimum of 1,000 residents, 100 houses and 180 taxpayers,
can request to be incorporated by the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
(MMRA), it would then be eligible to elect a council. Villages which do not
meet these minimum requirements remain unincorporated. Any village having a
council for five years and attaining a population of 2,500, becomes entitled
to municipal status. There are 500 unincorporated villages with a total
population of about 200,000; 200 incorporated villages with a population of



- 8 -
about 250,000; and 88 municipalities, excluding the city of Amman (population
726,000), with a population of about 940,000. The only city of significant
size outside the Amman Urban Region is Irbid, with a population of 175,000.
Overall, 60 percent of the population reside in towns of 20,000 inhabitants
or more.
Local Government Finance
24.       Unincorporated villages have no power to tax and their access to
external financial assistance is minimal. They were not eligible for loans
from the former Municipal and Village Loan Fund (MVLF), 1/ but would benefit
from its successor the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) if they
form part of a legal entity of a grouping of unincorporated villages (see
para. 33). They are directly under the authority of the local governor or
sub-governor. Basic services such as school buildings are financed mainly
with Government grants.
25.       Incorporated villages are given the right to tax.  Revenues are
generated from capitation, livestock, agricultural production and property
taxes and trade license fees. Incorporated villages are also eligible for
a share of a National Trust Fund, set up by the Government for the benefit
of local authorities. Revenues for the Trust Fund are derived from an
allocation from custom and excise taxes, In 1978, each incorporated village,
regardless of size, obtained JD 6,000 from the Trust Fund. Revenues for
Municipalities are generated from taxes akin to those collected by incorporated
villages as well as property taxes, assessed at 17 percent of estimated annual
rental value, and from the Trust Fund. Proceeds of the Trust Fund are allo-
cated to municipalities mainly on the basis of population.
Provision of Basic Services
26.       The provision of basic facilities such as water supply, schools,
electrification, and health is mainly the responsibility of the technical
ministries with some participation from the local communities.
(a) Water Supply. The Natural Resources Authority (NRA) is
charged with prospecting and developing water resources; the
Amman Water and Sewerage Authority is responsible for
distributing the water in the Amman municipality while the
Water Supply Corporation (WSC) is responsible for supplying
water elsewhere in the country. According to an MVLF sur-
vey in 1977, only 50 percent of the municipalities and
incorporated villages had access to an adequate water supply
system; it was estimated that about JD 6-9 million would
1/   MVLF was established in 1966 to provide loans to municipalities and
incorporated villages for development of infrastructure and social
services. MVLF was transformed into CVDB on January 1, 1980. CVDB would
take over and expand the activities of its predecessor (see para. 31).



-9
be needed to supply water adequately to the remaining communi-
ties. WSC usually provides water in bulk, while the local
community finances its own distribution system. The MMRA
prepares the design and cost estimate for the system, in
collaboration with WSC, and forwards the loan application to
CVDB. However, coordination between WSC and MMRA is inade-
quate. Completed projects often deteriorate prematurely due
to poor operation and maintenance by local communities and
expected water revenues fail to materialize because of poor
metering and system losses. At the Government's request,
the Bank is currently assisting efforts to reorganize the
Water Supply sector and to prepare a National Water Master
Plan.
(b) Education. The Ministry of Education (MOE) sets the prior-
ities in the sector and has satisfactorily guided its
development. MOE provides staffing and maintenance for
schools and the municipality or village is responsible
for providing suitable building. MOE also finances school
construction in 13 cities, which are the seats of the
Governorates or sub-Governorates and all educational facili-
ties beyond the ninth grade. CVDB provides loans to the
other villages or municipalities for school buildings; debt
service is shared equally between the village or municipality
and MOE. Enrollment for primary and preparatory cycles is
expected to increase at about 15,000 per year outside the 13
cities, requiring investment in school buildings of about JD
1.4 million per annum. Larger amounts would be required to
eliminate the need for rented buildings which are often
inadequate. Other difficulties in extending schooling
outside the towns, are due to the reluctance of teachers to
live in rural areas and limited transport facilities for
pupils attending school outside their villages.
(c) Health. Jordan has 21 hospitals or comprehensive health
centers, 45 basic health centers and 266 village clinics
under the Ministry of Health. The emphasis in both health
centers and village clinics is on nutrition and preventive
medicine. The most serious problem is the shortage of
doctors and nurses and paramedics willing to work in the
rural areas. The Ministry of Health (MOH) is preparing a
National Health Plan for 1981-85 for establishing health
facilities throughout the country. One of the main objec-
tives of the Plan is to provide a village clinic for every
village with more than 500 inhabitants at an estimated
investment cost of over JD 1 million per annum. CVDB
provides loans for health centers and clinics and MMRA
supervises their execution.



- 10 -
(d)  Electricity.  Except for Amman and Irbid which are being
serviced by private companies, the Jordan Electricity
Authority (JEA), is responsible for the development of the
power sector in Jordan. JEA has prepared a national rural
electrification plan to be completed by 1982, which would
provide 70 percent of the total population (and 50 percent
in the rural areas), with access to electricity from the
national grid. Village distribution systems included in the
Plan that have been approved by MMRA are installed, operated
and maintained by JEA. In the past, the low voltage
distribution network was financed by villages with loans
from MVLF, but JEA has now assumed this responsibility and
CVDB will discontinue financing in the sector.
(e) Transportation. The Ministry of Public Works is responsible
for constructing and financing primary and secondary arterial
roads. A USAID-financed Road Masterplan (1978-82) concluded
that the secondary road system, including the rural collector
road network is deficient. Government authorities estimate
that 1,800 km of non-asphalted rural roads need to be con-
structed or rehabilitated at a cost of JD 11-15 million.
However, since only rural roads within the limits of the
municipalities and villages are left for these communities to
finance and build, CVDB's contribution to financing of the
rural road system would be marginal.
(f) Productive Projects. An MVLF survey indicates that outside
Amman, only municipalities have carried out productive
projects (i.e. commercially viable), consisting of a few
commercial centers, a vegetable market, cattle markets and
slaughter houses, carparks and one industrial estate. Their
limited number is evidence that productive projects are
difficult for local authorities to promote and implement as
they require entrepreneurship and unlike projects in other
sectors, have no single readily identifiable institutional
sponsor for either financing or technical assistance. CVDB,
in cooperation with other agencies and specialized credit
institutions, expects to fill this gap.
Issues and Problems
27.       The most serious constraint affecting the development of local
communities, is the limited number of employment opportunities which has
exacerbated rural-urban migration. One of the most effective ways of slowing
down migration and improving the economic prospects of small communities is
through the implementation of productive projects. A study of ways and means
to implement productive projects included in the technical assistance component
of the proposed project, is designed to identify economically beneficial proj-
ects that could be executed by the municipalities and villages. CVDB will
also assume a much more active role in promoting productive projects and
increasing the proportion of its lending for productive projects. Meanwhile,



- 11 -
there is still substantial work to be done in providing minimum social and
public infrastructure projects to many of these communities where much of the
poorer segments of Jordan's population reside.
28.       The lack of basic infrastructure services accounts for the generally
underdeveloped conditions and limited economic opportunities in the rural
areas. Municipalities or villages must have an approved master plan before
they can borrow from CVDB for water supply, or road improvements. However,
delays in preparation of the master plans often occur due to staff shortages in
MMRA. Through its appraisal work in each sector, CVDB would complement MMRA's
planning efforts and strategy. A need exists for coordinating the planning
efforts now being undertaken by the technical agencies for the provision of
infrastructure and other public services to the rural areas. The Government
plans to adopt a common framework for all regional planning efforts and has
established in late 1979, a Directorate of Regional Planning in the MMRA. This
new agency will set general guidelines, objectives and criteria for regional
development, prepare master plans for urbanized areas and devise planning and
development legislation and regulations.
29.       CVDB may, in the future, be able to cooperate with the three special-
ized credit institutions in assisting the development efforts of municipalities
and villages. These are the Agricultural Credit Corporation which makes long
and medium term loans to private farmers and agricultural companies, the Indus-
trial Development Bank which finances privately-owned industrial projects and
industrial estates, and the Jordan Cooperative Organization which coordinates
and promotes the cooperative movement. The Development Credit Council, estab-
lished in 1977, is composed of representatives of the Government and the credit
institutions and is expected to foster this cooperation.
The Bank's Role in the Municipal and Rural Sector
30.       Even though the Bank's direct assistance to small villages and
municipalities has heretofore been limited, the Bank Group has been intimately
involved in the development and provision of infrastructure services in Jordan.
The Bank Group has provided one IDA credit for improvement of irrigation
infrastructure and one to the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan, partly
to assist small scale manufacturing firms. Two IDA credits and one Bank loan
have been provided to the education sector to strengthen technical and voca-
tional education and increase the participation of women-in the labor force,
four IDA credits to the water supply sector to help improve the water avail-
ability and sewerage services in Amman and other towns and two IDA credits and
one Bank loan for power generation, transmission and distribution. However,
the main beneficiaries of Bank Group assistance so far have been the larger
municipalities and urban centers. Through the proposed CVDB project the
Bank would further extend its involvement in the provision of infrastructure
services to reach the smaller municipalities and villages.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed project represents a rather unique attempt for the
first time in Jordan, to improve the quality of life through provision of
minimal social and public infrastructure in villages and smaller municipal
communities and to increase the level of incomes through support for produc-
tive projects in those communities, through the mechanism of a development
bank specifically established for that purpose. In 1977, the Government
requested Bank assistance in organizing and vitalizing the Municipal and
Village Loan Fund (MVLF) established in 1966, to provide loans to municipali-
ties and villages for the development of infrastructure and social services.
However, MVLF never built up an independent appraisal capability and it never
became an effective development institution. After a series of missions to
Jordan and extensive dialogue with the Government, the present project has
evolved, culminating in the transformation of the MVLF into the Cities and
Villages Development Bank (CVDB) as of January 1, 1980. The National Planning
Council and MVLF prepared the project with Bank assistance. The CVDB project
was appraised in June 1979 and negotiations were held in Washington D.C.
between February 25-29, 1980. The Jcrdanian delegation was headed by Dr.
Hanna Odeh, President of the National Planning Council (NPC) and consisted of
Dr. Hisham Zagha of the NPC and Mr. Maher Waked, Acting General Manager of
CVDB. A staff appraisal report entitled "Jordan - Loan to the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan for the Cities and Villages Development Bank Project" Report
No. 2763-JO dated March 3, 1980, is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
The Sub Borrower (CVDB)
32.       Its Objectives and Functions.  CVDB was established on January 1,
1980 as a public sector development bank to assist the villages and municipali-
ties in the preparation and implementation of projects designed to: (i) meet
the basic needs of the less developed segments of the population; (ii) raise
the living standards of rural and urban groups, by providing improved social
and public infrastructure services; (iii) create employment opportunities
through the implementation of productive projects; and (iv) foster the integra-
tion of less developed areas in the national development. CVDB would also
provide local authorities with training and technical assistance to improve
their project implementation capability and managerial effectiveness. To this
end, CVDB is empowered make long term loans to municipalities and villages or
entities owned by them, to take equity participations, guarantee loans and to
manage funds made available by other sources to its borrowers. In addition,
it would play an active promotional role in the identification and execution
of productive projects, for which the entrepreneurial skills are lacking in
the local communities. CVDB will continue as trustee of the Trust Fund, like
MVLF, its predecessor.
33.       Legal Basis.  The CVDB was established by law as the legal successor
of the MVLF. Eligible borrowers are municipalities, incorporated villages,
and entities such as corporations owned by eligible borrowers. In its present
form, the CVDB Law has two ambiguities. Firstly, the definition of CVDB's



- 13 -
capital structure is inadequate; and secondly, the authority of the general
manager needs to be more clearly defined. The present poor delineation
between issued and authorized capital will not affect CVDB's ability to raise
capital in the near future and thus would be clarified by an amendment to be
enacted by December 31, 1981. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations
that a provision would be added to CVDB's Executive Regulations, to strengthen
the authority of the General Manager. Issuance by CVDB's Board, of such
Regulations is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Following approval of a local Administration law
expected around mid-1980, unincorporated villages could be grouped and estab-
lished as legal entities thereby making them eligible for allocations from the
Trust Fund and to borrow from CVDB. In the interim, any economically viable
unincorporated village, irrespective of size, can appeal to the relevant
Government authorities to be incorporated.
34.       Ownership.  CVDB has an authorized capital of JD 10 million ($34
million), with 75 percent earmarked for the Government and 25 percent for
municipalities. At its formation, CVDB capital was JD 5.6 million ($19
million), transferred from the MVLF and held by the Government. Over the next
several years, the Government would increase its share subscription by JD
200,000 ($680,000) per year. The municipalities would also invest in CVDB's
equity at the rate of JD 400,000 ($1.36 million) per year. Agreement on the
level and timing of equity subscriptions was reached during negotiations
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The CVDB Law stipulates that the
shares held by municipalities should earn a dividend which has been assumed in
the financial projections at 10 percent per annum. However the Government
will not receive any dividends on its equity share.
35.       Management and Organization.  CVDB is managed by a Board of 9
Directors comprising the Minister of MMRA (chairman), the General Manager
(Vice-Chairman), three representatives from technical Ministries, one repre-
sentative each from the Central Bank and the National Planning Council and two
representatives from the municipalities. The Board will determine CVDB's
overall policy, and approve all loans and other financial assistance. Also,
the Board may set up ad hoc committees of CVDB Directors and staff members to
which it may delegate some of its power to carry out specific tasks.
36.       CVDB's chief executive is the General Manager, appointed by decree
of the Council of Ministers upon recommendation of the Minister of NMRA.
The General Manager would implement CVDB's general policy and exercise any
prerogative authorized by the Board or delegated by the Chairman. A qualified
Acting General Manager, who has been closely associated with the preparation
of the project for the last year and who has considerable commercial banking
experience, was appointed in February 1980. To carry out its mandate effec-
tively, CVDB would need to strengthen its management structure with develop-
ment banking expertise. Consequently, the recruitment of an advisor is
necessary. A suitable expert has been identified and funding is included in
the proposed Bank loan. During negotiations, the appointment of an advisor
experienced in development banking was discussed and agreement reached on his
terms of reference. He is to be appointed by July 31, 1980 (Section 2.01(c)
of the draft Project Agreement).



- 14 -
37.       CVDB would be organized along functional lines with four Depart-
ments: Economic and Technical Affairs, Loan, Finance, and Administration.
The Economic and Technical Affairs Department would be responsible for project
appraisal, and supervision of project implementation. The Loan Department
would prepare annual lending programs, financial and operational projections
after coordinating sectoral and regional plans with specialized agencies and
ministries. It would also assist CVDB's borrowers in determining their needs
and project priorities and formulate overall lending programs for each com-
munity. The Finance Department would be responsible for loan disbursements
and repayments and for preparing annual borrowing programs and managing CVDB's
short-term portfolio. The Administration Department would handle personnel
matters and provide support services. In addition, it would later contain an
Evaluation Unit to monitor CVDB's progress in meeting its goals and objectives.
Agreement on CVDB's organization structure was reached during negotiations.
CDVB will be required to maintain its organization structure to ensure the
efficiency of its operations (Section 2.01 (b)(ii) of the draft Project
Agreement).
38.       CVDB has agreed with the Bank on the appraisal standards and criteria
for implementing projects in the major sectors in order for them to be eligible
for financing under the proposed Bank loan (Section 2.03 (a) of the draft
Project Agreement). For productive projects CVDB would be involved throughout
the entire project cycle and all aspects of project appraisal including
technical and financial viability, market and economic merit would be carried
out by CVDB, with assistance from consultants, if necessary. Productive
projects would be required to earn an appropriate financial rate of return.
For public utilities and social infrastructure projects, CVDB would review the
appraisal reports of the specialized agencies to ensure that the proposed
project has priority in the light of financial resources available to the
community from the Trust Fund and other sources. In reviewing road projects,
CVDB would further ensure that the design criteria is appropriate and that the
necessary financing has been provided and arrangements made for future mainte-
nance. For water supply and sanitation projects, CVDB would review the design
and cost recovery system and ensure that reasonable access to the service is
available to all members of the community, and that adequate provisions have
been made for the operation and maintenance. In the case of school buildings
and clinics and other social facilities, CVDB will ensure that the sizing of
the facility is appropriate and that the possibility of sharing these facili-
ties with the neighboring communities have been examined where appropriate.
39.       The entire staff of MVLF has been transferred to the CVDB to perform
primarily the same accounting functions as they did at the MVLF. CVDB manage-
ment is in the process of recruiting professional staff including financial
analysts, engineers and economists. The progress in identifying staff was
reviewed and agreement reached on a timetable for hiring most key staff. All
the professional staff would be employed by September 30, 1980 (Section 2.01
(b)(i) of the draft Project Agreement). CVDB's Board has adopted a new salary
scale and benefits comparable to that paid by the Central Bank of Jordan and
this benefit package is considered adequate to attract qualified staff. The
new salary scales would need to be approved by the Council of Ministers but in
the interim, CVDB is empowered to offer contracts to potential employees with
benefits in accordance with the new scale. CVDB would maintain at all times
a salary scale adequate to recruit and retain qualified staff (Section 2.01(b)
(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
40.       Training would be an important component of this project in view of
the limited development banking experience that is likely to be available
within CVDB. The Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (IDB), which is a
well-run development bank and recipient of an IDA Credit, has agreed to
provide short-term advisory services to CVDB on terms to be arranged between
the two institutions. Part of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be
available to meet the foreign exchange cost of training for CVDB staff. Short
visits by the Bank's water supply, roads and educational technical staff are
also anticipated. It was agreed that CVDB would establish the training
program not later than September 30, 1980 (Section 2.01(d)(i) of the draft
Project Agreement).
41.       CVDB's Operations.  From its inception in 1966 through the end of
1978, the MVLF, CVDB's predecessor, made about 1,200 loans totalling JD 13.8
million ($46.9 million) distributed as follows: 45 percent for school build-
ings, 18 percent for electricity, 11 percent for water supply and the remain-
ing 26 percent for other purposes such as rural roads, sewerage systems,
health clinics, public buildings and productive projects. The proportion of
MVLF resources lent to villages as compared with municipalities rose steadily
from 3 percent in 1966 to 30 percent in 1978. Prior to 1979, about 10 percent
of MVILF loans were made for projects in the Wiest Bank through special budgetary
allocations. However, lending to the West Bank stopped in 1979 and repayment
of outstanding loans there will be provided by the Government.
42.       Projected Operations.  Between 1980-83, CVDB is expected to finance
aboul: 165 projects per annum, with subloans amounting to about $60,000 on
average. It is expected that it will finance its operations from repayments
against loans made so far by its predecessor, MVLF, the proposed Bank loan,
and borrowings from the Central Bank. CVDB expects yearly contributions
to equity of JD 200,000 ($680,000) from the Government and JD 400,000 ($1.36
million) from municipalities (para. 34). CVDB's loan portfolio is projected
to increase from JD 7.5 million ($25.5 million) to JD 13.5 million ($45.9
million) in 1983. The proportion of loans to villages would increase from 30
percent to 40 percent. Compared to MVLF's net profit in 1978 of JD 324,000
($1.1 million) CVDB's profits are projected to be about JD 193,000 ($656,000)
in 1981 (2.8 percent on equity), as a result of a sharp increases in interest
and operating expenses which will be unavoidable in the early years to build
up a new and effective organization and the build up of provisions for doubtful
debts commencing in 1979. In 1982 and 1983, however, profits are projected to
increase to JD 243,000 ($826,000) (3.2 percent of equity) and JD 326,000
respectively ($1.1 million) (3.8 percent of equity). The low return is due to
CVDB's high equity base which would facilitate future expansion of operations
and enable it to withstand possible fluctuations in business. Debt equity
ratio will remain below 0.5:1 through 1983. CVDB's financial position is
expected to be sound.
43.       It has been agreed that, following loan effectiveness, CVDB will
submit to the Bank for review and comment, the appraisal report of the first
two subprojects in each of the major sectors (water/sewerage, education,
roads, productive projects) to ensure that appraisals are being done to
acceptable standards (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). After
this review and provided the appraisals are being satisfactorily carried out,



- 16 -
projects would be approved under the usual DFC free limit system. The free
limit for water supply and roads projects would be $50,000 and for education,
productive and other projects, $85,000 (Section 2.02 (c) of the draft Project
Agreement). To complement the free limit system, CVDB has agreed to submit to
the Bank for review and comment at least one appraisal report in each of the
major sectors every six months during the commitment period of the loan
Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). CVDB would only amend its
policy statement after reaching agreement with the Government and the Bank
(Section 2.08 (b) of the draft Project Agreement). To ensure an equitable
allocation of CVDB's resources among its large number of potential borrowers,
the policy statement limits CVDB's total exposure in a single project or
borrower to 1.0 percent and 10 percent respectively of CVDB's equity.
44.       Interest Rate.  The MVLF charged a flat interest rate of 5.5 per-
cent to municipalities and 4.5 percent to villages regardless of the nature of
the projects. As part of MVLF's transformation, the Government has decided that
CVDB should introduce a structure of interest rates, which would distinguish
between sectors and the subprojects that would be financed. CVDB would charge
an interest (including a 1 percent commission), of 8 percent for productive
projects, 7.5 percent for public utility projects and 7 percent for social
infrastructure projects located in municipalities. Comparable rates for proj-
ects located in the villages are 6.5 percent, 6.0 percent and 5.5 percent
respectively. Loan maturities will range between 10-15 years, depending
on the sector, including grace period of up to 2 years. The actual inflation
rate in Jordan was 7 percent in 1978, and is estimated at 12 percent in 1979
and projected at 10 percent in 1980 and 8 percent in 1981 and 1982. Infla-
tion rates in Jordan are expected to range between 6 and 7 percent for the
years 1983-85; hence, on the average, interest rates charged by CVDB would
be between 0.5 and 1.5 percent negative in real terms, for subprojects in
municipalities and 1.5 percent lower for those in villages. However these
proposals are significant and reasonable when compared to the previously
prevailing rates charged by MVLF and to similar projects in most LDCs which
are financed by Government grants. Low interest rates for social infra-
structure projects are considered acceptable since these projects satisfy
basic needs, with a preponderance of beneficiaries belonging to lower income
groups. Besides, it is important to recall that the approach is a rather
novel one, where Jordan provides social and public infrastructure to communi-
ties having the less affluent segments of its population on the basis of loans
whereas in many countries, such facilities are provided by governments as
public sector projects. However CVDB interest rates for productive projects
are comparable to those charged by the Industrial Development Bank (9 percent),
the Agricultural Credit Corporation (7 percent) and by the Jordan Cooperative
Organization (6.5-7.0 percent). Furthermore, the Government intends to review
CVDB's interest rate structure after two years of operations to see whether it
is appropriate in the framework of cost of resources and the interest rates
being charged by other credit institutions in Jordan.



- 17 -
45.       Accounting System and Audit.  A double entry accounting system is
being implemented by CVDB with the assistance of a local consulting firm.
CVDB would maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor the progress
of the project, its operations and financial condition (Section 3.01(a) of
the draft Project Agreement). CVDB's accounts will be audited annually by an
experienced accounting firm acceptable to the Bank and the audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
CVDB's fiscal year (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Terms of Proposed Loan
46.        The proposed $10 million loan would be made to the Government.  It
would be relent to CVDB on the same terms and conditions, under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement whose ratification is a condition of Loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). This on-lending procedure
which is appropriate for a new institution so recently established as CVDB
will not affect the institutional objectives of the project or introduce undue
interference with CVDB management. Furthermore, the likelihood of it being
able to raise funds on its own in the near future is not high and initially it
would have to rely on the Government for this. $9.5 million of the loan would
be earmarked for subproject lending. This is expected to cover 50 percent of
CVDB's subloans for eligible subprojects, and is roughly equivalent to their
foreign exchange content. An eligible subproject may be located anywhere in
Jordan provided CVDB can appraise it thoroughly and supervise it throughout
the life of its loan. The remaining $500,000 would be used to finance a
technical assistance program consisting of $200,000 for staff training,
$100,000 for a study of productive projects and $200,000 to finance the
foreign exchange costs of hiring an advisor and short-term consultants to
assist with the appraisal of specific subprojects. The Government proposes to
seek UNDP or other multilateral financing for CVDB's training program and
Advisor and would prefer to finance the study from the budget. After the
Government's plans are finalized and if satisfactory alternative financing
does become available, the Bank would reallocate the unneeded proceeds of the
loan earmarked for the technical assistance component for use in subproject
lending by CVDB. The Government has agreed to secure the financing required
by September 30, 1980 (Section 2.01 (c) of the draft Project Agreement). In
all, about 10 man-month of consulting services would be required at an estimated
average cost per man-month of about $8,000. The loan would be committed in
about 2 years, and be fully disbursed in FY85. The final date for subproject
submission would be December 31, 1982, and the Closing Date would be December
31, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Under Government regulations, all tenders for projects undertaken by
villages or municipalities must be advertised for at least three days in two
local newspapers. Under its loan agreements with subborrowers, CVDB's prior
approval of the terms and conditions of tenders is required. A committee
at the village or municipality level reviews the bids that are received and
forwards its recommendation as to which to accept to the MMRA if the contract
exceeds JD 5,000 ($17,000 equivalent), or to the district governor if it is
smaller, for approval. Recommendations sent to the MMRA are reviewed by the
Directorate of Works and Engineering Services before being forwarded to the



- 18 -
Minister for approval. These procedures are satisfactory, especially in view
of the typically small size of projects (few will be above $150,000) and are
very unlikely to interest foreign contractors.
48.       In view of the large number of small subloans against which the Bank
will disburse, the usual documentation supporting disbursement requests will
not be required. Instead, disbursements will be made periodically on a reim-
bursement basis, covering a flat 50 percent of CVDB's total disbursements
for eligible subprojects, against a certificate of expenditure provided by
CVDB. While the supporting documents will not be submitted to the Bank, they
will be retained by CVDB and be available for inspection by the Bank.  CVDB's
disbursement officers are qualified and the disbursement system is adequate.
During negotiations, CVDB agreed to arrange with its auditors for the audit of
expenditure statements in line with Bank's requirements (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreement). The Bank's standard disbursement procedures will be
used for any portion of the Bank loan proceed used for the technical assistance
component.
Benefits and Risks
49.       The main benefits of the proposed project would be improved public
services to meet the basic needs in education, health, water supply and
improved economic infrastructure such as market and storage facilities,
slaughterhouses and small irrigation works with the participation of local
communities. This should enhance the productivity and attractiveness of life
in rural areas and smaller towns and help slow the migration from the rural
areas and smaller towns to the larger towns and Amman, thereby lessening the
mounting pressure on existing facilities in these towns and Amman. Further-
more, the project would strengthen the identification, preparation, implemen-
tation and operation of development projects at the local level, and would
foster the integration of villages and smaller municipalities into national
development. Through the technical assistance component of the proposed
project, CVDB would develop its institutional capabilities to provide technical
assistance to local authorities and strengthen key institutional links in the
delivery of development services to rural areas.
50.       The risk entailed in carrying out this project successfully is
its complexity, due to the large numbers of sectors and institutions involved
and the inevitable difficulties of interagency coordination in a country
relatively short of managerial talent. While the proposed organization and
staffing as well as the technical assistance program are designed to address
these potential problems, successful realization of the project's benefits
would depend largely on the ability of CVDB's management to execute properly
CVDB's mandate and to maximize CVDB's impact at the local level. However,
close supervision of CVDB's activities, especially during the initial period
of its operations, and the Government's determination to give CVDB the
support it needs in its early years, would mitigate these risks substantially.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Cities
and Villages Development Bank, and the draft Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special condi-
tions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
52.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 10, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REfERENCE GROUPS (ASJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)               SORDAN                           - MOST RECENT ESTI,ATE) -
TOTAL             97 .7                                                SAME         SAYE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      14.7                               MOST RECEINT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   .,          ..   1050.0            1532.5    1097.7       1942.6
gNERGY C0NSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGR.2IS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   197.0       306.0    527.0            838.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, YID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     1.7         2.3       2.9
CURAN POPULATION (PElCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7       49.6      52.9            49.0       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILLIONS)                       12.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PU SQ. tM.                       17.0        24.0      30.0             19.9      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KIS. AGRICULTURAL LAND    133.0     165.0    197.0             99.0      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUR (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.0        45.8      47.0            45.6       41.3        35.4
15-64 YnS.                        52.0        51.1      50.0            51.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.0         3.1       3.0             2.S        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.2         3.1       3.3             3.0        2.4         1.7
URBAN                             5.0/L       4.5       4.5             5.2        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TVOUSAND)    47.0        48.0      47.0            43.7       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0        16.0      13.0            13.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.5       3.4             3.2        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         ..        ..
USERS (?ERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..              ..       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            ..        79.0/f   63.0/f          90.8      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
- EQUIRENTS)                   90.0        92.0      90.0            99.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         62.0        60.0      65.0            63.6       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      16.0         18.0/h     ..            16.0       23.5        31.3
CIILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    30.0        22.0      16.0            15.9        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT EIRTH (YEARS)   47.0        52.0      56.0            53.8       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..       86.0        ..              ..       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-         *-      56.0            56.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      60.0            83.4       75.7        85.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      50.0            34.3       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            59.1       46.0        70.1
URSAN                               ..         ..        ..            78.2       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            26.4       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5900.0      2680.0   2250.0           3677.0    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    1650.0      1050.0    930.0           1730.6    1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           500.0       960.0    950.0            577.0      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..       740.0        ..              ..      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..      5750.0        ..              ..    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        36.5      39.6            21.3       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
-OTAL                             5.3         6.1        ..             5.8        5.3         4.7
URBAN                             5.5          .,        ..             5.5        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             5.1          ..        ..             6.0        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        1.9         1.1
UR3AN                              ..          ..        ..              ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                              * -         * -                                 2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             17.0         ..        .,            45.1       50.0        66.0
URBAN'                           39.2          ..        ,,            67.9       71.7        85.1
RURAL                             1.0          ..        ..              ..       17.3



ANNEX I
- 21-                                               Page 2 of 5
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIXATE)  a
SAME        SAKE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCO0I
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 77.0         73.0/f    84.0/f            85.0      102.5        101.7
MALE                  94.0        80.0/f    88.0/f           .03.7       108.6        110.0
FELE                  59.0        66.0/f    79.0/f            66.0        97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 25.0         33.0/f    49.0/f            27.6       33.5         51.2
MALE                  36.0        41.0/f    56.0/f            39.2        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                13.0        24.0/f    42.0/f            20.8        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   3.0           3.0/f      4.0/f            4.3        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0         39.0/f    36.0/f            32.6       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          21.0         23.0/f    21.077            23.4       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         32.0          ..       59.0             41.4        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0          7.0       14.9             16.7       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         38.0        160.0      196.0            147.9      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        20.0       32.0             36.0       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   18.0        24.0       18.0             17.9       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           0.9         ..              2.9         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       390.0/i      350.0/f   418.0/f
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    5.3          5.577      6.17f            8.6       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              43.9         33.8       28.0             43.0       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.3         32.8       39.0             23.7       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 25.5        24.8       24.2             26.7        33.5        33.8
MALE                                  46.7        45.6       44.4             46.4        48.0        51.3
FEMALE                                2.7          2.9        3.0              5.1       16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.3        -2.4/f      2.6/f            1.8         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..       Z4.6f d          21.4       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..       56.0LL           48.6       52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..        6.3f             5.3        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOOSEHOLDS       ..          ..       17.0j            15.0       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOMtE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      230.0            201.3      270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      100.0            134.2      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URiBAN                               ..           ..      206.0            288.6      282.5        550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      135.0            170.0      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR.BA                                 ..          ..       17.5             22.9       20.5
RURAL                                 *'          *-       22.5             31.2       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Esti:mate, betveen 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  EasC Bank only;   /j 1952-61;   /h 1964-66;
/i 5 years and over;   LI  1973.
Mtost Recent Estimate of CUP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



22 -                                                "~~~~~~~ANEX :I
-22-                                                 ~~~~~Page 3of 5
DEFINlITIONSB O? SOCIAL MEICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are dram  fro   a-uoe  gene.rally judged the meat authoritative  ad reliable, it should slao be noted that they e   not be inter-a-
ti.l'y comparabl  boaeof the lank nf atadardioed deficitinee  end concoepta ..ed by diff-ret countrie  be  nIhe1-tbg the date. Th. data are, entees
useftI to desoib  orders of magnitude, indioate tred., sod characterize certain major differences betoe.. sountri-a
The adjusted group a--ra     for each indioctor a-epoptstioo-eeighted gemtri. teams., occluding the entree    ale  of th .iodioator ad the  -ot populated
noutry in each grouP.  Dhus to lank of data, grop avragsm of an1 indicatora for Capital Surplus Oil Eportera and of indoator  o f Aoo.a to Water and Envreta
Ditpocal, H.u."-g  Thoso  Di.trib.ti.e  and Piverty for other country gcoup. are pspuItio-eeighted geometric means oitbout sos Ioof ohe estr-  taloee and
the soo  poplated on.      r.    ic  th ovrg         .ounntrie   swgte indicator,depends ono aviabltyo   at   ndhttuifor-, vaoion eust be exercised
in relaing averages ofome indinato  t'o aother.fha   vrgsaemc                           afla   proimatioes of `eaneoted' esbues cic compariing the valoen of one
indivator at a him  emng Ohs couter and referencegru.
IAND) AREA (thousanmd aq.bm.(                                                                  Acoses to &-oeta lipoa)  (percent of populatbon) - totch, urban, nd floal-
Total - Thtai arfacs are  coprisieg land are  ad inland  -atera.,P                             Numbertof people (toal  urban, enod _rora) ar-od by socreto dispsa  a
AgriouItur.1 -   .at re..e.tos.tints  cf agriculturl. area used temporaril                     pecntagen of their respective populations. Eocreta dispsi .. cImyi,  cludo
or pernaeotlyfor crops, petrs -aket and Aitcho gardens or to                                 the vo11eotico  and disyoanI, slob or nithout tr-t-to, of huma  corsts
liv  fa1lco.                                                                                 and  sseutrby natsr-b-rn   syoto or tbo use of pit privies and  -olla
GNP PER CAPITA (cS$) - GNP peev .pita esti-tmte  at curet   ake  Prices,                        pv.aivnpePnsce etulto    iie   ycme  o   rciigppiin
calculated by san  convrio  acthod no World Bank Atlas (1976-7a bade.);                         uiftjfeTidoer ceATha1cl school no univerity bevel.
1960, 1970. and 197$ data.                                                                   Phoulation pe-      ring P-cso   - Population  divided by, nuhe  o f practicing talc
ENERGY COtdSUMPTION PER CAPITA  - Annual connnoptioo of  -omeeria.. ecrgy                         and fmale grad unesrao brati-el nuss,ad  -suistntnus.
(col ad lgnoc,potolen,natralga  and byben-, nucea  and ge.-                           Populatins pe  Hospbta1 Bed -Xttal, ubn  and rura  - Popultion  (total, urboc,
thera  eeticity  in kiloram   of ovleuoln   eecpt;i ,ad rura) divided by their respective oub-r ofbopito1 bsds available  in
1970, nod i9h icon                                                                             publican-dprivat bgeneral and npeccilirsd b-tiotte  and rohabilitnti oncentero.
HosPita oar       eoc hiants  pse.setiy otaffsd by at least ono physicia..
POlPULAION ANE VITAL STATISTICS                                                                   Enotbliohc.ects providing prinoipullp  -utsd;al   c   r   o  in lue. 1ura
Total Poplaco  hoid-Year (millions) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                            hospital, :ihooser,tisusbnt   o I hsdicni octors n                     t peacip  stn f,d
1977 dais.                                                           by ~~a Phyica   (bu  byameilasstn,ur, eudoife, etc                          hisuh offcr
Urban Population (perve-t of tot1( -RPatio of urban to total population;                        in-patient sc--ndtion and pr..oids a  imitd rang  If   edical facilinic..
diff,ervt defibtiocs of urban ars may affect voapar..ility of data                         Adnissiona per HosItal .Bed - Totul nueber of adi.is..nn  to or discharges fron
sognontis  1960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                                      bospitis divided by the n-ber of bedo.
Population in yearO00  -  urr..st population projections are bmssd on                   HOUSING
195ttlpplation by agsen   e and       their ert.lity and fsertility             Aveage  Ric   of household (persons per houehold) - total,  rban, and   -Iru  -
rates. frojecti-o Paramtesfor sorsiti  ra tes vosebs o" f those                           A hou;Inhod conists cf a group of ildicidosls uho soh-  lici    q                -rtr  and
level  assuing li fe  vopeot-y no birth isco insig othO country's                         thi     .ai .o. I     A bnardor or lodger as  or -ay non Lv in-           d in the
Prec-pit. incoec leol, and f-nole life enpeetaoy stahilisiag at                            housebcld fnr soatistbeal PurPoses.
77.5 peer.  The par te-ser  for fertility rateIalo bane three levels                    Average numb      er of ...on ,per r-on - total, urbn, and rura  - boeerge vuish-
atuigdecline is fertility accoding to nn   level end paso                            ofprosPer            Io in cli ura,sd rurs           t ocoi d ...ncrctio-.u  du-llinpo:
faril, canoing peeforneno. Each coutry is then assigned one ofthese                        resp-tic-ly.  D-ollisgo  cI-in dec...-prano   n-ut-roaduoouid.ut -d
nive  obi-ations of cortlity agd fertility trends for projection                        Access to Electricity (percest If doclliegc( - Octal, orba, cod cocc  -  'Io-
-p--c,o                                                                                    oetiicno1 do-lliogs sith cloctricity in liciog quarters so perventg, ci'
Statio...ry  npupletioc - In s stationey popointion there is no gro-th                       tons1, ucbho, nod ..urni dsellicgnreep-tioely.
.oo   tbr  iitb rstr it equal On the death rate, and alec the age
,tru_turcre_aico otn.Ths                 ohiiscrd only after fertil icy retne         EDUCATION
-leiic   to thy rcplsoirt lvlo   ci c t reproduction rate,  bhs                         Adjooted Inrolinsct Ratio-
ccch gretion nfo...ereplnecs  itself e-ntly.  The statinsary popu-                         Pris..  sc~hool - tota.L  ma1ir ad fcsl-lroctti,ni   o    mue  c1l-
Istic 0 niceo,z    Oinatd on Ohs banis of tie  projected obarneterie~tics                    .noo  of clinAn  so etiprni,lvlo peoni o f V,                   ren ti-c procur
of tic poi,ulacion  in the year 2000, and the  otc of deoioc of fertlity                     school-age popcletios; or-neily inciodes ohildrno  agod ("-ii p.ror  boo
rstOronreplecennt le..                                                                       o djostd for diffecesi iengtho of prinary educatine; lIv  cI or o ii
hear saiOeinray populsotit is rea ched - The peer uh.. stationry population                    ubcrs  eduo-tico voro.ll.eet cay cood 100 psee-nt oio-  pccv  ,ui,ln
oboc has beeroreahd.                                                                         arc  elon or eco-  tOe officiel shool age.
Our inin D-nicy                                                                            SIoodscy scho.,l - total, only and fcomlc - IcmptIcdn.nor   tntr
Per sq. k.. - Mod-year ppuietion  per oqo..re oilbonoer (110 h-tOaes) of                       rducation requires  t Irci t fou  pe-rn of apPr..ced P,rint-yi I oItub',0
"toi  re                                                                                     poIdon       n geera  voctIo  nI   Tn hehr t-insing insn..oc   -.1.  p..vdo
Per so. no,agiculturl land - foePutrd as above fn-sgio               1ur    ad                 usualy if 12 tn 17 ycero,  of sge; ocrcs-poden-co.r.. - on    .-11yi
only.                                                                                        vi dludod
Popul.ti.n  ge Stro- r  (pr ts) . Children (0-14 year), norbiog-age                            Vo_stionci  noroilset (percent of ocoodccy( - V.-tini1ct-, c             tootio-  itjlodr
(1Ii er(   s   eird  I6 pears and over) as peevesoages of cid-yartechnicl   ioutil,c   0     Programoi;   prc   o'vrdol   rs
pou.at411; i960, 1970, sod 1977 do.t                                                            dcpartmentIfscdery  incttot._
.Poplotion Growth Onto (percent) - totall - Anuni greth rates of total add-                    Ppioahrsi   - tocloPsri,, . eosoo c                   T ftol  -Ivunnt  - 1olic  in
year populations for 1950-ho, 1i96-70, -co 1970-77.                                            prinsci, ad scootdsry loelc  dioidri by oumbon of t-hto,- c. on.1              rr,
ponuinti-n G..uth bats       . (ccst (-urban  - Annual1 gruth rates of urban                     spodiog le-1l.
pcpolotionu for 1951_60, 1907-0, sod 1970-75.                                                Adult 1iteracy  aOn (pr-o-t' -Litc-tr eduito  shUiv  to  -cc  ono oito)
Crude Birth Pate (per ticonad) - Annal Ii-c birtno  per thousand of mid-                          u  eosaoo  totmb edult pop.floc              gri1. y          _cicdovr
yerpoplutioc1;19,170an  1977 data.,
Crodceth ate(prthouad   - hsA.               dtho  per tbhnoand of vio-yrsr               CONSUMPTION
PoPullinoi; 19601, 1970, ad1977 dato.                                                      Casoo r.fr   (p-c thoo-ad pputill,  - Onocro roonI  .ooPcr,   vtoronro
ice    nrduction  Raten-uo7eragc nuber of d-ughte-e o oa ili beso                        seting lens than riht perso_o; s_olcoes-omblanoc , Icoroan                     iler1
in bec norna1 r-p-du-ti-r priod if ohs soperi-cees preset  age-                              vehicles.
opr_ific  feet itity eaten; _u lip  fioc-pyar soerages soding in i96o,                     Rsdio  Reoci--r 'pee thoooand populetibn) -ill typro of --ioccocco  fr,d
1970, no   I97.                                                                              brond-oto  to general public pe,r thouton          popl' noiv   -eolde,ol oor
O-1y Ply ning7-bccnPt.r., A..uat   .ucadsi-,Anoueinwnbe f                                      ceer""I, loooeisnl I tie_iorgnrcnifc_-on, -itost  in
ooe,tc    f birth-coot-o1 device  'under  oPIc   of national Ifamily                   effect; date fo1r  _eet yccrs nap no,t he  onpo-chcsnce nt o__i_ce
ploiio   progrcm.                                                                            abolished  lic..scog_
emily Pentin    -  sr pret of married  -0c) - Pereentgco If married                         TV osrvrs(cthundpoc-latii i) - TV -ceo-i-                      or trod            I""',yvcr
socen  f chil-hearng  age(15-S  pesrs( oho '-o  birth-ec-t-1 devicee                 public per thousad populotico; nov  Oy  unl  nrod TO   oo   cr   ncu Ii
to ell married  --c in sane agegroup,                                                        and in peeo sie. r-goictbtin of ES' sets  soiv IffctO
cool on;; no'cc oriole                                                 li~~~~~~~~es..epss  Ci-cintion (pe toenrooeuc(             bostcoeaocrtlto
lnd-e of Foon Pfroinc-ion per inpius (1959-71-1ilih( - Id-o of per cayils                      devted princi  to recording g-orre  io-u             itiocosoc-oedt0  be 'duiLy'
acous  productio   o f nlb fond onoaditien   Peodueioc i   eclude  ied and                   if it opp-ac  on 1-ts o'or ti-o ' 0ic
fee'd nod .0  c oedsr prchsi.   orditi   cvrPrimar  go,do                                 ECinan Annl .. O ttendnoc-     cIci   o   ir          i Y-1      ith  o.o-.-or >1 cii-
r..cffe  and ten er  co-luded).  Aggregte produetion of snob country 
is b-nd In.. neionnl sc-rae producer tprice neights.
rev  -cito so epi  of _ulococ_ (ce_csti  css resn)- Coaputed fr.n                       IABEP FORCEl
--egy rqsi-lent of not food noyplics  -cilablc in country per capita                    Tonal Labor Forc  inthos-n ) - Ec--n-eoly  -oti- p-rs.nt, i-lodiogorved
PerdAy.A-itbabi  -upjices cmprioc dometic production, imports leon                         force  and un-PIoped hut e.oldin   hon ci-,otco,co   lei_tl,:0
enpot sochanges ci noot-.  Pet s-pplie  1c lds aninni feed, seds,                          icc-rionc .      tr..te   o In r_oubl. 
q-atitico'usd In fod Pco... icg  ad 1ones indlooribution. Ocquiec-                      )96         .... t)repO   -reai  luhr for-o   o     -tcce Isrf t'.i    inh-rfuor
.nettn-trrotnin         i,fiine    d  n  hsibgin   reds foe scemmi                                  op- n   - Ichor forc  oc fartisg, f....try, hbunnigan
-olii 1Adhcth   "'sdrigcvr  mn    teAp rmo, boysightc,                             fishing so percentage  htt lbrfre
s,5  nod sen dintributi-on   of popnlstii-, ann ab1ocig 10 peee-t fcc                   industry (percent) - da.b c f_r_innising, o.- ...trtion,  -nofntoring n-d
scon   hi ...ohbod leoni.                                                              electricity, unoer ad gsccorontgs  tts lbrfrr
Fir Osits iully ofpreteio  (gr-n  per day   P-Prtein content 'I pee                  Pa-tiipatbo   Psor (perrn --          oti   altan   rol  - 1~I'ri-iptio   or
capita cvt sopply of food per del. Net onp    f fiod is-fe    seticity  tesc  are o-mpotd 00 tciel, vole, nod fcnulr  boiofrce so ,per-
abooc.e hquir-mntn  for all countries es'tablishedf1by Jih  proided foe a                   etae      f total, cabs an  f-ai  populetion o~f.o           n  res c-tiocp
cinicu   ellonanc   cc oI0 gram   of tono1 protein per day an .0 gram    f                 >l7o,~1~970, sd 1975  nto.  'Theor- or  1521' opuricqti-e  ,Ot,  refleting
anino  and pnlse peot,ic, of obieh OE gesn  chold be anima  pr-ti-.                        age-c  stricture of tic  population, nd bong ti entdc.  A  eo  -coimate
Th'- tesanderdo'  _c  losr than_ht_  of 75 grann of total protein and                      nrc frn ontiosn.l s.u.. -.
27gran   of animal protein  es so  --ergr for thc  -ced, propose.d hi, PA0             frcnnmie Pependeoy Oatih   -  Pc-io . f poypbnoc-  .sder 10 and 65  to oern
in One Third W-1id Food lorici                                                            thy inbor forc  it  g   rupo                  --clpes
Per ceit, prticocpp,   fo   aise; and po1ct - frctecn supply of food
deniedfrnanmisad pui1-o io grms per-  dyi.                                            INCOMEo DISTITOPJTIONEl        R-
fOill (ag-s I-) Mcrtality hate (pcr thousand) - Annua~l destbn por thonsand                  Percetage ofPrvte Ioose (both is  -hu and bind) - Rsocived lp richest
in  ge grou.p l-. ypenn, tv children in thioggop  for cot _levl                            5 percent, richest 20 peroent, po...ect 20 pce-ent, and yc__t Ljpercent
op .000 rs, loin dercdfy   lif  noblen.                                                 of hoeehi.1
Lfibr  Ecp-otancpttbirth(pe) -  onae  uber of peans of lIfe                                  Estianted Abnnlute Pocerty 1--ia   -Iol (U$ ore  cpita) - orban. anrurol
recaicing at birth; 190 97,ad1977. date.                                                     Ab-olote povco  incebel is Obt i%ncove level beico ohichanini
infant sIrohty motn (pse th-u-ud( - Annoal dentin of infants  ndre oeotitboal   adequae iet p1us sonic  non-food  -cqni, .ec.. 1.i  not
peer ofaeper thou-and lice bienhe.                                                            ff-rdsble.
doo...s to Sae Water (p-.ceno  f population   - Octal, urban, and rual-                      fnoimated Pelsoi-e P-certy incoe level (us$ per  -npita) - urban and rm -
Nob-c of peopic (total, o-h-, and rural  slob reasonable acces  to                           FOsrel reltive poocroy ini-a  le-c  in, no-third of --crau  pee capsitn
oatcoO,ly(includes  treatednurfacenatsrnn-atreate  dbt                              personalin..o.msofnthoennety.crhb- l-eleiIod-i-ndfr-vnheru-1iieoe
oc-ntsmi-toed onoer ouh en that from protected bireholco, opringo,                           nbtb id'jotmnt for higher coot of living in orban ar-s
and  -aitn.   n1lbo   - s  percentagen of their r-pe-ti-e population.  In                   it im_tsdPopultion P01cc Absolnts Cocrn  inom   Level (?e,rcst( - urban and
auan   n  raepblic outain cr standpost located not mar  tha                                  crerl _ cerre.    o    f popolcloet  ba   anhrya           _bc   r    'aslut   oo'
200 nte-r   fro. c`house',  osy be conidered as being s,itbareasonable 
u coco  oftObt  cus._   In rura  a-e. ....unable anes Isod Imply
that,nbh  houv-ifo or urebnr  of thm  houehold do eon have no speed a                                                                   cnncaOio niIem io
disprop-ti-oten pert of the dsy in fetching the family'. -mter needs                                                             hc i,Žc  Ansynis an 'Irj oIoo eprsn
An~gust 1979



23  -
ANN! X I
V.agc 4 Sf 5
ECONOMIC INDTCATORS
GROSS NATIOIAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'drH (9i, constant prices)
USt, Min.      %                         1961 -66          1972 -75       1976 -78
GNP at Market Prices          2332.0       100.0                         7.7                9.0            7.1
Gross Domestic Invest,nent     775.0         33.2                        5.9                9.1           11.5
Gross National Saving          610.0         26.2                        1.3               -O.7           -8.1
Current Account Balance       -163.0
Exports of Goods, NFS          816.0         35.0                       14.6               18.0            9.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         1858.0         79.7                        6.5               12.6           9.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODl1CTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Force-                    V. A. Pfir Worker
US$ Kln.     ,$                  ILn.        %                    Us $
Agriculture                    81.4        9.6                  115.0    30.0                   707.0        32.1
Industry.                     212.9       25.2                   38.2    10.0                  5573.0       252.9
Services                      549.4       65.2                 221.6    58.0                   2479.0       112.5
Unallocated                      -          -                     8.0     2.0 .                    -           -
Total/Average          .-
b43.7                            382.8   10                      204.O       lOC.(
GO7;',,T1T FT!7AhTCE
Oeneral Government
T'           ; Mln.)  of or)),
78            978        1975-7 7
Current Recaipts                  242.1           42.8         51.7
Current 6xpenditure               211.0           37.3         42.0
Current Surplus                      =             5.5          9.7
Capital Expenditures              148.5           26.2         23.0
Liternal Assistance (net)          59.2           10.4           6.0
MEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1973          1974        1975         1976         1977        1978
Tylillion    outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Hioney                    176.1         219.7        288.4       376.3        464.3        597.4
Bank credit to Public Sector               38.8          41.7         37.2   -   60.5          72.8       103.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector              59.3          81:3        120.8       196.4        229.8       313.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          80.5          82.1         94.9        91.3         94.3       105.5
Go:-.ra' Price mid.x (1975 - 100)         -74.d          9.3       100.0        111.5        127.7       136.6
Awxual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                        11.1          19.4         12.0        11.5         14.5         6.9
arnk credit to Public Sector               64.1           7.8       -10.8         62.6         20.3        41.6
Bank credit to Private Sector              23.8          17.3        48.6         62.h        17.0         3f,.5
NC1.t All ronvor7ionn to dollnr- in tVl , tTh a et t! .. ,,  ,          i.I:anr r.t-        j. ,    tr, ; -.IA
cove rea.
1/ Total liriuor force; unEnlployed Are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unal1ocaLn,i" conMist_
w- inly of "rn'-mrloy& l rk"rs scrk.lng their rlr:nt jol..
.. not available
jl,, ;q+  i!li.- JluA 



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
19 76    1977       1978                                                   US S Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS            551        692       816               Phosphates                             57.2    28.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         -1271       -1650    -1858                Fruits and Vegetables                  42.0    20.7
Resource Gap (deficit - -)   ^720          -958    -1042                Manufactured goods                     25.8    12.7
Chemicals                              10.9      5.
Interest Payments (net)           25         22        23
Workers' Remittances             396        424       458
Other Factor Payments (net)       -          -
Net Transfers                    381        504       398                All other commodities                 67       3 33'
Balance on Current Account        8 ' _2             -163                      Total                          203.1   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment                                              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 197
Net MLT Borrowing
Loans Received               125        301        317                                                           US $ M1-
Amortization                 -160       -148      -121
Subtotal                      -35        153       196                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               825.0
Capital Grants                    -          -         -                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              -10         11        39                Total outstanding & Disbursed                825.0
Other items n.e.i                -76         39        49                                           1/
Increase in Reserves (+)          39        195       121              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978-
Gross Reserves (end year)        504        677       923
Net Reserves   (end year)        470        654       894                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                  6.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fiel and Related Materials                                               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which:  Petroleum         112        131
RATE OF EXCHANGE
JD 1.00 - US$                      3.01       3.04      3.27
1' Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
November 15, 1979
EMENA CP Il-C



- 25-                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
(as of January 31, 1980)
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
-------$ Million ----
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower           Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                                       35.1
Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan
386      1973          "         Power                             10.2      0.6
498       1974         "         Irrigation                         7.5      1.8
534       1975         "         Education II                       6.0      3.2
570       1975         "         Power II                          5.0       0.9
639      1975                    Tourism                            6.0      5.2
780      1978                    Water Supply III                 14.0       6.8
1617     1978      The Arab
Potash Co.   Potash Extraction    35.0                   28.7
1688     1979      Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan    Power III               15.0                14.6
1781     1979         "          Education III          19.0                19.0
TOTAL                                          69.0    83.8        79.0
of which has been repaid                              0.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a              69.0    83.2
Total undisbursed                              62.3    18.5        79.0
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26-                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
$ Million ----
Year         Obligor                  Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1974  Jordan Ceramic Ind. Co. Ltd. Ceramic Tiles                1.6    0.2    1.8
1975/
1978  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.   Phosphatic Fertilizer  70.0/1  6.7   76.7/1
1979  Jordan Lime and Silicate        Building Materials        2.5    0.7    3.2
1979  Jordan Securities Corp.         Money & Capital Market            0.7    0.7
Total Commitments                                       74.1/1  8.3   82.4/1
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled               50.5     -    50.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC                        23.6    8.3   31.9
Total Undisbursed                                      66.5    3.7   70.2
/1   Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other partic-
ipants.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 386: Power Project; US$10.2 Million Credit of May 24, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: August 21, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is to help the conversion from diesel to steam powered
generation by adding two 33 MW steam generating units and one 13 MW combustion
turbine, all to be installed at a new power station at Zerka, near Amman and
by providing management consultancy services to assist the Jordan Electricity
Authority in organizing and expanding its power generation and transmission
operations. The Project has been satisfactorily completed despite initial
delays; the combustion turbine unit was commissioned in May 1975 and the two
steam units in August 1977. A claim by the electro-mechanical contractor
which delayed the closing of the credit has been settled.
Cr. No. 498: Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project; US$7.5
Million Credit of July 25, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August
1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is part of an overall development scheme for the East
Bank of the Jordan Valley, other parts of which will be financed by the KfW,
USAID, and the Kuwait Fund. The project consists of the agricultural devel-
opment of 7,700 ha net, of which 6,660 ha are already under irrigation, and
the provision of rural facilities for domestic water supply, health, educa-
tion of the irrigation system by a Korean contractor is proceeding satisfac-
torily. All structures have been completed, most equipment and materials are
on site and pipe laying is slightly ahead of schedule. All schools are
completed, furnished and are now being operated by the Education Department
and all health center buildings are completed. Several grants from USAID for
training, applied research and assistance in management of the farmer's
association should improve the Jordan Valley Authority's efforts to accomplish
the agricultural development objectives of the project which have so far been
neglected. Cost overruns of about 72 percent in total project costs are
expected and would be met by the Government.
Cr. No. 534: Second Education Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of March 12,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to expand vocational and technical educa-
tion, to promote quality improvements in secondary education by replacing
uneconomically small, rented school buildings and providing schools with
adequate workshops, and to support integrated rural development projects in
the Jordan Valley through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education. The
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
project includes construction, furniture and equipment for the following
institutions: a Polytechnic at Irbid; a training complex at Aqaba; a Hotel
Training School at Amman; three comprehensive secondary schools; extension
of preparatory and secondary schools (seven pre-vocational workshops; five
science laboratories, four women's craft centers); and a rural development
center. Overall project implementation is about 2 years behind schedule due
to initial delays in selecting project consultants. However implementation of
major project components is now proceeding satisfactorily. It is expected
that the time already lost in construction will be regained and that schools
will be ready for occupancy during the 1980/81 school year. Technical assis-
tance being provided by UNDP and ODM is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 570: Second Power Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project adds 33 megawatts of steam power plant to total generat-
ing capacity. It also includes reconditioning of the diesel-electric power
station at Marqa and a Power Development Study for Southern Jordan. A cost
overrun in total project cost of about 14 percent is expected.  Implementa-
tion of all project components is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works for
the unit are complete and the unit commenced operations in mid-1979. Rehab-
ilitation of the Marqa unit and the Southern Jordan Power Study are also
complete.
Cr. No. 639:   Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodation and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well
as the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the
Basin. The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance.
Schematic plans and cost estimates for the Petra Entance Facilities, includ-
ing staff housing are under preparation. Procurement of the first lot of
equipment is proceeding on schedule and bids for the Bedouin resettlement
housing have been reviewed by the Association and implementation would be
by Jordan Housing Corporation. The civil works contract has been awarded
and archaeological work on both sites are proceeding satisfactorily with
assistance from UNESCO.
Cr. No. 780:   Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$14.0 Million
Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), to expand water supply and sewerage
services in Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The
project consists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225
km of sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir,
15,000 meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
services resulting from the project would help protect groundwater resources
in the Amman area from pollution. Overall physical implementation of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. AWSA's financial position has deterio-
rated because of low production due to prolonged drought and poor financial
management. Agreement has been reached with the Association for AWSA to hire
an expatriate financial manager. This agreement, together with improving
rainfall situation should ease AWSA's financial situation.
Loan 1617:     The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consist of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. All the major contracts
for the project have been awarded. The capital cost estimates indicated a 7
percent increase due to higher than anticipated cost of the mechanical works
contract and the inclusion of screening and compacting facilities. Overall
project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
Loan 1688:     Third Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Third Power Project is an integral part of Jordan's 1979-82
Power Development Program whose long range objective is to progressively
interconnect the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan into an
economic and reliable national power system. Specifically, the project would
supply the power needs of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock
mining works at El Hassa, the cement plant at Rashadiya and rural distribution
loads in Central Jordan. Physical implementation of the project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1781:     Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 21,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in training skilled
manpower required in implementing the economic development plan, improving the
quality of education and enhancing the Ministry of Education's management
capabilities. The project would expand technician and vocational training,
increase the supply of teachers, improve agricultural education, expand adult
education, upgrade school building maintenance and establish a computerized
management information system in the Minsitry of Education. Contract for
preparation of bid documents and supervision of construction for all project
institutions was signed in October 1979. Proposals for the hardware and
software for the management information system are under review. All aspects
of project implementation are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 30 -                     Annex III
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1 - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the Project:                    18 months (Jan. 1978 - June 1979)
(b)  The Agency which has prepared
the Project:                            The National Planning Council
and the former Municipal and
Village Loan Fund (MVLF)
(c)  Date of first presentation to
the Bank and date of the first
Bank mission to consider the
project:                                August 1977
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                June 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:    February 29, 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:           August 15, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff assisted the Government in preparing the blueprint for
the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) and the legislation. Bank
staff also prepared the terms of reference for a study to be undertaken to
determine the ways and means to increase productive projects in villages and
municipalities and the terms of reference for an Advisor. The Bank assisted
CVDB in preparing its policy statement.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) CVDB to issue Executive Regulations as a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 33);
(b) CVDB to hire an advisor by July 31, 1980 (para. 36);
(c) CVDB to hire professional staff and establish training
program by September 30, 1980 (paras. 39 and 40);



- 31 -                     Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(d) CVDB to maintain salary scale adequate to recruit and
retain qualified staff (para. 39); and
(e) Government and CVDB to agree on Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment the ratification of which is a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 46).






IBRD 14569
1=tre=  bw mp,.b$ l4                                 r36°                                                         38w                           NOVEMBER 1979
,.m.ff    WLEBANON
44. 00  9tcff>we t4 t.dO. oP'
thtw04twh/
tWttMt M,*,<titl               /          .. PM                   S Y  R  I A  N           A  R  A  B 
R  E  P  U  B  L  I C                                               \I R A  Q
I#D.174ER0 A t ANor
.~ ~~ ~~~ .,* J,-  
A                                                     7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I   R    B    I D
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M    M  A K                               N/
\,  iV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                     A U D I          A\,AB    
\    ~            ~~~~~~ !Tofdcoh5    2,/\
\j                !'<~~i.  ?eV      / /                                                     '
.                                                                                  .j  K
S  j.X.t                                                            z               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~J O   R  D  A  N
/ !        %'              /s co                                           i           POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
\  \    @ Mo'ast                                                          j                           AND
30'         /                         M    A  'A    N                                 j             ADMINISTRATIVE  DIVISIONS
A ARAB                                                                                                                   SELECTED URBAN CENTERS(-crc
\      J                                                     _....                                         grodooted occording to popultlon.)
REPUBLIC C                                                                                                               --180,000
OF  EGYPT                                                                                                                         0 |  /1
v;qgbc  /                                             PERSONS PER SQUARE KILOMETER:
Jpf7aba                                     _                              h O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 9
X r , 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-19
~~~ooobe   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-j~~~~~~~-- ~~~~~10 - 199
/ t _- _, / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200 - 499
GULF!rJ              _   _                z                                                            _     500 - 1000
KILOMETERSO    20    40    60    O0    100              SUB-GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
AQ S    <' A  I I 1A    1      A  n 8    n A              MILES6        20        40         60       ---   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
SAUDI               A      ABIA                  -ES          2 v0                 0       3'-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
7                         11~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'                                              38



