Document of                                 COPY
The World Bank                       FILE CP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2763-JO
JORDAN
LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR THE
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 3, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   = JD 0.294
JD 1.00   = US$3.40
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACC    - Agricultural Credit Corporation
CVDB   - Cities and Villages Development Bank
IDB    - Industrial Development Bank
JCO    - Jordan Cooperative Organization
JEA    - Jordan Electricity Authority
JVA    - Jordan Valley Authority
ilMRA   - Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MOE    - Ministry of Education
MOH    - Ministry of Health
MOPW   - Ministry of Public Works
MVLF   - Municipal and Village Loan Fund
NPC    - National Planning Council
NRA    - Natural Resources Authority
WSC    - Water Supply Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
THE CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION  .............................................                                 1
II.     INFRASTRUCTURE AND PUBLIC  SERVICES  AT THE LOCAL LEVEL  ....                               2
General  .          .................................................                       2
The Ministry  of Municipal  and Rural Affairs  ....                       ..........        2
Structures  of Regional  and Local  Government  ....                      ..........        3
Local Government  Finance  .................................                                4
Local Government  Staffing  and Operation ..................                                5
Local Decision Making  ....................................                                 5
Proposed Loan Administration  Law  .........................                                6
Service Delivery  Systems  .................................                                6
Regional  Planning  ........................................                              10
Other  Specialized  Credit  Institutions  ....................                            11
Cost  of Capital  ..........................................                              12
III.      CVDB - THE  INSTITUTION  ...................................                              13
Objectives  and Functions  .................................                              13
Legal  Framework  ..........................................                              14
Ownership  ................................................                               14
Board of Directors  .......................................                               15
Management  and  Staff  .....................................                             15
Organization  .............................................                               17
Policies  .................................................                               17
Lending Procedures  .......................................                               18
IV.     CVDB - OPERATIONS AND  FINANCES  ...........................                               19
Past Operations  ..........................................                               19
Financial  Position  .......................................                              20
Forecast  of Operations  and Financial  Performance  ....                      .....      20
Resource  Requirements  ....................................                              21
This project was appraised by Messrs. H.B. Thomas and S. El Daher in
June 1979 and the report was prepared by Messrs. H.B. Thomas, S. El Daher
and W.J. Hayden.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE  PROJECT   ..............................................    21
Objectives .................................                     21
Use of the Proceeds of the Proposed Loan ....       .............    22
Benefits   and  Risks   .......................................  23
Main Features of the Proposed Loan .......................    24
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................         26
ANNEXES
1.   Historical and Forecast Operations
2.   Balance Sheets
3.   Forecast Profit and Loss Statements
4.   Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
JORDAN
CHAPTER I: INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the Cities and Villages Development Bank
(CVDB) in Jordan for a proposed loan of $10.0 million. A Law has been enacted
establishing CVDB to take over and expand on the activities of the earlier
Municipal and Village Loan Fund (MVLF). The MVLF was established in 1966 as
an arm of the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MMRA) to provide loans
to municipalities and village councils for such projects as water supply,
school buildings, electricity distribution, health clinics and commercial
buildings. MVLF never built up an independent appraisal capacity, however,
instead relying on the technical staff of the MMRA and other ministries and
agencies. As a result it never became an effective development institution,
being instead merely a cashier.
1.02      In 1977 the Government requested Bank assistance in reorganizing
the MVLF into a more dynamic and independent institution. After a series of
missions to Jordan and an extended dialogue with Government authorities and
other interested and involved Jordanians, the present project has evolved.
While the institution has some of the characteristics typical of a development
finance company, unlike most DFC's it finances infrastructure and the social
sector for local government authorities concentrating on rural areas. Having
a central credit institution lending to local authorities for practically the
whole range of their capital needs has several advantages. It enables the
local authorities to obtain more capital on more favorable terms and more
promptly than if each had to seek it alone. It serves as a knowledgeable
intermediary between the local and central governments, meshing local with
national development plans. It provides local authorities with technical
assistance not only in identifying and implementing projects but also in
managing these projects and their financial affairs in general.
1.03      It is appropriate that the CVDB and similar institutions provide
funds for such non-income generating projects as schools and health facilities
as well as for such income generating projects as slaughterhouses and commer-
cial buildings as both are complementary and essential for each other's
success as well as for improving the quality of life of the local residents.
Most of the proposed loan would be on-lent by CVDB to help finance its sub-
projects with $500,000 being used for technical assistance, mainly advisory
services and training for CVDB's staff and carrying out a study on how to
increase the number of revenue-earning projects identified by villages and
municipalities.



- 2 -
CHAPTER II: INFRASTRUCTURE AND PUBLIC SERVICES AT THE LOCAL LEVEL
General
2.01      The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has a total area of 97,740 km2,
with the occupied West Bank accounting for about 6% of the total area.  The
East Bank has three main geographic regions: the highlands, the Jordan valley
and the desert (IBRD Map 14568). The highlands, with altitudes of 600 - 1,000
meters, enjoy an average annual rainfall of 400 mm. Average rainfall in the
Jordan valley is 200 mm and in the desert region, less than 50 mm.
2.02      The population of Jordan was estimated at about 3 million at the
end of 1977, including 2.1 million on the East Bank. 1/ The population of
the East Bank is largely confined to a quarter of the land area, in a strip
including the Jordan valley and the western highlands (IBRD Map 14569). The
balance is desert or semi-desert populated by nomadic groups. It is estimted
that between 2 and 5% of the population are nomadic. Population density in
these areas is about 1 person per km2 as compared to 100 persons per km2 in
the populated western part of the East Bank. The population of Jordan can be
divided into three major groups: town dwellers, village dwellers (mostly
farmers) and pastoral nomads who derive their living from sheep and goat
herding. Although Jordan was until recently chiefly an agricultural country,
most of the population now lives in urban areas with a high concentration in
the Amman Urban Region (the area within a 30 km radius of Amman city), which
contains about 60% of the East Bank population. Within this region Amman city
accounted in 1976 for about 700,000 and Zarqa for about 260,000; there are 14
other municipalities in the area. The only city of significant size outside
the Amman Urban Region is Irbid in the northern region, which had an estimated
population of 175,000 in 1977. Overall about 60% of the population reside in
towns of 20,000 inhabitants or more. The remaining 40% of the population
reside in smaller towns and villages and will be considered to represent the
rural population with whom this project is chiefly concerned.
The Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MMRA)
2.03      The MMRA is the major authority in charge of service delivery to
villages and municipalities. It is responsible for the preparation of village
and municipal master plans (see para. 2.10), for the appraisal, design and
implementation of their projects, for the review of their budgets, and for
channelling their loan applications to the MVLF (now the CVDB). The Ministry
has six Directorates in charge of Regional and Town and Village Planning,
Works and Engineering Services, House and Street Numbering, Legal Services,
Administration and Finance, and Monitoring and Control.  (The Directorate of
1/   This estimate does not include the 300,000 to 500,000 Palestinian
refugees living in refugee camps.



Regional Planning is being reorganized (para. 2.26). The Ministry also
maintains nine regional offices responsible for project implementation and
supervision. The Directorate of Works and Engineering Services is responsible
for buildings, roads, water, sanitary engineering, and rural development. The
Directorate also plays a major role in the preparation of projects for CVDB's
financing. The Directorate has a staff of 25 professionals but Lhe Ministry
estimates that there is a need for 60 more technical staff. This manpower
shortage hinders the efficiency of the Directorate in providing the needed
services. To overcome this problem, the Government is engaging consultants to
prepare project when necessary.
Structures of Regional and Local Government
2.04      Administratively, the East Bank is divided into five governorates
(Amman, Balqa, Irbid, Karak and Ma'an) headed by a governor representing the
central government. A Governorate is subdivided into areas designated as
sub-governorates which are further subdivided into districts. Various tech-
nical ministries (agriculture, education, health, public works, etc) also have
representatives at the governorate or subgovernorate levels. Table 1 provides
a distribution of the East Bank population by governorate and sub-governorate.
Table 1
Governorate/                                                  Population
Sub-governorat e                                   Governorat e    Sub-governorate
Amman Governorate                                     1,219,108
Amman                                                                   846,180
Madaba                                                                   45,762
Zarqa                                                                   327,166
Balqa Governorate                                       138,100
Irbid Governorate                                      600,076
Irbid                                                                   346,399
Jerash                                                                   64,889
Ajloun                                                                   47,370
Mafraq                                                                   49,372
Ramtha                                                                   45,160
North Ghors                                                              46,886
Karak Governorate                                       113,751
Karak                                                                    89,594
Tafilaeh                                                                 24,157
Ma'an Governorate                                        55,505
Ma'an                                                                    37,505
Aqaba                                                                    18,000
Total                                                2,126,540



- 4 -
2.05      The availability of infrastructure and public services at the local
level is considerably influenced by the prevailing structure of local govern-
ment. Local governments in all urban and rural settlements in Jordan fall
into one of three categories:
(a)  Incorporated Villages with Village Councils.  Any village which has
a minimum of 1,000 residents, 100 houses and 180 taxpayers can
request to be incorporated by MMRA and thus have an elected village
council. There are currently about 200 villages with councils on
the East Bank accounting for a population of about 250,000.
(b)  Municipalities.  Any village which has had a village council for
five years and which has attained a population of 2,500 can request
the MMRA to change its status to that of a municipality presided
over by a mayor. Excluding the capital city of Amman (population
about 736,000) there are presently 88 municipalities in the East
Bank, with a population of about 940,000.
(c)  Unincorporated Villages (or Villages without Councils).  These are
villages which do not yet qualify for incorporation. The number
of such villages, which in certain cases are not more than small
settlements of semi-nomads, is estimated at about 500, accounting
for a population of about 200,000.
A recent regulation has allowed the formation of "Joint Services Commissions"
in which a number of adjacent municipalities, incorporated and/or unincorpo-
rated villages can pool their resources in order to provide joint services.
These are established by MMRA and are run by a representative council headed
by the governor or sub-governor. Seventeen such commissions have already been
established.
Local Government Finance
2.06      Both the ability to tax and the access to financial resources are a
function of the official classification of a local community. Unincorporated
villages have no fiscal capability and except for Government grants and
charitable organizations their access to sources of financial assistance
is minimal. They were not eligible for loans from the MVLF. Efforts have
been started recently at the Governor's level to provide individual villages,
or more often groupings of villages with basic services financed partly with
locally raised capitation tax and livestock tax, and partly with special
Government funds (para. 2.11).
2.07      Upon becoming incorporated a village is given the right to tax.  It
thus becomes able to collect its own capitation, livestock and agricultural
production taxes, as well as property taxes and trade license fees. It also
becomes eligible for a share of a special central Government allocations from
the "Trust Fund" set up by the Government for the benefit of the local authori-
ties and made up of certain percentages of the custom and excise taxes. (In
1978 each incorporated village obtained JD 6,000 from this Fund regardless of
size.) This gives the village a constant source of funding against which it



can borrow from the CVDB. All village council budgets are reviewed annually
by the governor (or sub-governor) and are typically in the order of JD 10,000
to JD 15,000 per year. Upon obtaining municipal status, the local community
is enabled to collect, in addition to the taxes collected by village councils,
property taxes at the rate of 17% of the estimated annual rental value of all
properties wi Lhin its jurisdiction. Proceeds of the Trust Fund are disbursed
to municipalities on the basis of population, and other special factors.  A
small municipality, might receive 0.5% of that part of the Fund reserved for
municipalities (this amounted to JD 25,000 in 1978) whereas the city of Amman
receives 25% of the Fund.  Higher allocations from the Trust Fund in turn
enhance the municipalities' capacity to borrow from the CVDB and other external
sources such as commercial banks. Both villages and municipalities are able
to obtain revenues from productive projects such as the rental of land or
buildings. There are no adequate studies of municipal and village budgets.
An informal review of a sample of such budgets, however, indicates that the
budget per capita per year ranges from JD 6 for recently incorporated villages
to JD 18 for large municipalities.
Local Government Staffing and Operation
2.08      Village and municipal staffing varies according to the size of the
community and its fiscal resources. A community with a village council
typically employs up to three persons (secretary/treasurer, tax collector,
janitor). Larger municipalities will add maintenance workers, technicians,
engineers, physicians and veterinarians. The qualifications of the staff of
incorporated villages and small, recently established municipalities are
generally minimal. Little attention is paid to the training of administrative
staff or the development of all purpose rural development technicians.
2.09      Community governance itself ranges from the strictly tribal in
small village councils to the formal electoral in larger municipalities.
Formal elections are predominant in large towns where the population is
more heterogeneous and less tribal in nature. The governors and the MMRA
supervise the operations of municipalities and have the power to dissolve
elected councils and to appoint "committees"-to replace them, in cases such
as incompetence or malversation.
Local Decision Making
2.10      The decision making process at the village or municipal level in-
volves the identification of those projects which should be pursued with the
relevant authorities and agencies to ensure the provision of the financial
and technical assistance necessary for their realization. Villages and small
municipalities are almost completely dependent on the CVDB for funding and
thus pursue all their projects through the sub-governor, the governor and the
MMRA, each of which screens the projects according to his perceived degree of
priority. Overall, basic needs projects (water supply, school buildings,
health facilities and electrification, usually in that order of priority) are
rarely controversial and the identification and screening process appears
to take place relatively smoothly. When a municipality grows, and moves to



projects such as roads and productive facilities, the determination of priori-
ties becomes more difficult, making necessary more delicate interventions by
the administrative authorities. A positive future role for the CVDB may be
envisaged in this area. Municipalities or villages must have an approved
master plan before they are allowed to borrow from the CVDB for water supply,
electrification or road improvement projects. The preparation of these plans,
which might take between 12 and 18 months due to staff shortages within the
MMRA, presently represents a major bottleneck, particularly for rural elec-
trification (para. 2.26).
Proposed Local Administration Law
2.11      The Government is presently reviewing the local government admin-
istration and a draft bill has been prepared which is scheduled to be enacted
in the first half of 1980. The bill maintains the present cut-off point of
1,000 residents as the major criterion for incorporating villages and increases
the threshold population from 2,500 to 5,000 for the establishment of a
municipality. A major provision of the bill provides for the grouping of
neighboring unincorporated villages into legal entities with the right to an
allocation from the Trust Fund. The objective of the grouping is to establish
reasonable sized communities which can support common basic services such as
school and health facilities. These incorporated village groupings will also
be eligible to borrow from the CVDB. It is also proposed to discontinue
payments to the Amman Municipality from the Trust Fund, thus making substan-
tial additional funds available to the other municipalities and villages. In
the interim, the Government will continue its present practice of incorporat-
ing smaller villages to provide allocations from the Trust Fund and allow
borrowing from the CVDB for urgent projects.
Service Delivery Systems
2.12      Data Base.  There is no centralized and readily retrievable data
base on basic human needs and living conditions in the some 800 local communi-
ties of the East Bank. However, an initial base is provided by two recent
surveys prepared respectively by the MVLF and by the Cooperative for American
Relief Everywhere (CARE). These surveys are no more than inventories of
the social and physical infrastructure facilities in the municipalities
and villages. To strengthen the regional planning mechanisms (para. 2.26)
there is a need to complement the existing data base with relevant demographic
and economic information as well as with an assessment of the secondary and
local roads and public transportation systems which condition the availability
of shared facilities between villages. Available information shows that many
communities are still lacking in the infrastructure necessary to meet their
basic human needs. The communities give top priority to meeting these needs.
As the basic needs begin to be satisfied, the focus of the concerns of the
community generally moves toward directly productive projects and projects
such as street grading and paving, the construction of a village/ city hall or
community center. The service delivery systems for these various types of
projects are reviewed in the following paragraphs.



- 7 -
2.13      Water Supply.  Water is one of the scarcest resources in Jordan and
supplying safe water within reasonable access to residents at the local level
is the top priority. Only 36% of the unincorporated villages presently have
such services, with only minimal services being provided in certain regions
while 50% of the municipalities and incorporated villages have adequate access
to water supply. It is estimated that JD 6-9 million will need to be spent on
local water supply projects to provide adequate water distribution services.
2.14      It is the responsibility of the Natural Resources Authority (NRA)
to discover and develop water resources, and no development action can be
taken without its prior approval. Except in the city of Amman and the area
under the jurisdiction of Jordan Valley Authority (JVA), the supply of water
in the country is the responsibility of the Water Supply Corporation (WSC), a
public enterprise. However, the WSC does not have the financial and staffing
resources for the proper management of such a large scale activity. Because
of the present lack of finance, a variety of ad-hoc financial arrangements are
resorted to, ranging from cases where WSC finances the whole distribution
network to more frequently those where it provides water in bulk, leaving it
to the local community to finance its own distribution system. In the latter
case the local community, if a municipality or an incorporated village,
requests MMRA to prepare the designs and cost estimates in collaboration with
the WSC and to forward its loan application to CVDB. The division of labor in
this area between the MMRA and the WSC is relatively ad-hoc, being determined
by the work loads of the technical staffs of the two understaffed agencies.
For unincorporated villages, the financing of water distribution systems
generally involves sources such as WSC grants, the Governor's Village Improve-
ment Fund, support from charitable organizations and local community self-help.
After completion of the project under supervision of the WSC or the MMRA,
network maintenance is left to the local community (which results in frequent
problems due to the lack of technical skills at the local level). The resale
of water by the municipalities or village councils usually results in addi-
tional revenues to the community, although system losses and metering problems
are often cited as reasons for profits not materializing. In remote areas
where traditional piped water supply systems or wells are not economically
feasible, the WSC delivers water through its fleet of about 150 road tankers.
The whole system of control and delivery of water resources in Jordan is
currently under review (with Bank assistance) and the creation of a National
Water Supply Authority and preparation of a water master plan are under
consideration by the Government.
2.15      Education.  The Government of Jordan has placed a high priority on
education, with the result that almost all children of school age in Jordan
have access to at least primary (grades 1-6) and preparatory (grades 7-9)
education. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for establishing
priorities for the development of educational facilities. A Five-Year Educa-
tional Plan (1976-80) is under implementation and a Six-Year Plan (1981-86)
is under preparation. The municipalities and villages (except the 13 cities
which are the seats of governorates or sub-governorates) are responsible for
the provision of school building up to grade 9. CVDB provides financing for
this purpose, but the debt service on the loan is shared equally between the
village and MOE. The financing of building for the 13 seats of governorates



- 8 -
and for unincorporated villages is provided by Government grants. MOE pro-
vides the staffing for these schools and is responsible for all educational
facilities beyond grade 9. Implementation of school building projects
financed by CVDB is undertaken by MMRA.
2.16      A national survey of school buildings, financed under the Second
Education Project (Credit 534-JO), reveals the very poor conditions which have
resulted from the extensive use of rented buildings (37% of these under the
MOE in 1978), especially in overcrowded urban areas. Preliminary estimates
suggest that enrollment in the primary and preparatory cycles will increase at
a rate of about 15,000 per year in the municipalities and villages outside of
the 13 seats of governorates. It is estimated that about 60% of these addi-
tional pupils will need to be accommodated in new school buildings with an
average expenditure per pupil of about JD 150, requiring an annual expendi-
ture in the order of JD 1.35 million. Additional amounts will be required to
replace inadequate rented facilities and to reduce the number of school build-
ings operating on a two-shift schedule. Other constraints that will need to
be addressed include the lack of teachers willing to live in the rural areas,
the lack of adequate housing for such personnel, transportation problems for
pupils attending school outside their villages, and poor maintenance of build-
ings particularly in remote areas.
2.17      Health Facilities.  The country is relatively well covered with
health facilities including 21 hospitals or comprehensive health centers, 45
basic health centers and 266 village clinics. Comprehensive health centers
include as a minimum the services of a resident physician, a clinic, a mother
and child health center, and the provision of dental and basic laboratory
services and support personnel. Basic health centers generally consist only
of a clinic, a resident physician and a medical assistant. Physicians visit
village clinics only once or twice a week for limited periods of time and
leave the basic operation of the clinics to primary health workers. The
distribution of basic medicines is also ensured by the health centers and
the village clinics. Emphasis in both health centers and village clinics is
primarily on curative medicine, while mother and child health centers concen-
trate on nutrition and preventive medicine. 1/ The most serious problem
is currently the shortage of doctors, nurses and paramedics willing to work
in the rural areas.
2.18      The Ministry of Health (MOH) is preparing a National Health Plan for
1981-85, which is expected to establish priorities and a strategy for the
development of health facilities throughout the country. Over JD 1 million in
investment cost is expected to be spent annually on basic health centers and
village clinics, with the objective of providing a village clinic for every
village with more than 500 inhabitants. While the MOH must authorize the
1/   The most widespread disease treated in clinics and health centers (up
to 50% of the cases treated) is gastroenteritis, generally related to
water quality and nutrition problems.



- 9 -
construction of medical centers and is then responsible for providing staffing,
the local communities have to provide the physical facilities. CVDB provides
loans for this purpose and MMRA supervises construction of the facilities.
2.19      Electrification.  The generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity in dAl parts of Jordan, except for Amman and the Irbid region, is
the responsibility of the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA), a Government
institution. Private companies hold concessions for the distribution of
electricity in the two excluded areas. JEA plans to complete the national
power grid by 1987. Assisted by consultants, JEA has already prepared a
national rural electrification plan which is scheduled for completion in 1982.
When this plan is completed about 70% of the total population will have access
to public power supply. The low voltage distribution network was financed by
the villages with loans from MVLF. However, the JEA has now assumed total
responsibility for designing, financing and implementing all rural electrifi-
cation projects and CVDB has discontinued its financing in this sector.
2.20      Roads.  A USAID-financed Master Road Plan 1978-82 prepared by
consultants for the Ministry of Public Works (MOPW) assesses the present
situation of the rural elements of the Jordanian major road system. The
report concluded that the secondary road system and the rural collector road
system are deficient. Other estimates suggest that about 1,800 km of non-
asphalted rural roads would need to be constructed or rehabilitated at a total
coSt ranging from JD 10.9 million to JD 14.5 million. The MOPW is responsible
for the construction and financing of primary and secondary arterial roads and
rural collector roads in the country. Rural roads within the limits of the
municipalities and villages are left for these communities to finance and
build and so CVDB's contribution to the financing of the national rural road
system would be marginal. Municipalities and incorporated villages may apply
for loans for this purpose from the CVDB through the MMRA, which then prepares
the designs and cost estimates and supervises project implementation.  Rela-
tively little activity has been taking place in this field, which appears to
have received low priority within the MMRA and the old MVLF.
2.21      Public Transportation.  Some municipalities and villages (partic-
ularly groupings of villages sharing common facilities such as schools or
clinics) have organized bus services for their residents. However, there
is no specialized central government institution to assist local authorities
with this type of project and financing has been organized on an ad-hoc basis.
(The Jordan Cooperative Organization has made one loan to a group of villages
organized into a cooperative for this purpose). No MVLF loan has been
extended so far for a public transportation project.
2.22      Productive Projects.  Productive projects are income-generating
facilities, contributing directly to an increase in economic production.
These include covered markets, storage facilities (in particular refrigerated
warehouses), slaughterhouses, industrial estates and workshops. Only ten
commercial centers, nine vegetable markets, ten cattle markets, 17 slaughter-
houses and twelve car parks could be identified in municipalities outside of
Amman. The only existing industrial estate is in Irbid, largely financed with



- 10 -
commercial bank loans.  It is clear that more productive projects could be
promoted, although no estimate of their investment costs is presently avail-
able. However, these types of projects are difficult for the local authorities
to identify, design and implement as they require more entrepreneurship and
sophistication, and have no obvious single institutional sponsor for either
financing or technical assistance. This is a particular gap that the CVDB
should fill in cooperation with other specialized credit institutions
interested in rural development. A study on how to generate more productive
projects is included as part of the technical assistance activities proposed
to be financed under the project (para. 5.02). Currently, the MMRA is in
charge of assisting municipalities in the design and implementation of
their productive facilities.
2.23      Other Projects.  Other projects realized at the local level are more
concerned with improving the quality of life and include community centers,
parks and playgrounds, and beautification of public places. Municipalities
and incorporated villages may obtain CVDB loans for such projects and receive
technical assistance from the MMRA.
Regional Planning
2.24      A general need exists for coordinating the planning efforts con-
ducted separately by the Government ministries and agencies, and for coor-
dinating the development of infrastructure and public services with the
development prospects for economic activities at the regional level. The most
advanced regional planning mechanism already existing in Jordan is the Jordan
Valley Authority (JVA) created in 1972 to prepare and implement a rehabilita-
tion and development plan for the East Jordan Valley. JVA is currently imple-
menting the 1975-82 Jordan Valley Development Plan, which is an integrated
rural development program, assisted by numerous donor Governments and agencies.
The existing 60 scattered settlements of the valley (total population of
87,000) are to be consolidated into 36 municipalities or incorporated villages.
In 1978 JVA was also given authority over the Southern Ghors (estimated popu-
lation of about 12,000).
2.25      There are three other regional planning efforts taking place:
(a) The Amman Urban Region Planning Project, which started in 1977
is training Jordanian regional planners and preparing the first
Amman Urban Region Development Plan for inclusion in the next
Five-Year National Plan (1981-85).
(b) The Northern Region Planning Project, which started in 1978 has
already produced a draft regional plan, identifying projects suit-
able for the 1981-85 National Plan. The second phase of this
project, currently under implementation, is to prepare feasibility
studies on selected priority projects.
(c) An Aqaba Region Project is just getting underway and a team of
experts has recently been appointed to prepare a development plan
for this region.



- 11 -
2.26      In late 1979, the Government established the Directorate of Regional
Planning in the MMRA to implement a common framework for all regional planning
efforts. The new agency will set general guidelines, objectives and criteria
for regional development, prepare master plans for urbanized areas, as well as
planning and development legislations and regulations. A Director has recently
been appointed and it is proposed to establish a staff of about jO profes-
sionals including the staff presently working on the Amman and Northern
regional plans. Also regional committees are to be established in each
governorate, which would be responsible for supervising the implementation of
regional development plans. These committees are to be headed by the governor,
and are to include representatives of the Government departments and local
communities.
Other Specialized Credit Institutions
2.27      Besides the CVDB, there are three specialized credit institutions in
Jordan which could cooperate in identifying and financing projects that can
assist the development of municipalities and villages. This cooperation has
already begun through the establishment in 1977 of the Development Credit
Council composed of representatives of the Government and the credit institu-
tions. The following is a brief description of the other specialized credit
institutions.
(i)  Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC).  The ACC was estab-
lished in 1960 and is wholly owned by the Government. It has
received two IDA credits in 1963 and 1967 totalling $6
million. It makes medium and long-term loans to private
farmers and agricultural companies. The potential for
cooperation with CVDB is perhaps greater in the case of ACC
than the other institutions. Its branches should be in a
position to identify the need for such projects as markets or
storage facilities in various locations in the country.
(ii)  Industrial Development Bank (IDB).  The IDB was established
in 1965 jointly by the Government (minority) and the private
sector (majority). It received an IDA credit of $4.0 million
in 1976. It provides financing to privately-owned industrial
projects. In 1975 it established a special fund to lend to
small scale industries. One area where it can cooperate with
CVDB is in industrial estates; a village or municipality can
establish such an estate and the IDB can provide finance to
the individual entrepreneurs.
(iii)  Jordan Cooperative Organization (JCO).  The JCO was estab-
lished in 1968 by the Government to coordinate and encourage
the cooperative movement in Jordan, and to provide credit to
cooperative societies. Almost half of the over 300 societies
are agricultural, with the others being housing, thrift
and credit, vocational and consumer. Most, but not all, of
the JCO's lending activity is with agricultural societies.



- 12 -
Its activities, therefore, can and often do overlap with those
of the other three specialized credit institutions. It thus
has potential for cooperation with CVDB.
Cost of Capital
2.28      Despite widely fluctuating inflation rates in previous years, Jordan
has had a relatively stable structure of interest rates on loans and deposits.
This was partly due to regulations issued by the Central Bank (credit-deposit
ratios, minimal reserve requirements, discount rates, etc.) and amended from
time to time to reflect the money supply situation and foreign exchange flows.
Interest rates on commercial bank loans have stabilized since 1974 at around
9% (excluding various charges and commissions) while rates charged on cus-
tomers' overdrafts increased from 7 to 8.5% between 1975 and 1977. In the
same period the rates obtainable on term deposits increased from 4.5 to 5.5%
for savings, from 5.5 to 6.1% for time deposits. Interest rates currently
charged by the specialized credit institution range from 5% p.a. for the
Housing Corporation to 8.5% p.a. (plus commissions) for the Housing Bank.
IDB's loans (excluding small-scale industry loans) now carry annual interest
rates of 8% (plus 1% p.a. commission) as compared to 7% in 1975, while the ACC
and JCO charge 7% and 6-7.5% p.a., respectively. CVDB's rates are described
in para. 5.11 and range from 4.5% to 7% p.a. (plus 1% p.a. commission).
2.29      Annual rates of inflation as estimated by the Central Bank of Jordan
increased from 5% in 1971 to around 20% in 1974 and were estimated at 12%, 15%
and 14.5%, respectively in 1975, 1976 and 1977. Inflation was brought down to
7% in 1978, and is estimated by the Bank at 12% for 1979 and projected at 10%
through 1980 and 8% in 1981 while in the years 1982-85 it is projected to
range between 6.5 and 7.5%. These figures indicate that interest rates
currently prevailing are significantly negative in real terms and have been so
for a number of years.
2.30      Consultations between the Government, CVDB and the Bank on the
proposed interest rate structure were held during project preparation. MVLF
charged a flat interest rate of 5.5% on loans to municipalities and 4.5% for
villages regardless of sector. As part of MVLF transformation, it was decided
that CVDB should introduce a structure of interest rates which would distin-
guish between sectors. CVDB will charge an interest rate (including a 1%
commission), of 8% for productive projects, 7.5% for public utility projects
and 7% for social infrastructure projects located in municipalities. Compar-
able rates for projects located in villages are 6.5%, 6% and 5.5% respectively.
Loan maturities will range between 10-15 years depending on the sector,
including a grace period of up to 2 years. The actual inflation rate in
Jordan was 7% in 1978, and is estimated at 12% for 1979 and projected at 10%
for 1980 and 8% for 1981 and 1982.  Inflation rates are expected to range
between 6 and 7% for the years 1983-85. Therefore, on the average, interest
rates charged by CVDB would be between 0.5 and 1.5% negative in real terms for
projects in municipalities and 1.5% lower for projects in villages when
compared with projected inflation rates in the next three years. However,
these proposals are significant and reasonable when compared to the previously



- 13 -
prevailing rates and to the financial arrangements for similar projects in
most LDCs which are usually financed by Government grants. Besides, CVDB
interest rates for productive projects are comparable to those charged by the
Industrial Development Bank (9%), the Agricultural Credit Corporation (7%) and
by the Jordan Cooperative Organization (6.5-7%). The Government intends to
review CVDB's l'iterest rate structure after two years of operations to see
whether it is appropriate in the framework of cost of resources and the
interest rates being charged by other credit institutions in Jordan.
CHAPTER III: CVDB - THE INSTITUTION
Objectives and Functions
3.01.     CVDB has been established to assist villages and municipalities
in the identification, preparation, implementation and operation of projects
designed to (i) meet the basic human needs of the less developed segments of
the population in the country; (ii) raise the living standards of rural and
urban groups by providing improved infrastructure services; (iii) create
through the establishment of productive projects local employment opportuni-
ties in rural areas; and (iv) improve income distribution by integrating the
less developed areas in the nation development process. Besides assisting in
the preparation and financing of projects, the CVDB will also provide local
authorities with technical assistance and training so that they can carry out
their functions more efficiently and economically. CVDB will also continue
MVLF's function by acting as trustee on the Trust Fund (para. 2.07) resources
allocated to municipalities and incorporated villages.
3.02      To achieve these objectives the CVDB is empowered to provide
financing to villages and municipalities in the form of long-term loans or,
in the case of entities owned by them, equity participations and to guaran-
tee loans and manage funds made available by other sources to its borrowers.
All of its activities are to be in the framework of regional and sectoral
plans, and in accordance with priorities established by the Government. CVDB
is expected to play a promotional role in the field of productive, revenue-
earning, employment-generating projects, as its borrowers (with the exception
of the major municipalities) normally lack relevant expertise and entrepre-
neurial skills to identify and conceive such projects. For public utility and
social infrastructure projects, municipalities and villages will continue to
depend upon the work presently being undertaken by Government Ministries and
agencies for project preparation and implementation. The project's technical
proposal, arrangements for implementation and subsequent operation and mainte-
nance, financial and economic viability of the project will be prepared by the
existing Ministries and agencies. MMRA will continue to be responsible for
reviewing these projects to ensure that they are appropriate in the light of
sectoral and regional priorities. CVDB will immediately undertake responsi-
bility to ensure that the projects are suitable in the light of local needs,
future community plans and resources available. CVDB will also review the



- 14 -
project proposals to ensure that the technical, managerial and financial
aspects have been evaluated (para. 3.19). CVDB's contribution to this latter
review is bound to be limited in the initial stage but will gradually improve
as its staff gain maturity through training and experience.
Legal Framework
3.03.     The CVDB Law of November 1979 has established CVDB as a public
institution enjoying semi-autonomous administrative and financial status. It
is the legal and factual successor to the MVLF. Eligible borrowers from CVDB
are defined in the law as municipalities, incorporated villages, and entities
such as corporations owned by eligible borrowers. Joint Services Commissions
(para. 2.05) are also eligible to borrow. The CVDB law stipulates that funds
collected on behalf of villages and municipalities by the Central Government
(the "Trust Fund") shall be transferred to CVDB on a monthly basis and serve
as collateral for any loans advanced to its borrowers. Any funds in excess
of this requirement can be withdrawn by the local authorities. The law also
specifies the conditions under which local and foreign resources can be raised
by CVDB. As with other public institutions, CVDB enjoys exemption from
taxation, duties and postal fees.
3.04      As a result of discussions with Bank staff on CVDB's legal framework,
the new law represents a substantial improvement over MVLF statutes.  Two
points however are still ambiguous:
(a)  The capital ownership structures is described in vague terms and
no distinction is made between authorized and issued capital; and
(b)  The authority of the General Manager needs to be clearly defined,
particularly to provide that the General Manager has sole discre-
tion for presentation of projects for Board's approval.
The present capital structure will not affect CVDB's operations in the near
future and so it was agreed that the matter would be clarified by an amendment
to the law to be enacted by December 31, 1981. It was also agreed that the
authority of the General Manager would be incorporated in the Executive
Regulations (by-laws) which will be adopted by CVDB Board prior to loan
effectiveness.
3.05      An important objective of the Bank was to secure approval for CVDB
to assist unincorporated villages in providing basic infrastructure and social
services. These villages have a combined population of about 200,000 and
represent about 25% of the rural population of Jordan. To solve this problem
the Government is preparing the Local Administration Law which will incorporate
neighboring villages into legal entities, provide them with an allocation from
the Trust Fund, thereby making them eligible to borrow from CVDB (para. 2.11).
Ownership
3.06      The CVDB's authorized share capital of JD 10 million ($34 million
equivalent) is proposed to be divided into two classes of shares, those which



- 15 -
only the Government can hold (amounting to 75% of the total) and those which
only CVDB's principal borrowers (municipalities) can hold (25%). Upon its
formation CVDB's paid-up share capital consisted only of Government-held
shares totalling about JD 5,600 million ($19 million) and representing its
previous holding in the MVLF. The Government has agreed to increase its
equity interest in CVDB over the next several years by an annual contribution
of JD 200,000 ($680,000).
3.07      The Government has also agreed that the municipalities will contri-
bute annually JD 400,000 ($1,360,000) to CVDB's equity from funds available in
the Trust Fund. The CVDB Law provides that these shares will receive a yearly
dividend while the Government-held shares are to receive no dividends. A
dividend rate of 10% per annum on municipalities investment has been assumed
in the financial projections.
Board of Directors
3.08      The CVDB is administered by a Board of nine Directors comprising
the Minister of MMRA (Chairman), CVDB's General Manager (Vice-Chairman),
three representatives from the MMRA, MOPW and Ministry of Finance appointed
by the respective Ministers, two representatives from the Central Bank and
the NPC appointed by the agencies' Heads, and two representatives of CVDB's
borrowers appointed by the Council of Ministers upon the recommendation of
MMRA (a representation roughly in line with their potential shareholding).
Board resolutions are adopted by a majority vote of members present, the
quorum being at least six members. The Board's main authorities and functions
are to (i) determine CVDB's overall policy; (ii) promulgate operational and
staff regulations; (iii) approve loans and other financial assistance; (iv)
appoint auditors; and (v) recommend capital increases. In addition, the Board
may set up ad hoc committees of directors and staff members to which it may
delegate some of its powers.
Management and Staff
3.09      The CVDB's chief executive officer is the General Manager appointed
by a decree of the Council of Ministers upon the recommendation of the Minister
of MMRA. He is responsible for implementing CVDB's general policy and Board
resolutions, and may exercise any prerogative authorized by the Board and/
or delegated by the Chairman. A qualified Acting General Manager, who has
closely been associated with the preparation of the project for the last year
and who has considerable commercial banking experience, has been appointed in
February 1980.
3.10      CVDB will need to strengthen its managerial structure and acquire
developing banking expertise. To achieve this objective CVDB has agreed to
recruit an advisor with development banking experience by July 31, 1980. A
possible candidate for the latter post has been identified. The Government is
seeking financing for the advisor from multilateral sources and if suitable
financing is not available, financing of this position is provided for in the
Bank loan.



- 16 -
3.11      Under the CVDB Law, the entire staff of the MVLF (about 40 people)
have been transferred to the CVDB. As the function of the MVLF was essen-
tially an accounting one, these are the positions being filled by this staff.
The salary level of MVLF was grossly inadequate to attract staff of the
proper calibre. CVDB is authorized to establish staff regulations including
salary scales a.. benefits subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers.
The Board of CVDB has adopted a new salary scale and benefits in line with
that paid by the Central Bank of Jordan and this benefit package is considered
adequate to attract qualified staff. The salary scales have still to be
approved by the Council of Ministers but in the interim CVDB is empowered to
offer contracts to potential employees providing salaries and benefits in
accordance with the new scale. On approval of the salary scale by the Council
of Ministers such staff would automatically come under the CVDB salary struc-
ture and their contracts cancelled.
3.12      Agreement has been reached that CVDB will engage the following key
professional staff with suitable qualifications and experience as a first step
in its development:
Project Economists (1)
Financial Analysts (2)
Engineers (2)
Accountants (3)
A detailed timetable for recruitment of this staff prior to September 30,
1980 was agreed on during negotiations.
3.13      The training requirements of CVDB's new staff will depend on the
qualifications and experience of the personnel that CVDB is able to employ.
In view of the limited development banking experience that is likely to be
available within CVDB, training both on-the-job and external is likely to be
required, and is an important focus of the proposed project. A convenient
source for training and technical assistance to CVDB is the IDB, an experi-
enced and well run development bank (para. 2.27(ii)). In-house training at
IDB can be provided for CVDB staff members, as well as formal training courses
at the Jordanian Institute of Management, a recently established affiliate of
the IDB. Included in the technical assistance component of the proposed loan
are funds to cover the foreign cost of training for CVDB staff. Until the
staff is appointed and becomes, at all levels, familiar and conversant with
development banking operations, an expert projects advisor will be available
(para. 5.06). CVDB has agreed to submit its proposed training program to the
Bank for comment by September 30, 1980. Funding for the foreign exchange cost
of training is provided for under the loan. It is anticipated that two or
three key staff members will attend appropriate EDI courses.  It is also
planned for the Bank's Projects staff in the water supply, roads and education
fields to visit CVDB and/or Government Ministry for a day or two, in conjunc-
tion with their regular missions to Jordan, to review the project appraisal
and to provide technical assistance.



- 17 -
Organization
3.14      CVDB is to be organized along functional lines with four Depart-
ments, each headed by a Manager who reports to the General Manager.
The Department of Economic and Technical Affairs includes a centralized
Appraisal Division and a Supervision Division with field inspectors. The
Loan Department consists of the Planning and Research Division which
prepares annual lending programs and financial and operational projections
after coordinating with the sectoral and regional plans of the specialized
agencies and ministries and the Programs Division which assists CVDB's
borrowers in determining their needs and project priorities and which formu-
lates overall lending programs for each community. The Financial Department
has responsibility for loan disbursements and repayments, for preparing and
implementing annual borrowing programs and for managing CVDB's short-term
portfolio. The Administration Department includes the Personnel and Services
Divisions. In addition, an Internal Audit and Evaluation Unit will later be
established to monitor CVDB's progress in meeting its objections. Adoption of
the Executive Regulations (by-law) to enable the implementation of the organi-
zation structure is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Policies
3.15      A policy statement was drafted in consultation with the Bank
enunciating CVDB's operational and lending policies. This policy statement
has been adopted by CVDB's Board. Future amendments to the policy statement
are subject to prior Bank approval.
3.16      The policy statement establishes certain criteria which projects
must meet to be eligible for financial assistance. Besides being technically,
financially and economically viable, projects must (i) fit into sectoral and
regional priorities; (ii) be appropriate in light of the borrowers' needs and
financial resources; and (iii) be acceptable to and supported by the local
community. In addition, the borrower is required to make a contribution in
cash or services towards the total cost of the project.
3.17      In order to ensure a fair allocation of CVDB's resources among its
large number of potential borrowers, and to avoid a disproportionate share
of its portfolio being concentrated in a few, large projects located in the
bigger and more developed municipalities, the policy statement limits CVDB's
total exposure in a single project to 1% of its paid-in capital and free
reserves (about $200,000 equivalent at the moment) and its total exposure
in a single borrower to 10% of the same base (about $2 million equivalent).
CVDB will not devote more than 25% of its paid-in capital to equity invest-
*        ments, will not take a controlling interest in or management responsibility
for any entity, and will sell its equity investments whenever appropriate.
Exceptions to these limits may be allowed by the Board in special circum-
stances.
3.18      The policy statement provides that CVDB will make special efforts
to identify and finance productive projects. It will not take the exchange
risk on any foreign borrowings. It will limit its total borrowings to four



- 18 -
times its equity. Finally, the policy statement provides that CVDB will
follow a prudent reserve policy, including annual appropriations to a provi-
sion for doubtful debts.
Lending Procedures
3.19      Appraisal.  The appraisal tasks of CVDB's Project Department will be
in accordance with guidelines agreed with the Bank and will vary according to
the type of project being considered. For productive projects CVDB will be
involved throughout the entire project cycle, starting at the identification
stage. All aspects of project appraisal including technical and financial
viability, market and economic merit will be carried out by CVDB, with assis-
tance from outside experts and consultants when special fields are involved
(para. 5.06). In addition, calculation of the working capital, where appro-
priate, and cash flow analyses to justify proposed debt service would be
required. Calculation of the financial rate of return will also be under-
taken. For public utilities and social infrastructure projects, CVDB will
review the appraisal reports of the specialized agencies and will ensure that
the proposed project has priority in the light of financial resources avail-
able to the community from the Trust Fund and other sources. In reviewing
road projects CVDB will further ensure that the design criteria is appropriate
and that the necessary financing has been provided and arrangements made for
future maintenance. For water supply and sanitation projects CVDB will ensure
that the least cost design has been adopted, that reasonable access to the
service is available to all members of the community, review the proposed cost
recovery system to ensure that it is equitable and sufficient to yield, at a
minimum, revenue to meet the projected operating and maintenance costs, and
that adequate provisions have been made for the operation and maintenance of
the system. In the case of school buildings and clinics and other social
facilities CVDB will ensure that the sizing of the facility is appropriate
and that the possibility of sharing these facilities with the neighboring
communities have been examined where appropriate.
3.20      Supervision.  Follow-up of CVDB financed projects will be an impor-
tant focus of CVDB's activities and a direct means of ensuring efficient use
of resources, timely execution of works and satisfactory operatior. of projects.
CVDB will have full responsibility for the supervision of productive projects,
while the supervision, especially technical, of public utility and social
infrastructure projects will still be mainly entrusted to the relevant tech-
nical agencies and ministries. Though specific supervision procedures have
yet to be developed by CVDB, CVDB field inspectors, as well as those from the
technical agencies and ministries, will pay regular visits to project sites
during construction and submit reports on the status of work and compliance
with loan conditions. Borrowers will also be required to submit regular
reports on their projects' status as well as financial or other appropriate
statements on their projects' condition.
3 1      Procurement.  Under Government regulations all tenders for projects
undertaken by villages or municipalities must be advertised for aL least three
days in two local newspapers.  Under its loan agreements with bortowers, CVDB's



- 19 -
prior approval of the terms and conditions of tenders is required. A committee
at the village or municipality level reviews the bids that are received and
forwards its recommendation as to which to accept to the MMRA if the contract
exceeds JD 5,000 ($17,000 equivalent) or to the district governor if it is
smaller, for approval. Recommendations sent to the MMRA are reviewed by the
Directorate of Works and Engineering Services before being forwarded to the
Minister for approval. These procedures are satisfactory, especially in view
of the typically small size of projects (few will be above $150,000) and are
very unlikely to interest foreign contractors.
3.22      Disbursement.  Disbursements are made on the basis of satisfactory
evidence of actual expenditures or, for civil works, on the basis of certifi-
cates indicating progress made following a site visit. These procedures are
satisfactory. Disbursement under the proposed loan is discussed in para. 5.16.
3.23      Accounting System and Audit.  A double entry accounting system is
being implemented by CVDB in lieu of the single entry system used in the past
by the MVLF.  CVDB has secured the services of an experienced consulting firm
to assist in this transition, including administrative and accounting proce-
dures and forms. This firm will also conduct a training program for CVDB's
accounting staff. The first time MVLF's accounts were audited by independent
outside auditors was for the year ending December 31, 1978. This audit was
carried out by Saba & Co., a firm known and acceptable to the Bank. Saba &
Co. or another firm acceptable to the Bank will be required tc undertake an
annual audit of CVDB's accounts and certificates of expenditure issued to the
Bank (para. 5.16).
CHAPTER IV: CVDB - OPERATIONS AND FINANCES
Past Operations
4.01      Since it began operations in 1966 through the end of 1978 the MVLF
had made close to 1,200 loans totalling JD 13.8 million. Most of these were
for school buildings (45% of the total number), electricity (18%) and water
(11%). The other loans were made for a variety of purposes including roads,
public buildings, sewerage systems, health clinics, and a small number of
public parks, office buildings, retail shops, cold stores and small irrigation
systems. A table summarizing MVLF's lending activities since 1974 is presented
in Annex 1. The proportion of MVLF's funds lent to villages as opposed to
municipalities has shown a fairly steady increase over the years, rising from
3% in 1966 to 30% in 1978. This trend reflects the growing awareness among
village councils of the MVLF's potential to assist as well as efforts, espe-
cially on the part of the most recent General Manager, to establish contact
with the villages. In recent years almost 10% in terms of amounts lent by
MVLF have been for projects on the West Bank. In 1979, however, the Govern-
ment decided to cease funding any new projects on the West Bank. Funds for
these loans to the West Bank have been provided to MVLF through special
allocations in the Government's yearly budget, and repayments to MVLF have
also been provided from the budget. The Government has undertaken to repay
these loans in accordance with the original amortization schedule.



- 20 -
Financial Position
4.02       MVLF's audited balance sheet at December 31, 1978, and income state-
ment for the year 1978 are presented in Annexes 2 and 3. MVLF's financial
statements are being audited as of December 31, 1979, the date it was formally
replaced by Cr. .  As of December 31, 1978, MVLF's equity amounted to JD 5.31
million. MVLF's local long-term debts consisted of a loan from the Central
Bank of JD 0.51 million bearing 3% interest, and of a small loan from the
Ministry of Finance. Foreign long-term debts consisted mainly of an IDA
credit of JD 0.49 million 1/ (and small loans from KWF and US Government). In
addition MVLF has an interest free advance from the "Trust Fund" of about JD 1
million, to be repaid in ten equal annual installments as of 1980. As of
December 31, 1978, MVLF's loan portfolio amounted to JD 7.46 million, includ-
ing outstanding loans of JD 0.89 million to the West Bank of Jordan. From its
inception through 1978, MVLF made no provisions for doubtful debts, as MVLF's
loans are secured by the "Trust Fund" where the borrowers' shares serve as
collaterals for all loans. As of 1979, however, a provision for doubtful
debts will be made at a yearly level of up to 1% until cumulative provisions
reach 3% of the loan portfolio. MVLF has in addition provided in 1976, 1977
and 1978 three loans from Government Special Funds for sewerage projects of
respectively JD 1 million, JD 0.7 million and JD 1 million to two major cities
in Jordan. As managed funds, these loans are not included in the portfolio.
Resources from the "Trust Fund", deposited with MVLF on behalf of the Local
Authorities, are also managed funds not included in MVLF's balance sheet.
Forecast of Operations and Financial Performance
4.03      A forecast of CVDB's lending activities is presented in Annex 1.  For
simplicity, possible equity investments are not included; there are likely to
be only a few in the next several years. This forecast is based essentially
on MVLF's past activities, though productive projects are forecast to increase
to 25% of total lending by 1982. In any case, with the exception of productive
projects where a special emphasis will be placed, the sectoral forecast should
be considered indicative only. The percentage of loans to villages is forecast
to continue to grow from the 30% achieved in 1978 to 40% in 1983. The average
size of projects is also expected to increase by 10% per year reflecting inter
alia inflation. Productive projects especially are expected to be larger than
in the past. Disbursement patterns are forecast to follow past experience.
4.04       The level of activity indicated in Annex 1 will result in a satis-
factory level of profitability. Forecast income statements are presented
in Annex 3. Administrative expenses amounting to JD 57,000 in 1978 and esti-
mated at JD 66,000 in 1979 are projected to increase sharply to JD 158,000
and JD 228,000 in 1980 and 1981 respectively, as new staff for CVDB is hired,
1/   These funds represent amounts repaid by the beneficiaries of the IDA
credit for water supply to the Municipal Loan Fund (a Government Depart-
ment which formed the nucleus of the MVLF) but are not yet due to IDA.



- 21 -
and to increase by around 10% per annum thereafter. CVDB net profits amount-
ing to JD 324,000 in 1978 (about 6% of year-end equity) are projected to
decline to JD 230,000 (3.3% of equity) in 1980 and to JD 193,000 (2.8% of
equity) in 1981, as a result of sharp increase in administration expenses,
provision for doubtful debts and interests paid on borrowings. As of 1982 the
trend of profitability would be reversed as net profits would increase to JD
243,000 (3.2% of equity) in 1982 and to JD 326,000 in 1983 (3.8% of equity).
As of 1980 however, CVDB would be paying a 10% dividend on the Municipalities'
shares in CVDB. The balance of net profits will be allocated to CVDB's
reserves.
4.05       CVDB's financial position is expected to remain sound.  The forecast
balance sheets (Annex 2) indicate that the de&,t i) equity ratio will remain
below 0.5 through 1983. CVDB's loan portfolio is projected to increase from
JD 7.5 million in 1978 to JD 13.1 million in 1983 covering loans for munici-
palities and villages in the East Bank of Jordan. As repayment of West Bank
loans will be directly assumed by the Government, outstanding West Bank loans
have been written off the portfolio. In the financial forecasts, repayments
of the loans have been credited, as installments fall due, to Government
equity. In addition provisions for doubtful debts will increase from JD 80,000
in 1979 to JD 400,000 in 1983 (3% of total portfolio).
Resource Reauirements
4.06      As indicated in the forecast sources and applications of funds
(Annex 4), CVDB will be able to finance its lending activities over the
period 1979-83 from loan repayments, the proposed Bank loan, the increase
in its equity capital (Government's and muncipalities' contributions) and
borrowings from the Central Bank. CVDB's equity will increase each year
through a Government contribution of JD 200,000 and through subscriptions
from municipalities of JD 400,000 (see paras. 3.06-3.07). These subscriptions
by the municipalities will bring their ownership of CVDB to the 25% provided
for in the CVDB Law around 1985. With Government agreement, CVDB will repay
the interest-free advance from the Trust Fund in ten equal installments
starting in 1980.  The proposed Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
end 1984 (Annex 5). After this time CVDB would be able to continue funding
its activities through loans from the Central Bank though these would not
provide CVDB with the foreign exchange needed for its projects. This require-
ment is likely to grow as a percentage of CVDB's total lending as it becomes
more involved with larger productive projects.
CHAPTER V: THE PROJECT
Objectives
5.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to provide financial and
technical assistance to the CVDB so that, in turn, it can assist the villages
and municipalities with their development projects; the objectives of CVDB are
described more fully in para. 3.01.



- 22 -
5.02      As the identification and preparation of productive projects is a
new stage in the development of most villages and municipalities, there is
little experience in this field in Jordan. The technical assistance component
of the proposed loan includes funds to finance a study of ways and means to
increase the number of such projects that are identified by CVDB, its clients
or others and then presented to CVDB for appraisal and possible financing.
Terms of reference for such a study have been agreed with CVDB and the consul-
tants will be engaged by December 31, 1980.
5.03      Particular emphasis has been and will continue to be given to
building CVDB into an semi-autonomous institution with a strong staff capable
of making independent investment and other decisions. The technical assistance
component of the proposed loan includes funds for training CVDB staff members.
Additional assistance will be provided through the normal supervision process,
including special procedures for reviewing appraisal reports submitted to the
Bank (see paras. 5.13-5.14).
Use of the Proceeds of the Proposed Loan
5.04      The portion of the proposed loan earmarked for on-lending to CVDB's
subprojects ($9.5 million equivalent) will be used to cover 50% of CVDB's
subloans to eligible subprojects. An eligible subproject can be located
anywhere in the Kingdom provided that CVDB is able to appraise it as described
in para. 3.19 and supervise it throughout the life of its subloan. It can be
in any sector provided that, were it of an appropriate size, it would qualify
for direct Bank Group lending; only a few of CVDB's subprojects, for example
parks or playgrounds, are expected not to qualify under this criterion.
The local procurement arrangements are satisfactory for the Bank loan (para.
3.21).
5.05      The portion of CVDB's subloans to be financed from the proposed Bank
loan is based on the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange component
of all of CVDB's subloans, averaged over all the sectors. Based on the
sectoral forecasts of CVDB's approvals presented in Annex 1 and on estimates
of the foreign exchange components for each sector, the contribution to be
provided by the villages and municipalities themselves and the split of
approvals between villages and municipalities (35% to villages during the
commitment period of the loan), this percentage is estimated at about 57%.
Given however the desirability of providing for a commitment period of about
two years to ensure an effective transfer of technical assistance from the
Bank to CVDB, this percentage has been reduced to 50%. The proposed final
date for submission of subproject is December 31, 1982 and the closing date
December 31, 1984.
5.06      Provision has been made in the Bank loan for $0.5 million for tech-
nical assistance. About $200,000 is available to cover the foreign exchange
cost of the expatriate project advisor for a two-year period and for short-
term consultants to assist with the preparation and appraisal of specific
unusual subprojects and other special studies which become apparent later.
The advisor is required to provide experience in developing banking and so
should have at least five years appropriate experience in the field. His



- 23 -
terms of reference has been agreed with CVDB and include inter alia (i)
assisting in preparing appropriate operating policies and procedures and in
their implementation with particular emphasis on the appraisal of projects in
the various sectors financed by CVDB; (ii) assisting in setting up training
programs for different level of staff; (iii) advising on the lending and
operating programs and policies; and (iv) advising on appropriate measures to
assist potential borrowers to identify and prepare projects for CVDB financing.
CVDB has agreed to engage a qualified advisor on the terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank by July 31, 1980. A further $200,000 would be used to
finance the foreign exchange cost of training of CVDB's staff (para. 3.13).
The balance of $100,000 would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of
a study on ways and means to identify and promote productive revenue-earning
projects. (Terms of reference for the study are available in the project
file.) This study will provide CVDB with data, methods and criteria allowing
CVDB to formulate a policy to increase its involvement in the preparation,
design and implementation of feasible and profitable productive projects. A
number of small productive projects will also be prepared for financing by
CVDB. Preliminary estimates indicate that about 10 man-months of experienced
consultancy service will be required at a rate of US$8,000 per man-month
including travel and per diem. The Government is seeking financing for the
technical assistance component from multilateral sources and funds for the
consultant's study may be provided by NPC. If the Government is successful in
securing satisfactory financing, the Bank would reallocate this part of the
loan for use in subproject lending.
Benefits and Risks
5.07      The proposed project's ultimate beneficiaries are expected to be
mainly the inhabitants of the villages and municipalities of small and inter-
mediate size, which account for up to 40% of the East Bank population. Bene-
fits will also accrue to the inhabitants of the larger municipalities but the
impact on them will be less significant since these municipalities have more
alternative sources of financing. The main benefits of the proposed project
will be improved public services to meet basic needs in water, education,
health and power, and improved economic infrastructure such as market and
storage facilities, slaughterhouses and small irrigation works. These should
improve the attractiveness and productivity of life in the rural areas and
smaller towns and thereby slow the migration flows from the rural areas to
the larger cities. At the same time the project will improve interregional
income distribution by creating new income and employment opportunities in the
less developed areas of the Kingdom and integrating them into the national
development process.
5.08      The most permanent benefit of the proposed project to the country
will, however, be the gradual strengthening of institutional mechanisms for
the preparation, implementation and operation of infrastructure development
projects at the local level and for their integration into regional develop-
ment efforts. Not only will the CVDB be developed into an institution special-
izing in financial and technical assistance to the local authorities but
through the technical assistance component of the proposed project and CVDB's
own activities a number of key institutional links in the delivery of develop-
ment services will be strengthened.



- 24 -
5.09      The main risk involved in the proposed project is its inherent
complexity. CVDB's impact will depend upon its ability to coordinate the
work of a large number of Government ministries and agencies involved in the
preparation and implementations of its projects to ensure that this work is
properly undertaken. In addition, some of these institutions are presently
lacking adequate professional staff. While the proposed organization and
staffing are designed to strengthen CVDB professional competency (paras. 3.10,
3.12 and 5.06), much will depend on the ability of CVDB's General Manager and
staff to pull together all the threads that need to be combined to maximize
the development impact of CVDB's projects at the local level. Jordan, however,
has the advantage of being a relatively small country and there is no reason
to believe that the complexity will be beyond the capability of CVDB to
manage. The risk is thus well worth taking as the price for a genuine develop-
ment effort in the small towns and rural areas.
Main Features of the Proposed Loan
5.10      Loan and Subloan Terms.  It is recommended that the proposed loan
be made to the Government for onlending to CVDB in accordance with the Govern-
ment's policy for controlling the external borrowing of local agencies. This
is recommended because the benefits of a direct relationship between the Bank
and CVDB would be marginal, as unlike normal DFCs, CVDB is not authorized to
raise funds on its own. In addition, CVDB will also continue to depend
closely on Government assistance for financial and project reasons. Lending
to the Government will in no way affect the institutional objectives of the
project nor would it introduce any undue interference with CVDB's management.
Completion of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, is a
condition of loan effectiveness. The loan will be for a period of seventeen
years, including four years grace, and will be onlent to CVDB under the same
conditions. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on Bank
funds, as given the nature and lack of sophistication of CVDB's borrowers, it
would be inappropriate for them to bear such risk.
5.11      Subloans made by CVDB would carry the following annual interest
rates (including a 1% p.a. commission):
Loans for:                      Municipalities        Villages
Productive Projects                   8.0%              6.5%
Public Utility Projects               7.5%              6.0%
Social Infrastructure Projects        7.0%              5.5%
The rates provide villages with a 1.5% discount reflecting the desire of the
Government to compensate the villages for the neglect they have suffered
in the past in the allocation of credit and budgetary resources. It also
reflects MVLF's past practice of charging villages a lower rate: 4.5% versus
5.5% for municipalities, regardless of the type of project.
5.12      CVDB will charge a commitment fee of up to 0.5% on its loans.  It
in turn will pay, through the Government, the usual Bank commitment fee. The
maturities of CVDB's loans will be a function of the type of project but will
be about ten years for productive and public utility projects and 15 years for
other projects including grace periods of up to two years.



- 25 -
5.13      Review of Subproject Appraisal Reports.  It is anticipated that the
CVDB will continue, at least in the near term, to process about the same number
and types (with the exception of electricity) of subprojects as its predecessor
the MVLF, even though the CVDB will be phasing in more rigorous appraisal pro-
cedures. Over the next several years, therefore, CVDB is expected to process
about 165 subprojects annually with an average subproject of $60,000. As the
proposed Bank loan will be used to cover 50% of these subloans, each is
expected to be submitted to the Bank for authorization.
5.14      While a close review of so many small projects by the Bank is
impractical, it is desirable for the Bank to review and comment on a fairly
large sample of CVDB's appraisal reports, especially during the early stages
of loan commitment, in order to provide CVDB with the maximum amount of
technical assistance in building up its appraisal capabilities. During
negotiations agreement was reached that CVDB will initially submit to the Bank
for approval two appraisal reports in each sector.
5.15      Free Limit and Aggregate Free Limit.  After these initial two reports
have been reviewed for a sector, if appraisals are being done to acceptable
standards, the usual DFC free limit system would be instituted, though with a
separate free limit for each major sector. These free limits will be as
follows:
Sector                            Free Limit in US$000s
Water                                      50
Roads                                      50
Education                                  85
Productive Projects                        85
Others                                     85
The free limit subloans submitted to the Bank would be authorized on the basis
of a simple request supported by a completed Subproject Data System short
form. In addition, since an aggregate free limit is not proposed for this
loan, provision is made in the Loan Agreement to ensure that at least one
appraisal report in each of the major sectors is submitted to the Bank for
review every six months.
5.16      Disbursement.  In view of the large number of small subloans on
which the Bank will be called to disburse, the usual documentation supporting
disbursement requests will not be required. Instead, disbursements will be
made periodically on a reimbursement basis, covering a flat 50% of CVDB's
total disbursements for eligible projects (para. 5.04), against a certificate
of expenditure provided by CVDB. While the supporting documents will not be
submitted to the Bank, they will be retained by CVDB and be available for
inspection by the Bank. CVDB's disbursement officers are qualified and the
disbursement system is adequate. CVDB has agreed to make satisfactory arrange-
ments with its auditors for the audit of expenditures in line with Bank's
requirements. The Bank's standard disbursement procedures will be used for
the US$0.5 million Technical Assistance component.



- 26 -
CHAPTER VI: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
issues:
(a)  recruitment of key staff for CVDB (para. 3.12);
(b)  appointment and terms of reference for advisor (para. 5.06);
(c)  appointment and terms of reference for consultants
(para. 5.06); and
(d)  procedures for Bank review of CVDB's appraisal reports
(paras. 5.14 and 5.15).
6.02       Subject to enactment of the Executive Regulations clarifying the
authority of the General Manager (para. 3.04) and ratification of the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement (para. 5.10), which are conditions of effectiveness,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of $10 million to the Government of
Jordan to be onlent to CVDB on the terms outlined in paragraph 5.10.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK(
Historical and Forecast OnerationsI/
(Amounzts in JD *'rs)
H I S T 0 R'I C A L
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978
Number of Projects ADtroved
Water                           15         16        11          8         28
School Buildings                73         80        67         71         66
Electricity                     21         18        18         25         41
Roads                            8         10.        1          8         11
Productive
and Other Proiects           18        31         21         15         21
Totals                            135        155        128       127        167
Amounts AnDroved
Water                          213.2     183.5      155.8       73.0      427.8
School Buildings               534.1     478.8      642.9      711.4      834.7
Electricity                    1.95.0    251.2      213.1      256.0      624.0
Roads                           25.2      '58.0     113.5       30.5      204.0
Productive
and Other Projects         207.0      652.6      380.5      106.8      327.1
Totals                          1,174.5   1,624.1   1,505.8   1,177.7   2,417.6
FORECASTL
1979      1980         81 _    1982        1983
Number of Projects Anoroved
WTater                          29         43         42        42         40
School Buildings               56          69        64         63         62
Roads                           18         30         30        31         31
Productive
and Other Projects          21          26        28         30         31
Totals                            167        168        164       166         164
Amounts AnDroved
Water                          490.0      860.0      930.0   1,000.0    1,070.0
School Buildings               640.0      900.0     930.0   1,000.0    1,090.0
Electricity2/                  690.0            -          -                -
Roads                          200.0      390.0     440.0      490.0      540.0
ProductLive
and Other Projects  -      4S0.0      60.0      720.0      840.0      960.0
Totals                          2,500.0   2,750.0   3,020.0   3,330.0   3,660.0
1/    Covers East and West Banks
2/    Electricity projects would be phased out of CVDB financing.
Source:  VLPF and EIFMNA/IDF
EMENA/IDF
December, 1979



- 28 -
AANNEX 2
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Forecast Balance Sheets
(JD OOs)
(Audited)
1978        1979      1980         1981       1982       1983
ASSET S                                                                    -
Cash at banks                       64.7       401.3      316.3        230.4      228.4      185.8
Loan portfolio                   7,460.2    7,827.1.2/9,016.8    10,449.6   11,902.2  13,506.7
Less: Provision for
doubtful debts                -           78.3     168.5        273.0       357.0     4q5.0
Net loan portfolio              7,460.2    7,748.8   8,848.3    10,176.6   11,545.2  J13,151.7
Fixed assets (net)                    8.3         7.5       6.8          6.1        5.5        4.9
Total Assets                        7,533.2    87157.6   9,171.4    10,413.1   11,779.1  13,292.4
-LIABILITIES
Advance from Government
for school buildiags              51.6        51.6       -           -             
Advance from Trust Fund            989.7        989.7     890.7        791.7       692.7     593.7
Long-term debt:
Central Bank                     511.8    1,304.8   1,268.9          938.7      632.2   1,010.8
MinAstry of Finance               65.0                    -                 -               -
IDAll                            490.7       475.7      460.7        445.7      430.7      415.7
Kuwait Fund                       60.8              -                            -          -
US PL480                          50.0         33.4      16'7               -               -
IBRD                                -          -        172.0        981.3    1,932.0   2,329.8
.Subtotal: Long-term debt   1,178.3        1,813.9   1,918.3      2,365.7    2,994.9   3,756.3
Shareholders' equity:
Government                     5,313.6      5,302.4 3/5,752.2    -6,112.8    6,405.3   6,649.9
Municipalities and villages       -            -        400.0        800.0    1,200.0   1,600.0
Retained earnings/2               -            -        210.2        342.9      486.2      692.5
Subtotal: Equity             5.313.6      5,302.4   6,362.4      7,255.7-   8,091.5   8,942.4
Total Liabilities                  7,533.2      8,157.6   9,171.4    10,413.1   11,779.1  13,292.4
/1  Representing amounts of Credit Nos. 18-JO and 43-JO that
have been repaid by beneficiaries but ara not yet due to IDA.
/2  Added to Government's equity through 1979.
/3  Adjustment of JD 882.3 made in Loan Portfolio and Government Equity to adjust West Bank Loans.
EMENA/IDF
December 1979



- 29 -
ANREX 3
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Forecast Profit and Loss Statem.ents
(JD 000s)
(Audited)
1978    1979    1980    1981   1982    1983
l1COME
Interest on loan portfolio    360.0   395.1   451.9    537.3  656.7   791.0
Interest on bank balances/1   -97.7   119.5    74.6        71..4   68.4    66.6
Total Income                      457.7   514.6   526.5    608.7  725.1   857.6
Interest paid,/2                76.1    33.9    48.1       83.0  144.0   201.2
Administrative expenses:
Salaries and wages            30.3    36.6    82.8   136.2  154.9   176.1
Depreciation                   0.9      0.8     0.7      0.7    0.6      0.6
Other expenses                26.1    28.7    74.5    91.6   98.3   105.4
Subtotal: Admin. Experses 57.3    66.1   158.0   228.5  253.8   282.1
Provision for doubtful-,debts  -         78.3    90.2   104.5    84.0    48.0
Total Expenses                   133.4   178.3   296.3   416.0   481.8   531.3
.Zat Profits                     324.3   336.3   230.2   192.7   243.3   326.3
bXvidends                       -       -        20.0    60.0   100.0   120.0
-Retained Earnings               324.3   336.3   210.2   132.7   143.3   206.3
Net Profit as Z of                                                      r 
year-end equity                  6.1     6.0      3.5     2.6      3.0     3.7
J1 Including the "trust fund".
C2 IBPD loan at 8% p.-a.
EMENA/IDF
December 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
(JD 000s)
1979      1980       1981       1982      1983
SOURCES
Net profits                            336.3      230.2      192.7     243.3      326.3
Non-cash charges                        79.1       90.9      105.2      84.6       48.6
Loan collections                       997.7   1,179.6   1,151.8   1,558.4   1,722.5
Increase in share capital:
Direct Government contributions    200.0        200.0      200.0     200.0      200.0
Other Government contributions       334.8      249.8     160.6       92.5       44.6
Municipalities Contributions           -        400.0     400.0      400.0      400.0
Drawdown of loans:
Central Bank                         805.5      289.1       -          -        794.2
IBRD                                   -        172.0     840.6   1,088.0       645.6
Total Sources                          2,753.4   2,811.6   3,050.9   3,666.8   4,181.8
APPLICATIONS
Loan disbursements                   2,246.9   2,369.3   2,584.6   3,011.0   3,327.0
Loan repayments                        169.9      356.7      393.2     458.8      678.4
Repayment of advances                    -        150.6       99.0      99.0       99.0
Dividends                                -         20.0       60.0     100.0      120.0
Changes in cash at banks               336.6      (85.0)    (85.9)    ( 2.0)    (42.6)
Total Applications                      2,753.4   2,811.6   3,050.9   3,666.8   4,181.8
EMENA/IDF
December 1979



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Semester ending                      Semester    Cumulative
FY81:
Deceniber 31, 1980                         0.6         0.6
June 30, 1981                             1.3          1.9
FY82:
December 31, 1981                         1.6          3.5
June 30, 1982                             1.8          5.3
FY83:
December 31, 1982                         1.9          7.2
June 30, 1983                             1.0          8.2
FY84:
December 31) 1983                         1.2          9.4
June 30, 1984                             0.4          9.8
FY85:
December 31, 1984                         0.2         10.0
EMENA/IDF
December 1979



- 32 -
ANNEX 6
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Bl -  Municipal and Rural Development in Jordan, July 1979 Issues, Procedures
and Prospects (J. Dajani)
Cl -  CVDB-Organization Chart
C2 -  CVDB-Policy Statement
C3 -  Assumptions governing CVDB's Operational and Financial Projections
C4 -  CVDB:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule of the Proposed Bank Loan
C5 -  Details of Technical Assistance Proposal (including TOR for study on
productive projects and TOR for the advisor)



IBRD 14568
Th,5 -tphea tea, pree51t c              BA            r30                                                          31'                            NOVEMBER 1979
"he r.enveet"et of The radr at                   N /
7*thtn ntniht -tSidadh          /            g>
Thfetndet,Os fh-  treet m TI.
donhtdmp^y.itevmFtte                                               S     R Y  R  I A    N   ARRA I                                                       AQ
Wa^e, ttS ete as  y e                    , co\ I R A c
a t ertery smt*                                                            REPUd ,se!     L  I 
or easeprsn  o-h beat tmdee. -               I
,J (A\Soke f/ber/os ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\   TaArltaraa6
l     ToT.ber.tlm k Tb,,'/
MEDITERRANEAN
SEA
l   Tot/orgrexh  <    h v3a,f rc Dorho 5\
-32-                                                                            r2e
\.   > 1!S A U D I    A R A B IA
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ArsS\      C                        '\ aNa
\ I S  R  A  E  L                                                 I "
-'                        >J~~~~~    MAIN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
\               f t -    _r    a  Tr~~~~~~~- 
1<...                                        \NA/Jes/                        ~~~~~~AND
-30'                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSPORTATION   NETWORK
0    Mast Citie-
R E- P U   L I           ,,                                             7, /X,/"                                          M--G-g,ophM e   R.gt
/T                                                          a -  eolQ3 F  zo  t   ( >   MAIN   GEOGRAPHICds  R, G Vs IOy
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r IE i                                          Oh-INo/j ~ADt
*'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O                             rMcj  les at
O F   EGYPT P T            a        -!h.
OF
ATAfAa To4/6r   KILOMETERS 0  20 .o.-as40    60    80   10t0         --          ste1 Bast,atee
A0A9A      S  A  U  D  I       A  R  A  B  I A               MILES0        20         40        60
36






IBRD 14569
F6t^V9,e bfteppm.dBre               A NO N   r36.                                                     38                        NOVEMBER 1979
LEBANON                                                                                         .
%8 eee. pIe8,mo'm o p
swtk.mmlrwhcm it6aOefkd       I/                                  
S Y  R 1 A  N          A  R A  B
wr  w  $~~~~~~~ / ; ; s [ r~~~~~RE     U    D L I C                                                                 I R\ A   W
AI(D/TE9I?,4AIN    LaZke okber,bs                                          7
44 '.7                                                           A   N                         --
I   RI   B   I   D
-32'                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32'
\' g  K A  R A   M   M   A   N
/                 _   j/  j  --.            t    /
S A UDI  A RA BI A
Icicj: . R A   EL 
.       .'...
/~~~~~~~ K
S   \   ,;                                                   w               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J O  R D A  N
\.                      Ma' an; mo o                                /         POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION
\.     ''    c'ns/       AND
30\                       /                      M    A     A   N                            j           ADMINISTRATIVE  DIVISIONS
A R A B    \        |                                                       -- -                              SELECTED UJRBAN CENTERS6ci,cies
ARAB  \  )   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      groduole~~~~~~~~~9.wd .-,od,ng to popul.ton.)
R E P U B L I C                                                                                                   30 j    ,-8,0
180,0000
OF   EGYPT   i                                                   /
aqcbc                                /                    I                           PERSONS PER SQUARE KILOMETER:
b. 0*to<                                                                                        - 9
X r ,' j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 -199
I              t-._ 200 - 499
(GUZFX   ._     ,                                                    _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 -1000
$    4                                     KILOMETERSO   20   40   60   80   100    -   -  SUB-GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
MILES       io        4         o        --- GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
SAUD3I A                  6RAB                                                    -'-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



