OFFICIAL              LOAN NUMBER 1826 JO
DOCUMTS
Loan Agreement
(CVDB Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1826 JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           y1980, between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by The Cities and
Villages Development Bank (hereinafter called CVDB) with the
Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to CVDB the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the    Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CVDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days or (b) by
the date specified in Section 2.02 (f) of the Project Agree-
ment no applications for approval or requests for authoriza-
tion to withdraw from the Loan Account in respect of any


﻿-2-
portion of the Loan shall have been received by the Bank, or
having been so received, shall have been denied or (c) after
the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwith-
drawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to request
such approvals and authorizations or to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
(b) The words "the Project Agreement" are added after
the words " the Loan Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(c) The words "the Project Agreement" are added aftEr
the words "the Loan Agreement" in Section 10.03.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble hereto have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and CVDB, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CVDB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(c) "Sub-loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made by
CVDB to an Investment Entity for an Investment Project out of the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan relent to CVDB under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a
Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(d) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed -o be made by CVDB in an Investment Entity for an
Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to CVDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) "Investment Entity" means an entity to which CVDB
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it proposes to
make or has made an Investment.


﻿-3-
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project which is included in Part A of the Project and to be
carried out by an Investment Entity utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-loan or investment.
(g) "Jordanian Dinar" and "JD" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
(h) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(i) "CVDB Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 38 of 1979,
as amended from t1me to time.
(j) "CVDB Executive Re-- lations" means the CVDB's executive
regulations to be prepared a,- .ssued by CVD-s pursuant to Section
2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement, as amended from time to time.
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investment policy of CVDB as adopted and approved by its Board of
Directors, as amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Borrower and the Bank.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by CVDB or by any one or more
Subsidiaries of CVDB or by CVDB and one or more of its Sub-
sidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten
million dollars ($10,000,000), for use by CVDB.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, CVDB, on behalf of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, may withdraw from the
Loan Account:
(i) In respect of a Sub-loan or an Investment, the
equivalent of 50% of amounts paid (or, if the Bank


﻿shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by CVDB on
account of withdrawals made by an Investment Entity
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is
requested; and
(ii) the equivalent of amounts paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be paid) in respect of the
reasonable foreign currency cost of services
required for Part B of the Project;
provided, however, that (A) no withdrawal shall be made in respect
of a Sub-loan or Investment unless (1) the Sub-loan or Investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (2) the Sub-loan shall be
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and (B) the amount of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account for Part B of the Project shall
not exceed $500,000 equivalent (or such other amount as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree).
(b) The first two requests for withdrawal on account of
Sub-loans in respect to Investment Projects in a given sector
shall be accompanied by the appraisal reports of such Investment
Projects; thereafter, any request for withdrawal on account of a
Sub-loan in respect to an Investment Project in the same sector
shall be accompanied by the appraisal report of such Investment
Project if no appraisal report relating to such sector was submit-
ted by CVDB to the Bank during the six-month period immediately
preceding such request.
(c) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Loan Agreement
which shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $50,000
in the water and road sectors and of $85,000 in all other sec-
tors; the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to
time as may be agreed betweenx the Borrower and the Bank.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals
shall be made on account of (i) expenditures made by CVDB or an
Investment Entity, as the case may be, prior to the date of this
Agreement or (ii) expenditures made by an Investment Entity in
respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, or of an
Investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the application and information required


﻿-5-
under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or (iii) expendi-
tures made by an Investment Entity in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date on which Lhe
Bank shall have received the request and information required by
Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. CVDB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and CVDB of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
.of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and ouistanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Porrower in respect of each
Investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond ten years for commercially viable Invest-
ment Projects, and fifteen years for other Investment Projects,
from the date of approval by the Bank of such Sub-loan or Invest-
ment, or in the case of a free-limit Sub-loan, of authorization by
the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Loan;
Provision of Funds
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project for which
the Loan is made is to assist CVDB in financing such productive
facilities and resources in Jordan as will contribute to its
economic and social development and to strengthen CVDB's opera-
tional capability. The Project consists in:
(i) the financing of specific development projects
through loans to, and investments in public
entities in Jordan, in furtherance of the corporate
purposes of CVDB (Part A of the Project); and
(ii) the training of CVDB's personnel, the strengthening
of CVDB's management and the execution of a study
on the ways and means to identify productive
pro,"cts for subsequent financing by CVDB, with the
assistance   of an advisor and of consultants in
adequate numbers (Part B of the Project).
(b) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Loan to CVDB uider a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CVDB containing terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Loan, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the performance
by CVDB of any of its other obligations under the Project Agree-
ment or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or cause
to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its
part in order to enable CVDB to carry on the Project and to
perform such other obligations.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall subscribe, and pay in, an
additional porton of CVDB's authorized share capital, and cause
all concerned municipalities to take similar action, according to
a timetable and in amounts agreed upon among the Borrower, the
Bank and CVDB.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action required on
its part to ensure the availability to CVDB, under reasonable
terms, of all funds required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of CVDB under the Project Agreement;
(b) the CVDB Law or the CVDB Executive Regulations shall
have been amended so as to affect materially and adversely the
operations or financial condition of CVDB, or the Borrower shall
have taken any action which would result in a decrease of the
capital of CVDB;
(c) CVDB shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any of
the property of CVDB shall or may be distributed among its credi-
tors;
(d) without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.05 of
the Project Agreement, any part of the priripal amount of any
loan to CVDB having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable
in advance of maturity, as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CVDB or for the suspension of its operations;
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by CVDB, if such creation, acquisition


﻿-8-
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of CVDB's
business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its manage-
ment and personnel or the carrying out of the Project; and
(g) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that CVDB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and CVDB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e)
or (f) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions,
namely, that:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been entered
into by the Borrower and CVDB, respectively; and
(b) CVDB shall have issued its Executive Regulations, as
provided in Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, CVDB,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of CVDB in accord-
ance with its terms;


﻿-9-
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratifie by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and CVDB, and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of the Borrower and CVDB in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) the CVDB Executive Regulations have come into full force
and effect.
Section 5.03. The date   o   pe,    )2   s hereby specified
for the purposes of SectIon 12.04 of'the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement, the President of the National Planning Council
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Jordan
Cable address:                  Telex:
NPC                             1319 JO
Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By   S     -F   rO&? A--
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
0 ~
By   f        AU
Regional Vice President
Europe, Midle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1984                                125,000
May 15, 1985                                     255,000
November 15, 1985                                255,000
May 15, 1986                                     435,000
November 15, 1986                                435,000
May 15, 1987                                     495,000
November 15, 1987                                495,000
May 15, 1988                                     505,000
November 15, 1988                                505,000
May 15, 1989                                     505,000
Novemb'rer 15, 1989                              505,000
May 15, 1990                                     505,000
November 15, 1990                                505,000
May 15, 1991                                     505,000
November 15, 1991                                505,000
May 15, 1992                                     505,000
November 15, 1992                                505,000
May 15, 1993                                     475,000
November 15, 1993                                470,000
May 15, 1994                                     335,000
November 15, 1994                                330,000
May 15, 1995                                     175,000
November 15, 1995                                175,000
May 15, 1996                                     170,000
November 15, 1996                                165,000
May 15, 1997                                     160,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturiy                                 1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  8tL4    day of       ., 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


