CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 780 JO
Project Agreement
(Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project III)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AMMAN WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Dated May 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 780 JO
PRGJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and AMMAN
WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (hereinafter called AWSA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Hashemite Kingdom ok Jordan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that AWSA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AWSA, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to AWSA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AWSA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AWSA shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist AWSA in the preparation
of plans and specifications for, in the preparation of bidding
documents for, and in the supervision of the construction, of the
Project, AWSA shall continue to employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, AWSA undertakes to supervise, through its own
permanent staff, the carrying out of the obligations of the
contractors who are parties to the contracts listed in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) AWSA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be fina.,ed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by AWSA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AWSA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) AWSA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) AWSA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Association's representatives to visit


﻿- 3 -
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits derived
from it, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, AWSA shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by AWSA
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
(d) AWSA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of AWSA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. AWSA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, AWSA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) AWSA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) AWSA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by AWSA of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AWSA
Section 3.01. AWSA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the generality of
the provisions of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section: (i)
AWSA shall appoint by September 30, 1978, or such other date as
the Association may agree, and shall thereafter maintain a qual-
ified and experienced senior engineer whose responsibilities shall
include, inter alia, coordination of, and direct responsibility
for the carrying out of, a program for reducing unaccounted for
water consisting of (A) the enforcement of leak detection meas-
ures, (B) the calibration and testing of production meters and
(C) the supervision of meter replacement staff; and (ii) on or
before December 31, 1978, or such other date as the Association
may agree, AWSA shall undertake a review of its staffing require-
ments through 1984, prepare a report on such requirements and
discuss the recommendations included in such report with the
Association prior to implementing said recommendations, it being
understood that, until the effective implementation of said
recommendations, AWSA shall maintain the number of its staff under
1,100.
Section 3.02. AWSA shall adequately maintain the works,
installations and equipment under its jurisdiction and promptly
make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering standards and practices.
Section 3.03. AWSA shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its rights to carry on its operations, and shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, take all steps
necessary to acquire and retain such land, interest in land and
properties and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for carrying out the Project and to avoid delays in Project
implementation.
Section 3.04. AWSA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the


﻿-5-
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. AWSA shall maintain and whenever necessary
review its salary structure so as to provide salaries and career
development prospects that will enable it to attract and retain
sufficient qualified staff in line with other organizations,
authorities and corporations in Jordan.
Section 3.06. (a) AWSA shall enforce the requirements of the
Amman Public Sewerage Law No. 48 of 1977, as amended from time to
time, regarding connections. To that end, AWSA shall take all
necessary steps to ensure that all premises for which sewer
laterals are constructed under Part B (i) of the Project shall
have service connections made not later than nine months fol-
lowing completion of said sewer laterals.
(b) AWSA shall levy a sewerage surcharge on properties which
are not connected to the sewerage system within the statutory
three-month period provided under such law.
Section 3.07. By September 30, 1978, or such other date as
the Association may agree, AWSA shall establish and thereafter
AWSA shall carry out, until December 31, 1980, a meter replacement
program whereunder not less than 750 water meters per month shall
be replaced within the area wherein AWSA operates.
Section 3.08. AWSA shall carry out the staff training program
included in Part D of the Project in accordance with a timetable,
acceptable to the Association and to be submitted to the Associa-
tion by September 30, 1978, or such other date as the Association
may agree.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AWSA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. AWSA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿- 6 -
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such yen , (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of AWSA and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ASWA shall, on or before September 30, 1979, review its
rates for the supply of water and, as from January 1, 1980, AWSA:
(a) shall establish and maintain, and thereafter whenever
necessary, adjust rates for the supply of water at such levels as
shall provide revenues sufficient:
(i) to cover in each fiscal year all operating expenses
including employee compensation, administrative and
overhead costs, adequate maintenance costs, inter-
est and other charges on debt and adequate provi-
sion for taxes and other contributions provided by
law, if any, but excluding depreciation, all on
account of water supply services rendered;
(ii) to cover in each fiscal year all repayments of
principal of debt related to water supply facil-
ities;
(iii) to provide in each fiscal year for adequate
increases in working capital; and
(iv) for the fiscal years 1978 through 1981 to finance
not less than 10% of the estimated average cost
of investments in water supply and sewerage facili-
ties, including interest during construction, to be
made during such years, and for each fiscal year
thereafter to finance not less than 20% of the
estimated average cost of inve-tment in water
supply facilities, including interest during
construction, for the three-year period comprising
such fiscal year, the fiscal year immediately
preceding and the next following fiscal year;


﻿-7-
(b) shall ensure that rates for sewerage services shall be
fixed so as to yield sufficient revenue to meet operating and
maintenance costs aotributable to such services, including provi-
sion for depreciation, and debt service requirements to the extent
they exceed the provision for depreciation;
(c) shall for purposes of the foregoing and as part of such
information as may be requested under subparagraph (ii) of para-
graph (a) of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, within the
first six months of each year:
(i) prepare and furnish to the Association an updated
statement of sources and application of funds
covering (A) for purposes of paragraph (a) of
this Section in every case (I) until the year 1981,
the period 1978-1981 and (II) thereafter the
current year and the following two years and (B)
for purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section the
current year; and
(ii) prepare and furnish to the Association all other
relevant information concerning the steps taken
or planned to be taken by AWSA in order to comply
with its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, AWSA shall not incur any debt without prior approval of the
Association, unless its net. revenues for the fiscal year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for any later twelve-
month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, shall be
not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement in
any succeeding fiscal year (including the fiscal year in which
such debt is to be incurred) on all debt including the debt to be
incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of AWSA,
including debt incurred by others on behalf of AWSA but for
the service of which AWSA is responsible, maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt;


﻿- 8 -
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of AWSA's rates in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during all or a part of the fiscal year or twelve-month
period to which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision for depreciation, interest and other charges
on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Amendment to the 1973 Project Agreement
Section 5.01. The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting the provisions of Sections 3.06 and 3.09 of the 1973
Project Agreement, by substituting the provisions of Section 4.03
of this Agreement for Section 3.06 and renumbering Section 3.10
and following as required.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of AWSA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿- 9 -
(1) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 17 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
AWSA of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or
by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For AWSA:
P.O. Box 2412
Amman, Jordan
Cable address:
Amman Water and Sewerage
Authority
Amman, Jordan
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of AWSA may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of AWSA or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. AWSA shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of AWSA,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by AWSA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AMMAN WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
By Is/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, AWSA shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event normally not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for The publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity
to bid for the goods and works in question. AWSA shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A.1 above con-
tracts for civil works, materials and equipment estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 may be awarded on the basis
of local advertising only and in accordance with competitive bid-
ding procedures of the Borrower; provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of all contracts to be so awarded shall not
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 and that such competitive
bidding procedures of the Borrower are acceptable to the Associ-
at:, -n.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance


﻿- 12 -
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Jordan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Jordan if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Jordan and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Jordan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Jordan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 13 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. AWSA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by AWSA to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the AWSA decision, and AWSA shall make such additions to, dele-
tions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and purchase of
materials and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, AWSA shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, AWSA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the


﻿- 14 -
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform AWSA and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, AWSA shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform AWSA and the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Construction Contracts to be Supervised Directly by AWSA
(Section 2.02 (b))
-    Contract N2S             -  Supply and laying of
Sanitary Sewers in Smisani
and Nuzha
-    Contract N3WS            - Laying of water pipes
in jebel Hussein, in
Jebel Amman and Sport
City. Supply and laying
of sanitary sewer in the
same area.


