2.375
VOL. 2
Projedos e Estucos Armbientais
.Nlaputo, March 1999






GLOSSARY
m - Meter
kg - Kilogram
km - Kilometer
Km2 _ Square kilometer
Km3- Cubic kilometer
m3 - Cubic meter
m/s - Meters per second
ms" - Meters per second
ppm - Parts per million
Cm - Centimeters
mm3 - A thousand cubic meters
m3/s - Cubic meters per second
m3s-1 - Cubic meters per second
°C - Degree Celsius
mm - Millimeters
kgf/cm2 - Kilogram force per square centimeter
N/D- No data
g.m-2 - Grams per square meter
m2- Square meter
t-Tonnes
ft - Feet
I - Liters






LIST OF THE ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
BMS - Brigada de Melhoramento do Sul
CFM - Caminhos de Ferro de Mo,ambique
CFM - Sul - Southern Operating Region of CFM
CFM - Centro - central Operationg Region of CFM
CFM - Norte - Northern Operating Region of CFM
CNP - Censo Nacional da Popula,ao
DNE - Direc,ao Nacional de Essatistica
DWT - Dead-weight tonnes
EMODRAGA - Empresa Mo,ambicana de Dragagem
ETA - Estimated Time of Arrival
IIP - Instituto de Investiga9ao Pesqueira
INAHINA - Instituto Nacional de Higrografia e Navega,ao
INE - Instituto de Investiga,ao Agronomica
INOCQ - Instituto Nacional de Controle da Qualidade
MAE - Ministerio de Administra,ao Estatal
MICOA - Ministerio para a Coordena,ao de Accao Ambiental
NPK - Nitrate Phosphate Potassium
RGP - Recenseamento Geral da Popula,ao
SATCC - Southern African Transport and Communication Commision
SAFMAR - Servi,os de Administra,ao e Fiscaliza,ao Maritima
SGS - Private Enterprise
TFCA's - Transfrontier Conservation Areas






LIST OF FIGURES
1. Maputo Port Plan
2. The subsidiary Port of Matola
3. Monthly average temperature and rainfall recorded in Maputo in 1997
4. Mean Monthly distribution of wind direction (in percentage) over 16 years (1970-
1986).
5. Location of the Maputo Bay (top), showing the 5 metres depth contour, and
Maputo Estuary (bottom), showing hydrographic and mooring stations and the
division of the estuary in segments.
6. Estimated sediment transport for Maputo Estuary
7. Potential sites for erosion and sedimentation at Maputo Estuary
8. Distribution of surface salinity in the Maputo Estuary
9. Geological section across the Maputo and Matola Port areas
1 0. Venetation units (WAild & Barbosa, 1968) crossed by the Maputo corridor
1 1. Beira Port
12. Monthly variation of air temperature and rainfall at Beira (1 987-1996)
13. River Network in Central Mozambique
14. Coastal counter-currents in Beira
15. Vegetation units (Wild & Barbosa, 1968) crossed by the Beira Corridor
16. Conservation areas/Railway lines
17. Peninsula/bays - Nacala
18. Vegetation units (Wild & Barbosa, 1968) crossed by the Nacala Corridor
19. Location of the coral reefs in Nacala
20. Location of Zambezia Province



21. Location of Quelimane City
22. Mean annual temperature and rainfall for Quelimane City
23. Frequency distribution of wind direction
24. Land systems identified in the Quelimane port area
25. Mangrove locations in Quelimane
26. Population growth for Quelimane City
26. Port Facilities - Nacala
27. Nacala Organigram
28. Schematic Representation of Quelimane Port
29. Cargo handling at Quelimane Port for the period 1981-1995
30. Provisional Organogram for the Ministry for the Coordination of
Environmental Affairs
31. The Tchobanoglous model of the waste management process



LIST OF TABLES
1. Bird species diversity, species status, number of breeding species and bird
community size of shore birds in Matola Port (Coal Terminal)
2. Districts crossed by the Maputo Corridor and population per province
3. Number of workers employed by CFM SUL
4. Mean monthly air temperature (IC) and rainfall (mm) measured at Beira airport
during the period 1987-1996
5. Composition of the shrimp by-catch by group of species in the area south of
the Zambezi river delta, from surveys made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 (%.)
6. Population data for large mammal species, Gorongosa National Park (N/D =
no data)
7. Population Data for large Mammal Species Marromeu Complex (N/D = No
Data)
8. List of large mammal species recorded for the Gorongosa National Park
9. Endemic plant species according to family recorded for the Chimanimani
Mountains
10. The Population number of Sofala Province
11. Commercial wood species occurring along the Nacala Corridor '
12. Mammal species occuring along the Nacala Corridor
13. Distribution of the Population by neighbourhood in Nacala
14. Preliminary data obtained for the elaboration of a Master Plan of Quelimane
City
15. Key climatic features for Quelimane City
16. Frequency distribution of wind direction Aug.1977 - June 1978
17. Surface temperature and salinity recorded for Quelimane Coastal area
18. Small pelagic fish and demersal fish along the Quelimane Coast



19. Bairros and district units of Quelimane City
20. Population growth for Quelimane City (1970 to 1992)
21. Length and width of the channels at Maputo Bay
22. Harbour Capacity in metric tons/year (Maputo/Matola)
23. Average Productivity per Harbour type (Maputo/Matola) in Ton/Ship/day
(average)
24. Quay lengths and depths at Beira Port
25. Harbour Capacity in metric tons/year
26. Comparision of Ship traffic between the period 1994 to 1997
27. Productivity per type of Harbour (average number of Ton/Ship/day)
28. Equipment existing along the Beira Corridor, in 1995/96
29. Capacity of the existing facilities in the general cargo terminal
a0. Pnrt Mer.hnni-^sl enuiDment. (1974)
31. Capacity and units of the existing facilities/equipment in the container
terminal
32. Capacity of the existing facilities in the Palm oil loading terminal
33. Units and capacity of the port equipment
34. Water depth and length of the Nacala quay
35. Signaling in Nacala Port
36. Handling capacity at Nacala Port
37. Transport and traffic through Nacala Port
38. Cargo Handling productivity of main commodities at Quelimane Port
39. Cargo handling capacity at the pier at Quelimane Port
31. Ship Movements and throughput per vessel



32. Classification of Hazardous substances according to SABS code 0228
classes






LIST OF ANNEXES
I.    Mapping Units of Vegetation (VVild & Barbosa, 1968)
II.   Possible Format for a Preliminary Environmental Evaluation of Port,
Harbour and Railway Facilities for CFM and Concessionaires
Ill.   Employee Safety and Health Policy for the Ports, Harbours and Railways
of Mozambique
IV.   Operational Emergency Organization (OEM). Protocols for CFM (Ports,
Harbours and Railways) Sites.
V.   Legal Documents
VI.  Summary of the Main Environmental Features






LIST OF PHOTOGRAPHS - NACALA PORT
Photo 1. Solid residues from the general workshop
Photo 2. Oil spillage at the general workshop
Photo 3. Residual waters and oil accumulation at the general worskshop
Photo 4. General workshop - underground diesel for deposit (fuel for port equipment)
Photo 5. Pipeline terminal - accessories used for residue discharge
Photo 6. General view of pipeline system
Photo 7. General view of the tanks at Nacala Port
Photo 8. Lever brothers Tanks used for vegetable oil storage
Photo 9. Packing and handling of fetilizers (ammonium sulphate) by workers at Nacala
Port
Photo 10. Open air storage of fertilizers in front of warehouse 2
Photo 11. Warehouse 1 used for the storage of fertilizers
Photo 12. Warehouse 1 used for the storage of fertilizers
Photo 'I . Piles of scrap for exportation stored in non paved areas
Photo 14. Piles of scrap for exportation stored in non paved areas
Photo 15. a and b. Open air storage of scrap and other solid residues, in non paved
areas
Photo 16. a and b. container terminal workshop - collection of oil and other liquid
residues in conduits
Photo 17. Container terminal workshop - storage of solid residues
Photo 18. Container terminal workshop - oil accumulation
Photo 19. Overview of the container terminal workshop
Photo 20. Container storage at the terminal
Photo 21. Salt Ponds at the vicinity of Nacala Port
Photo 22. General overview of the container terminal at Nacala Port



I



LIST OF PHOTOGRAPHS - QUELIMANE PORT
Photo 1. Main entrance to the Port
Photo 2. Internal entrance to the Port - timber residues
Photo 3. Exit gate of the Port
Photo 4. Frontal view of the Administration Office
Photo 5. Car washing facilities - ditch for oil drainage
Photo 6. a and b. Car washing facilities
Photo 7. a and b. Frontal view of the workshops. Non paved ground with oil spot
Photo 8. a and b. Backyard of warehouse A and frontal view of Crustamoz
(private compaby) with port waste accumulated on the ground
Photo 9. Lateral view of the warehouse tented to MADAL company and exit rail
line
Photo 10. Lateral view for MADAL warehouse
Photo 11. Entrance for MADAL warehouse
Photo 12. a and b. Coal for export stored in Madal warehouse
Photo 13. Warehouse B for storage of general cargo (different types of cargo)
Photo 14. Connection between the port rail line and CFM station
Photo 15. a and b. General view of mineral coal storage at open air
Photo 16. a and b. open air timber in front of warehouse A (out of use)
Photo 17. a and b. Remaining timber storage
Photo 18. a and b. Mooring quay
Photo 19. Container storage
Photo 20. Fuel tanks



I



Environmental Audit andManagement Planfor the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
ADDENDUM
PREAMBLE
The following discussion concerning capacity building within CFM was originally
presented in the report entitled, Environmental Assessment of the Proposed
rehabilitation Project for the Ports of Macuse, Pebane, Angoche and Mocimboa da
Praia. CFM and Gapromar staff requested that this discussion should be presented in
the report entitled Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port
Restructuring Project. The following discussion should therefore be read in conjunction
with section 6.5 of chapter 6 of this report.
CAPACITY BUILDING AND MONITORING: TRAINING AND COSTS
Both MICOA and the Environmental Unit at CFM are lacking in trained personnel
capable of quantifying and monitoring environmental impacts at the ports and harbours
of Mozambique. The following recommendations are made with respect to achieving the
necessary competence within these two organisations for this vital activity.
1. CFM ENVIRONMENTAL UNIT
1.1. Training
1. Two Environmental Unit staff to attend a one-year course towards a Diploma in
Environmental Impact Assessment.
COST: US$40000 per person (course fees, travel and subsistence)
2. CFM engineer to attend a three month course on Environmental
Management.
COST: US$25000 (course fees, travel and subsistence)
3. Training Workshops (one week, two times a year) and seminars (two days, two times
a year) based on needs assessment of CFM staff.
ONE-WEEK WORKSHOP: US$50000
TWO-DAY SEMINAR: US$20000
Impacto, Projeclos e Estudios Ambientais - 1999-04-22



Environmental Audit and Management Planfor the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
1.2. Monitoring
1. Two desktop and two laptop computers: US$20000
2. Field equipment etc.: US$5000
3. One four-wheel drive vehicle for visiting the ports: US$50000
4. Airflights to inaccessible ports (four times per year): US$10000 p.a.
1.3. Fire Contingency Plan
A contingency plan must be implemented at all ports for rapid response emergency
organisation to deal with the fire and ensure worker safety. To implement the plan
requires the training of responsible personnel on how to respond to a range of fire
situations and what equipment to use (e.g. fire in buildings and fire caused by fuel spills
into the sea). Fire extinguishers must be available in all buildings and facilities at the
ports. Different types of fire extinguishers are required depending on the source of risk.
The following recommendations are made with respect to the contingency costs of staff
training and the purchase of fire extinguishers. The costing for the plans are given in The
summary tables of each report.
Staff Training: US$50000 (all ports)
Fire Extinguishers & Chemical Separators: US$10000 per port
11.1. Training Recommendations
1. Two members of the technical staff should attend a one-year course towards a
Diploma in Environmental Impact Assessment.
2. Staff should also attend Training Workshops (one week, two times a year) and
seminars (two days, two times a year) based on needs assessment.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudios Ambientais - 1999-04-22



INDEX
1. Project Description                                     1
2. Environmental and Socio-economic Baseline Conditions    5
2.1.  Maputo Port and Corridor                           5
2.1.1.Climate                                         6
2.1.2. Coastal Process and Dynamics                   7
2.1.3. Geology and Geomorphology                      14
2.1.4. Soils                                          15
2.1.5. Hydrology                                      16
2.1.6. Fauna/Flora                                    16
2.1.7. Socio-economic Status                          23
2.2.  Beira Port and Corridor                           24
2.2.1.Climate                                        25
2.2.2. Coastal Process and Dynamics                  27
2.2.3. Geology and Geomorphology                     28
2.2.4. Soils                                         29
2.2.5. Hydrology                                     29
2.2.6. Fauna/Flora                                   31
2.2.7. Socio-economic Status                         40
2.3.  Nacala Port and Corridor                          42
2.3.1.Climate                                        42
2.3.2. Coastal Process and Dynamics                  43
2.3.3. Geology and Geomorphology                     44
2.3.4. Soils                                         45
2.3.5. Hydrology                                     46
?.3 6. Fqtins/FInrq                                  47
2.3.7. Socio-economic Status                         51
2.4.  Quelimane Port                                    54
2.4.1.Climate                                        54
.2.4.2. Coastal Process and Dynamics                  56
2.4.3. Geology and Geomorphology                      57
2.4.4. Soils                                       - 57
2.4.5. Hydrology                                      58
2.4.6. Fauna/Flora                                    59
2.4.7. Socio-economic Status                          61
3. Infrastructures and Services                            63
3.1.  Maputo Port and Corridor                          63
3.2.  Beira Port and Corridor                           69
3.3.  Nacala Port and Corridor                          72
3.4.  Quelimane Port                                    73
4. Legal and Institutional Framework for Environmental
Management                                              77
4.1.  National Policy                                   77
4.2.  Legal Framework for environmental Management       78
4.2.1. Introduction                                     78
4.2.2. Relevant Legislation and Regulation              79
4.2.3. Atmospheric Pollution                            85



4.2.4. Construction and operation of new facilities     85
4.2.5. Licensing of Projects and Building               87
4.2.6. Land use tenure                                  89
4.2.7. Regulation for harbour operations                94
4.3.  International conventions/Treaties                95
4.3.1. Basel convention on the control of transboundary movements 95
4.3.2. The Bamako convention                            96
4.3.3. Convention on the Law of the Sea                 97
4.3.4. Convention for the Protection                    99
4.3.5. Convention on Biological Diversity               100
4.3.6. Convention Concerning the protection of the World Culture   101
4.3.7. International Maritime Organization              102
4.3.8. Organization on the Indian Ocean Marine          102
4.3.9. Protocol on Shared Watercourse Systems in the SADCC  103
4.3.10. The Zambezi River                               104
4.3.11. Ramsar Convention                               104
4.4.  Institutional Framework                           105
5. An Audit of Environmental and Worker Health             117
5.1. Dredging                                           118
5.2. The transport, handling and storage of general cargo  127
5.3. General waste management practices                 147
5.3.1. Waste management, storage and disposal           148
5.3.2. Workshop and repair facilities                   153
5.4. Rail corridor                                      166
5 5 Continaenrv nlans                                   177
5.6. Total costs                                        177
6. Environmental management plan                           183
6.1. Introduction                                       183
6.2. Strategic objectives of the EMP                    184
6.3. CFM's Policy -An outline                           189
6.4. Contractual obligations of concessionaires      i  190
6.5. Institutional roles in coordinating                192
6.6. Detailed environmental assessment and monitoring   199
6.7. Environmental impact assessment procedures requirements    199
6.8. Waste management plan                              202
6.9. Employe safety and health policy for the ports     211
6.10. Operational emergency organization                211
6.11. Establishment of norms                            211
6.12. Oil spill management                              217
6.13. Training                                          221
6.14. Conformance with ISO                              222



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Poat Restnictuning Project
BACKGROUND
In 1989, the Mozambique Rail and Port Company CFM was detached from DNPCF, a
Directorate of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and became a para-statal
company with increased autonomy. As of 1st January 1995, CFM was further transformed
into a public company. Among other things, the law enacting this change envisages
involvement of the private sector in management and operation of its activities and
establishment of a contract between CFM and the Government of Mozambique (GOM)
covering financial and performance targets.
Mozambique's geographical setting makes it an ideal transit route for the international
trade of the neighbouring landlocked countries of Zimbabwe, Swaziland and Malawi, and
the North Eastern Transvaal Region of the Republic of South Africa (RSA). The rail
distances to Mozambique Ports are considerably shorter than distances to altemative
ports, consequently, transport costs will be lower. In the past, the transport sector
accounted for over 10 percent of the national social product. The deficit in the trade
account was matched by a surplus in the service account, with the transport sector
contributing about 80 to 90 percent of this surplus. At the peak of its operating
performance in 1973, it carried 18 million tons of transit traffic and eamed foreign
exchange amounting to l !S$11  ( million.
Mozambique has three important transport corridors each consisting of integrated railways
and port facilities and serving primarily regional transit traffic. The corridors are distinct
geographical segments that have no physical links between them within Mozambique. The
corridors are managed and operated by regional CFMs. ,
The Maputo corridor system, operated by CFM-Sul, comprises the main port of Maputo,
the subsidiary port of Matola and three rail connections with the port. Maputo Port
presently handles over 3.2 million tons per year with a theoretical design capacity of 14
millions tons.
The three rail connections include the Ressano Garcia Line, 88 kilometers, linking Maputo
with RSA, the Goba Line, 68 kilometers, connecting Maputo Port with Swaziland, and the
Limpopo Line, 534 kilometers, linking Maputo with Zimbabwe. The rail network presently
handles about 2.7 million tons of freight traffic per year. The Maputo Corridor commands a
hinterland with the greatest traffic potential. It is the only port in Southern Africa that can
handle significant incremental traffic without major capital expansion.
The Beira Corridor system, operated by CFM-Centro, comprises the Port of Beira and two
rail connections with the Port. Beira Port presently handles 4.6 million tons per year. The
two rail connections are the Machipanda Line, 317 kilometers, linking Beira with
Zimbabwe; and the Sena Line, 331 kilometers, linking Beira with Malawi. The Sena Line
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        1



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the. Rail and Port Restructuring Project
has been non-operational since 1984. The Machipanda Line presently handles over 1.2
millions tons per year with a theoretical annual capacity of 2 million tons.
The Nacala Corridor system, operated by CFM-Norte, comprises the Port of Nacala and
the rail link, 615 kilometers long, to Malawi. The Nacala Port presently handles about
420,000 tons per year, and the rail line carries 240,000 tons per year.
Besides these three ports and corridors the present study will also include the port of
Quelimane.
Proposed Rail-Port Restructuring project (RPRP)
With a view to realising the full potential of the Maputo, Beira and Nacala rail-port
systems, the GOM has embarked on a privatisation process of these systems and is
initiating the restructuring of CFM. The target dates for completion of the privatisation
process are December 1998 for the Maputo rail-port system and December 1999 for the
Nacala and Beira rail-port systems. In order to support the privatization and restructuring
process, the GOM is preparing a comprehensive Rail-Port Restructuring Project (RPRP)
for which it intends to request assistance from the international Development Association
(IDA).
The three main objectives of the RPRP would be:
1. To enable the three rail-port systems to realise their full potential, thus contributing to
increased foreign exchange earnings for Mozambique, and reducing transport costs of
imports /exports for neighbouring countries;
2. To enable the three rail-port systems to operate in a cost effective manner, generating
surpluses which constitute an acceptable return on capital employed and thereby
contribute to reducing GOM's budgetary deficit; and
3. To create an efficient legal and regulatory framework which would encpurage genuine
inter-modal and inter-route competition.
RPRP would have two main components:
a. Restructuring Component
The restructuring component would mainly focus on the following:
CFM Headquarters restructuring. Organisational restructuring of CFM headquarters with a
view to eliminating CFM's administrative and technical functions subsequent to the
concessioning of the three rail-port systems, leaving CFM to undertake the functions of a
holding company;
Staff rationalisation. Rationalisation, retrenchment/retirement of surplus staff and providing
assistance in redeployment of surplus staff;
Assets Rationalisation. Rationalisation of CFM's asset base, identification of surplus
assets and their disposal;
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           2



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Legal framework. Developing a legal framework which would enable CFM to operate as a
holding company and administrator of its share in various concessions;
Regulatory framework. Setting up a simple and cost-effective regulatory framework to
provide economic, safety and environment-related regulation; and
Performance agreement with GOM. Refining the performance agreement to clearly define
their respective authority and responsibility after restructuring of CFM and concessioning
of the three rail-port systems.
b. Privatisation Component
The privatisation component would mainly focus on the following:
Concessioning of the Nacala port-railway system;
Concessioning of the Beira port-railway system;
Operating of concessions for the Maputo port-railway system;
Facilitating private sector participation in the management of CFM properties, facilities and
activities not included in the main port railway concessions; and
Monitoring of the performance of the concessionaires with a view to providing adequate
and timely intervention, if required.
The privatisation component will also include financing for the rehabilitation and upgrading
of infrastructure for the three port-rail system to ensure that GOM meets contractual
obligations vis-a-vis the concessionaires (for example, bringing the depth of the channels
for the port of Maputo and Beira to a minimum agreed level).
Objectives of the Study
The Terms of Reference (TOR) cover the Environment Audit and the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) of the proposed Rail and Port Restructuring Project (RPRP).
The main objective of this study is:
1. To determine the environmental baseline conditions at, and in the vicinity, of the ports
of Maputo, Beira, Nacala and Quelimane and rail operational sites;
2. To evaluate the current institutional and legal framework and propose new regulations
whenever considered necessary;
3. To formulate an Environmental Audit Management Plan.
The Environment Audit and Environmental Management Plan will include specific
orientation for the future Environmental Impact Assessments that will take place whenever
necessary in compliance with Mozambican legislation and regulations.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          3



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
These Environmental Assessments will cover the direct and indirect impacts from the
proposed activities to bring the ports and rail lines to acceptable standards for private
concessionaires to take over the operation. In particular this will include the investments
foreseen in the dredging of Maputo and Beira and the rehabilitation of the railroads.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                        4



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2.1. MAPUTO PORT AND CORRIDOR
INTRODUCTION
The Maputo corridor system, operated by CFM-Sul (one of the three regional port and rail
operators of the state enterprise CFM) comprises the main Port of Maputo (see figure 1),
the subsidiary Port of Matola (see figure 2) and three rail connections with the port. The
three rail connections are the Ressano Garcia Line (88 km) linking Maputo with Republic
of South Africa, the Goba Line (68 km), connecting Maputo Port with Swaziland and the
Limpopo Line (534 km), linking Maputo Port with Zimbabwe. Maputo Port is situated in
Maputo City, Capital of Maputo Province (250 58' 05" S, 320 34' 02" E).
The destruction and disruption caused by 15 years of civil war and the decline in the
Mozambican economy and export earnings, impacted on the traffic along the Maputo
Corridor. Maputo lost much of its traffic, in particular to the competing ports of Durban and
Richards Bay in Natal. In addition, a large part of the rail infrastructure and rolling stock
has been damaged by sabotage and guerrilla action.
The civil war and the lack of rigorous environmental, health and safety policies has, as a
consequence, resulted in a poor level of environmental protection and management.
Occupational health and safety are at the present of low priority in CFM - Sul operations.
2.1.1. Climate
The climate of the region varies from tropical to sub-tropical, changing from humid to sub-
arid in an east-west direction.
Average annual temperature ranges from 21 to 23.8°C. the hottest months are
January/February while July is the coldest month.
Like temperature, rainfall tends to decrease considerably from East to West, but then rises
again in the Lebombo Mountains area as well as at Chokwe and Chicualacuala villages.
The annual rainfall varies from 399 to 1100 mm.
In Maputo City, average rainfall is 770 mm per year. 70% of the rains fall between
November and March with less than 2% in July and August. Relative humidity ranges from
70% to 85%.
Figure 3 below presents monthly average temperature and rainfall data recorded in
Maputo in 1997.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          5



LUeld YWOd olndew 1 ejn6!|
10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fu S 00
0Ca       I    v      
Z. 'X '     :       Ii    /_
41\ X - :: -.'-
to                        p~~~~~~~~~~~q
IC       O.L~~~~~~~~~
/ N~~~~



IN                                                                --
Kilornetres     2                                /             C) Soccer u
/1K~                          2
7.       t T
niry ~       ~MpuoEsur
/; ~ 2.Z          I The subsidiaryPortofMaarminal
/\Matola A             ;,.!-.
/s   Y   i  \    o    t       C~~~~~~~'erment"
\      ^,\ {       ~~~Factory
t t  w           >  /  \~~6                                       Maputo Estuary
F ^ujre 2. The subsidiary Port of Matola



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Poft Restructuring Project
30                                 300
25                                 25
2020
I 015..50
0
10-iF
TmTprature
g   < m  <   z < z D    Xnpra
; = ~LL  E <    E  <   en o za
Figure 3. Monthly average temperature and rainfall recorded in Maputo, in 1997
Average wind speed in Maputo is low (2.5 m/s). Lowest wind speeds occur from March to
June. 85% of the strongest wind in each month comes from the southern quadrant. Wind
velocities tend to be low but with considerable variation from year to year. Figure 4, shows
+k^ rn n+hl# d+r;bution of the wind directions in the  ,spirito   ntnt epetu.  ..           -.
Wind direction
N     NE   E  SE   S  SW    W    NW
Jan
Feb                               2
Mar                       /
Apr                 2
May         1
Jun              20     10
Jul                            10      10
Aug                30
Sep
Oct0
Nov                  4
Dec                             Q
Figure 4. Mean Monthly distribution of wind direction (in percentage) over 16 years (from
1970 to 1990).
"ince 1950 only two cyclones of significance came ashore near Maputo (Claude in 1966
and Demoina in 1984). Rainfall associated with the cyclones may reach 800 mm in 24
hours and with winds well in excess of 30 m/s.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                               6



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Poa Restructuring Project
2.1.2 Coastal Processes and Dynamics
The Maputo Bay is a large, calm Bay, under estuarine influence. Estimates indicate that
the Bay has an area that ranges from 960km2 to 1 280km2.
Figure 5 shows the Maputo Bay, showing the 5 meter depth contour, and Maputo Estuary
(bottom), showing hydrographic and mooring stations and the division of the estuary in
segments.
30                   40'                 50'                33' 00'
AX    \>15^\i'g--,'l m  i_   
*02~~~~~
CJ1*XEFU4A  *Cd            ;     2 00
W~~~S  -*e2 ~~~~~~~C2                MœS3Ajf
* Hydmographic Station    \   6f5|    P S 
,  .  \X., t jUSI.                    *   .,
30'                 40'                 So'                33 00'
CIFEL
A. :.          /                0C
MAIN&  Harb   '                          M3Au 
" 2000m                   /      C5
,>9 i1-} \ T          A \ Fydxp StSation 
A.T504'.                                       say 
Figure 5. Location Map: Maputo Bay (top), showing the 5 metres depth contour, and
Maputo Estuary (bottom), showing hydrographic and mooring stations and the
division of the estuary in segments.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                           7



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Por Restrvcturing Project
The Bay is very shallow, the southern portion being less than 5 m deep, with numerous
subtidal shoals. The northern part of the Bay tends to be deeper ranging from 5 m to 10 m
for most of its area (381 km2 ). However, only 171 km2 are deeper than 10 m. There are a
few channels over 15 m deep, generally oriented North-South.
The shores of the Bay constitute part of an arcuate beach, swamp and barrier stretch of
coast. The bottom is generally sandy but muddy in the mouths of the rivers and there is
muddy sand in some areas.
The water in the southwestern section of the Bay displays relatively high turbidity for much
of the year, while clarity in the North and East is markedly greater.
Movements of water in the bay are influenced by several rivers and determine the
condition of marine and estuarine ecological systems. The five main rivers that drain in the
Maputo Bay are the Maputo, Tembe, Umbeluzi, Matola, Incomati. The flow of these rivers
results in significant discharges during the rainy season. During the dry season, the Bay is
subjected to the ebb and flow of the tides. The total volume of water entering the Bay
from all these sources averages about 6 km3 (6 x 10 m3) per year (predominantly during
summer, which is the rainy season in southern Mozambique).
Tides in the Bay are semi-diurnal, with a maximum spring tide range of 3,9 m. Current
patterns in the Bay are not well known, although it is apparent that they are slow and that
the major movement of water is clockwise. The overall clockwise movement of sediment is
evident from patterns of sand distribution around the groins on the shore in the North of
Maputo, sand being accumulated to the South of the groin and eroded from the other side.
T.d-! ^:rnts move much more water than does wave action that is slight, except during
the occasional violent storm.
The currents in the Espirito Santo Estuary are unidirectional and alternating, being tidal in
origin. Matola Harbour is located in the site that is less vulnerable to erosion and more
stable in comparison to the Ponta Vermelha margin, at the northern extrerne of the
entrance of the Maputo Estuary.
It is likely that, in common with most coastal sedimentary areas, the sediments are highly
mobile and it is necessary to understand the local coastal processes in order to plan an
economic and ecologically sensitive dredging program.
Figure 6 shows the estimated sediment transport for Maputo Estuary and Figure 7 the
potential sites for erosion and sedimentation at Maputo Estuary.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         8



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pott Restructuring PrDject
Matola                                                            Mpt
Harbour                                   L]   ~~~~~~~~~~Harbour
2. Maputo Estuary: Estimate of sediment transport ,_
(bed load) in gm rri1 jI                                                         ........
Figure 6. Estimated sediment transport (bed load).
Motob _
Harbour                                       *      IMaputo
,   , 1 ,           111            X        t                |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Verrnelha
_     ll         3 M~~~aputo Estuary. potential sie n         s Ctembe 
of erosion and sedimentation 
rlT4-                     gI]~~~~~1   Erosional site
3    1                   | | ~~~~~~~~Depelosiinl sIte 
Figure 7. Potential sites for erosion and sedimentation
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March  1999                                                                                   9



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnrctuning Project
Salinity in Espirito Santo Estuary varies from 10 PPM, during the rainy season to 34 PPM,
during the dry season (Figure 8). There is a considerable longitudinal gradient of salinity
throughout the year, particularly near the Umbeluzi mouth and during the rainy season.
The water column is almost homogenous in both salinity and temperature though weak
vertical stratification may develop due to river discharge during the rainy season.
Matola
*/ / /-              Maputo Estuary
'7 ,g|           Surface Salinity. 9J03171
t\i   \2000 m
.-       -3
28     t2
Maol    JX.                                                       1
bl    j  \\     ~~~Surface Salin@y. 291'06f7i            31\
\     2~~8        2000 m\ 
Figure 8. Surface salinity patterns in the Maputo Estuary.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                        10



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
The waters of the Espirito Santo estuary are heavily polluted from a number of sources.
Intensive agriculture is practised upstream in the Incomati, Umbeluzi and Maputo river
valleys, resulting in pollution from agricultural chemicals.
A hundred and twenty-six factories are operational in the Maputo area, giving rise to
discharges of a wide variety of substances, including caustic soda, detergents, amides,
dyes and various acids. A tannery also discharges into the Matola River, without prior
treatment.
Three large factories, a paper mill, a brewery and a tyre factory, discharge waste into the
Infulene stream. Mozambique's only oil refinery is situated in Maputo Bay and discharges
into it. There is also considerable sewage pollution in the Bay, less than 50% of Maputo's
sewage receives treatment prior to discharge and contamination of filter-feeding shellfish
with faecal E. coli is widespread throughout the Bay.
Oil spills from tankers have added lo this pollution and there are numerous less intense
inputs of pollution from small factories, loading terminals and harbours. The full impact of
this pollution is felt in the Espirito Santo estuary.
2.1.3 Geology and Geomorphology
Maputo and Matola Ports
This -area. developed through intermixing nf riuor ;nd marine materials deposited by 0iom
moving water in the recent past. The slopes inland of the floodplain comprise deeply
weathered tropical lateritic soils of the Da Machava formation, varying in thickness
between a few to 20 meters (see figure 9). The Ponta Vermelha formation underlies the
Da Machava formation and comprises red sandstone with limestone, marl and calcareous
sandstones (see figure 9).                                       ,
In geomorphological terms the area is considered to be a plain coast, with altitudes up to
60 metres. From the Maputo Bay, westwards, the altitude starts from 0 meters (m.a.s.l.) in
the tidal plain and rises smoothly until the coastal dunes and recent alluvials, with altitudes
up to 10 meters.
Maputo Corridor
Most of the area traversed by the Maputo Corridor comprises extensive plains, flatland
areas and depressions most of which lie below 100 m. There is little relief other than the
Lebombos range. The geological formations comprise coastal dunes, rhyolites dunes,
undifferentiated gres and basalts.
The upper Limpopo River (where the Limpopo-line to Zimbabwe passes) is situated in
Tertiary sedimentary rocks of undifferentiated composition. The lower half of the river runs
through an area of Quarternary sand and claystones (Chokwe area) and calcareous lake
sediments of various geneses closer to the coast. There is no potential for mineral
exploration along the Elefantes and Lower Limpopo Rivers.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          11



ELEVATIO
30
20
10
15
35-
;IQ     &      N D:85  EC  T I O  N                                          'B    -     B                             HORIZONTAI SCALF raI Nro,r
.2I                                                                              DE SANTIAGO FORMA71ON
/X %#   ALtLUVIAL  :POSiT                            lscalcareousoneanne limslone.               °       °     200   300    1
DE CONGLUTE FORMATION
Sands siIt5 with minoE clLys
making up sand dures                                _WATE6 TA8tF
DA MACI tAVA FORMATION
Avtenateng coastal snd stones                        tI -       POSSIBLE FAULT
clays and calcareous sandstones
and etmestlne layers near base                        f- e      RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS
PONTA VERMELHA FORMATION
Red sandstones with imestones.
marsh and calcareous sandsIores                                 LIT -LOGICAL BOUNDARIES
Figure 9. Geological section across the Maputo and Matola Port areas



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
The bedrock close to the borders with South Africa and Zimbabwe is composed of rhyolite
and ignimbrite of Jurassic age, with a Cretaceous sedimentary complex of shales,
conglomerate and limestone and Quaternary sand and claystones.
2.1.4. Soils
Maputo and Matola Ports
The area comprises white sands of the derived deposits of tidal movements and clays of
alluvial origin. At depths of 20 meters or more it is possible to find sandstone with fossils
and dark clays of Tertiary origin.
A typical soil profile from this area has a surface horizon of approximately 10-15 meters of
interbedded yellow-brown fine calca, medium to coarse-grained sand, with varying clay
content and grey-brown fine grained sandy clay. Below this is a semi-consolidated, fine to
medium grained sand and fine gravely, conglomeratic calca, highly weathered, sandstone.
Soils in Matola Port have low permeability and high capacity to assimilate pollutants due
to their high clay and silt content.
Maputo Coridor
Sandy dune soils (arenosoils) with a low organic matter content occur along the coast.
The large expanse of undulating sandy plains West of the dunes comprises a variety of
infertile sandy-soils of recent origin (hap!ic, ferralitic ard a!bic arenosoils). Heavy textured
soils occur as alluvial soils (eutric fluvisoils, Fe) on the flood plains of the Maputo and Futi
Rivers. Peat soils dominate the Futi drainage line.
The expansive swamps into which the Futi River drains comprise saline marine and
estuarine sediments (salic fluvisols). Smaller areas of 'mananga' soils (ferralitic arenosols)
occur to the West of the Maputo River and the southern margins of the FutiRiver.
The most degraded and eroded areas occur on tree-less plains with soils that are
transformed into wide drainage lines during the rains.
Well-drained, deep soils in places such as valley slopes are highly susceptible to erosion.
The Maputo corridor crosses four physiographic units:
- Grandes Libombos region
- Inter-Libombos region
- Pequenos Libombos region
- Dunes and sandy plateaux region
In the rough hilly region of the Libombos and Pequenos Libombos mountains the soil is
poor due to its limited depth, and highly susceptible to erosion. At the foot of these
mountains and on the plains and relatively flatter areas, red clay soils typical of the Inter-
Libombos region predominate. The Goba and Ressano Garcia lines traverse these areas
to Swaziland and South Africa.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           12



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Po/t Restructunng Project
The soils in the Chokwe area, where the Limpopo line passes, have developed into fine
textured marine and saline lake sediments with high concentrations of sodium,
magnesium, and sulphate. Four types of soils develop in this area:
1. Soils developed in sand (20-50 cm) over marine clay form slightly undulating and
relatively higher land. The sand has very low fertility and the clay is moderately to
highly saline.
2. Soils developed in marine clay on flat terrain with have low permeability.
3. Soils developed in deep sediments with medium texture are well drained, of moderate
to poor fertility with no salinity problems.
4. Soils developed in recent sediments along the river (fluvisols).
2.1.5 Hydrology (Ground and Surface Water)
Maputo and Matola Ports
There are five rivers draining into the Espirito Santo estuary: the Maputo, Tembe,
Umbeluzi Matola and Incomati. The rainy season is from December to April then mostly
dry for the rest of the year. The most important river is the Umbeluzi contributing on
average (over 25 years) about 0.7 Km3 per year. The average runoffs during the rainy and
dry seasons are about 635 and 2.5m3 s-1, respectively. The contribution of the Matola,
Tembe and Infulene rivers together do not exceed 5Mm per year.
At Matola Port, three key features determine surface water drainage:
- Salt works (eastern portion)
- Wetlands (western portion)
- Course of the Infulene river
Generally the natural drainage of surface water is poor because the land slopes gradually
to the estuary. The salt evaporation ponds further reduce drainage to the estuary.
The groundwater at Matola Port probably flows in a direction that reflects the land surface
and the surface drainage of the area. Two potential ground-water aquifers have been
identified: a shallow unconfined aquifer and a deeper semi-confined aquifer. Depth to
ground water ranges from 15 meters below surface to 1-2 meters close to the wetlands.
Maputo Corridor
The Maputo Corridor crosses several rivers, streams, artificial lakes, drainage lines,
lowlands and depressions. The Corridor lies in the Hydrographic Basins of the Umbeluzi,
Matola, Futi, Maputo, Incomati, Incoluane and Limpopo Rivers.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          13



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring PrDject
2.1.6 Fauna/Flora
Maputo Port
The bay of Maputo and its associated estuaries, channels and wetlands constitute a
series of species-rich, highly sensitive and biologically interlinked ecosystems, which are
of great local and national importance, both biologically and economically.
The Maputo Bay is an extremely productive area, the main sources of primary production
being the rich phytoplankton of the bay, the extensive shallow-water seagrass
communities and the mangrove communities.
Apart from its economic importance, Maputo Bay has a number of important marine
ecosystems and rare or endangered species of marine animals, all of which are sensitive
and at risk from oil pollution.
Mangroves
Mangrove ecosystems are highly important for a number of reasons. For example, they
provide habitat for the young stages of many valuable species of commercial fish and
shellfish. They function as a biological filter for the river catchment areas reducing the rate
of sediments entering the bay and providing stability and physical protection for
sedimentary shorelines. 51 % of the coastline of Maputo Bay is mangrove.
The mangrove communities in the project area are dominated by Avicenia marina with
most of the trees not exceeding 2,5 m in height. The eastern bank of the Estuary has few
Rizophora mucronata. The density seems to be influenced by human pressure. The very
few species of mangroves inhabiting the Eastem Shore is a consequence of human
activities such as: removal for fuel and for the construction of salines (small ponds for salt
production), (pers. Obs.).
Coral reefs
Coral reefs are complex, productive and sensitive ecosystems that can be easily damaged
by pollution and increased levels of sedimentation.
Three coral reefs occur on the eastern side of Maputo Bay and Inhaca island: Barreira
Vermelha, Ponta Torres and lIha dos Portugueses. Despite their relatively small size, they
harbour by far the greatest diversity of fishes in the Bay, this being a feature of coral reefs,
worldwide. At least 25 families of fishes are resident on the reefs and dependent on the
coral both for food and shelter. The total number of species is in excess of one hundred.
Dugongs (Dugong dugon)
The most noteworthy marine mammal frequenting Maputo Bay is the threatened and
protected dugong, Dugong dugon. It feeds on the sea grasses that cover the sandy
shoals, particularly in the eastem half of the Bay. These endangered marine mammals
have been in decline and there are now thought to be only 7 animals left in the Bay.
Impacto, Ptojectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         14



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
The number has declined due to entanglement with fishing nets and the fact that their
flesh is considered a delicacy.
They must rank as the most threatened species of any group of animals in the area and
their protection is a top priority.
They do not apparently, enter the Espirito Santo estuary. Their number seems to be below
Minimum Viable Protection (MVP) levels, which indicates that protection is somewhat
futile.
Turtles
Endangered turtle species nest on the sandy beaches on the seaward side of Inhaca
Island and Xefina Island. These are mainly loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) with some
leatherbacks (Dermochelys coricea). There is no record of turtle nests in the project area.
Seagrass beds
Seagrass beds occur in various parts of the Bay, particularly shoreward of Inhaca Island.
The seagrass formations in the Bay support many animal species, including fish, birds,
amphibians, reptiles and mammals that are endemic, rare or close to extinction e.g. the
dugong.
Ten species of marine, flowering sea grasses have been recorded. The broad-leaved
Thalassodendron ciliatum commonly associated with the narrower and longer-leaved
Ctymodocea ccrrulata. In very shelte-ad -arcs, !-'3!cduIe.#A/r.ht! and Thalassia-hempnichii
occur. Syringodium isoetifolia, a grass with almost cylindrical, narrow leaves, may intrude
sparsely. Zoostera also forms conspicuous sea meadows in places.
Seahorses occur in the area. There is a global concem about their commercial
exploitation as they are considered endangered species.
Salt Marsh Plants
Salt-marsh plants occur in some supralittoral areas, including the Espirito Santo estuary,
and these, too, may contribute significantly to the overall productivity of the Bay. The
species involved include the rush, Juncus kraussi and grasses such as Sporobolus
virginicus, Digitaria natalensis and Acrostichum aureum. The Halophytes Chenolea diffusa
and Sesuvium portulacastrum form a wide belt at the level of high water of springs in
some areas. Salicomia invades the bare sand during summer.
Fish
Maputo Bay is extremely rich in fish, hundreds of species being recorded. Some 50
species are thought to be endemic to the littoral waters of southem Mozambique and
northern Natal. The coral reefs of Barreira Vermelha and Ponta Torres, despite their
relatively small size, support by far the greatest diversity of fishes in the Bay. At least 25
families of fishes are resident on the reefs and dependent on the coral both for food and
shelter. The total number of species is over one hundred.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          15



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
As far as the other species of the Bay are concerned, most attention has been paid to
species of commercial importance, notably the kelee shad, Hilsa kelee, which forms the
basis of an intensive gillnet fishery. The fish are abundant throughout the Bay and in its
estuaries, juveniles being particularly abundant inshore. They are caught by beach seines
in water only one to two metres deep and are also taken by gill-net in the estuaries.
The Indian pellona, Pellona ditchela, occurs in the Bay and it is caught as an effect of the
shrimp fishery.
The orangemouth thryssa, Thrissa vitrirostris, which is closely related to the Indian
pellona, occupies much the same distribution and is usually caught in the same hauls.
Sharks and rays are common in the Indian Ocean and enter the bay, some of the smaller
species may be resident.
Dolphins
Seven species of dolphin occur along the Mozambique coast and two of these enter the
Bay, even within the port, sometimes in considerable numbers. The species in evidence
are the Humpback Dolphin, Sousa chinensis, and the Indian Ocean Bottlenosed Dolphin,
Tursiops truncatus.
Holothurians
The holothurian (sea cucumber) Holothuria scabra is caught all over the Bay except near
river mouths. It is boiled, dried and exported to China as a delicacy. There is no record of
HolothUrip "rccurrence rnerby the port area. -
Invertebrates
A wide range of small invertebrates such as crabs, clams, sea urchins, rock oysters and
sand oysters are collected for food by local people. 60% of the animal prQtein consumed
by the coastal communities comes from coastal invertebrates.
A number of large, sedentary invertebrates are associated with the corals, including the
giant clams Tridacna maxima and T. squamosa and various Cnidaria. Commensals
include xanthid and coral gall crabs and shrimps such as Stenopus hispidus. Larger,
mobile crabs and lobsters occur on the reefs, which also have an abundant and diverse
echinoderm fauna. A prominent group comprises the carnivorous molluscs, including a
variety of whelks and octopus, e.g. Octopus granulatus.
Well over 50 species of invertebrates inhabit the mangrove areas of the Bay and about
half of these are Crustacea. They include five species of the fiddler crab genus Uca, six
species of sesarmid leaf-eating crabs, the land crab Cardisoma, the burrowing prawn
Upogebia and, in sandy drainage channels, the ocypodid crab Macrophthalmus
depressus.
Gastropod molluscs (snails) are common, as well as a variety of insect species. The tidal
mangrove channels have their own distinct fauna, including several species of importance
to the local human community.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         16



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Among these are the edible crab Scylla serrata, oysters and juvenile shrimps, including
commercially exploited Penaeus monodon and Metapenaeus monoceros.
The seagrass meadows, which cover much of the seabed in shallow water, support a
great diversity of invertebrate life, many of the species invading sheltered sand banks.
Crustacea in this habitat include a variety of amphipods, isopods, crabs and smaller forms
not found elsewhere in the Maputo Bay system. There are also several bivalve and
gastropode molluscs, including the ark shell, Anadara antiquata, the venus shell,
Eumarcia paupercula and carnivorous whelks such as Murex brevispinna. The sand
mussel Modiolus philppinarium may also be found in shallow water. Wormcasts, made by
acorn worms of the genus Balanoglossus are a prominent feature. Squid are fairly
common.
The mudflat fauna of the Espirito Santo estuary is low in species diversity but fairly high in
abundance. It is dominated by the ocypodid crab Tylodiplax blephanskios followed in
abundance by the bivalve Macoma sp. A few other Crustacea and Bivalvia were present
in the mud in low numbers, as well as polychaete worms.
Birds
The most abundant waders include Wimbrels (Numenius phaetopus), Curlew Sandpiper
(Calidris ferruginea) and grey plover (Pluvialis squatarola).
The Greater Flamingo, Phoenicopterus ruber, and the Lesser Flamingo, Phoeniconaias
minor, are both common in Maputo Bay and adjacent estuaries but there is no record of
eith^. S-cc;i  breed,ng in the area. Other species that occtlr in Maputo Bay iclude,
Woollynecked Stork, Ciconia episcopus, which occurs in wetlands and the intertidal zone;
four species of herons (Ardeidae) in the sandflats, as well as the Cattle Egret and the Little
Egret. Several species of duck also occur.
Three species of cormorants (Phalacrocoracidae) are resident in Maputo Bay:
Whitebreasted Cormorant, Cape Cormorant and the Reed Cormorant. Pink-backed
pelicans occur in small numbers but do not breed in the area. Offshore birds include no
less than ten species of terns (Laridae) and two species of gulls, which are not very
common.
Ocean birds, such as several species of albatross and petrel, as well as the Cape Gannet,
may be seen from time to time flying over the Bay but do not normally alight either in the
Bay or on its shores.
The Bay of Maputo is the northern limit of distribution of the endangered Jackass Penguin,
Spheniscus demersus. However, it is a non-breeding visitor and its occurrence is rare.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         17



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Poit Restructurng Project
Table 1: Bird species diversity, species status, number of breeding species and bird
community size of shore birds in Matola Port (Coal Terminal).
Category                        Coal Terminal
Species Diversity                                     25
Common Species                                        20
Rare Species
Red Data Book Species                                 2
Palaeoarctic Migrant Species                          9
INTER-AFRICAN MIGRANT SPECIES                         2
Uncommon Species                                      5
Breeding Species                                      1
Shore-Bird Community Size                           4570
Source: MISP EIR, 1998
In terms bf endangered species (Southern Africa Red Data Book, Maclean, 1993) the
Pink-backed Pelican - Pelecanus rufescens and Caspian tern - Hydroprogne caspia were
recorded in the area. Three pairs of breeding Black-winged Stilt Himantopus himantopus
were recorded in the grassy areas nearby the shore.
Maputo Corridor
Vegetation
The Maputo Corridor crosses the following vegetation units (Wild & Barbosa, 1968) - see
-figure 10:
- Vegetation on alluvium (mapping unit 54)
-  Sublitoral woodland and forest (Albizia adiantifollia- Afzelia quazensis-Sclerocarya
birrea)
mapping unit 34
- Boscia albintunca-Acacia spp (mapping unit 59)
-  Libombos woodland-shrubland (Pterocarpus rotundifolius-Bauhinia galpinil)
mapping unit 41
- Acacia woodland (mapping unit)
- Vegetation on saline soils (mapping unit 62)
- Themeda - Turbina (mapping unit 69)
- Mopane woodland (Colosphospemum ) -mapping unit 50
- Terminalia sericea (mapping unit 47)
SUBLITTORAL WOODLAND AND FOREST (Equivalent to Mapping Unit 34, Wild and
Barbosa, 1967)
An Albizia-Afzelia-Sclerocarya mainly open woodland occurs between Maputo and Macia
in the sublittoral zone of Mozambique South of the R. Limpopo. The soils are reddish,
orange or grey, more or less rippled, sandy, with badly drained or waterlogged
depressions containing soils with black organic matter (machongos).
/mpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         18



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurng Project
It occupies a large sublittoral belt in the extratropical zone from the southern boundary of
Mozambique to the River Limpopo where Brachystegia communities begin to be sporadic.
The rainfall is 900-1200 mm. p.a.
The large areas in which only wild species (and some introduced species) with edible
fruits are left may be considered as "indigenous orchards". They adjoin the localities with
dense rural populations. The commonest introduced orchard species is the cashew
(Anacardium occidentale) which is now sub-spontaneous. Mangifera indica ('mango') is
also subspontaneous in more recently occupied areas.
LIBOMBOS WOODLAND/SHRUBLAND (Equivalent to Mapping Unit 41, Wild and
Barbosa, 1967)
This vegetation type occurs at moderate altitude between 350 and 800 m. on the Libombo
and Pequenos Libombos Mountains (Namaacha, Goba, etc.). These are hilly areas near
the border with Swaziland and South Africa. The soils are mainly shallow, reddish and
clayey derived from rhyolites. The rainfall is 600-1200 mm. p.a.
The dominant species are Pterocarpus rotundifolius and Bauhinia galpinii.
MOPANE WOODLAND (Equivalent to Mapping Unit 50, Wild and Barbosa, 1967)
Mopane woodland, after miombo woodland, is the second most important woodland type
in Mozambique. This formation occurs in the North section of the Limpopo line, between
the Limpopo and Save Rivers.
The soils are Quaternary, lacustrine, calcareous formations, with lacustrine alluvial
depressions or pockets in the Cretaceous. The rainfall is irregular and light, being less
than 400 mm. p.a. and decreasing inland.
The vegetation varies with different soil types according to whether they are derived from
different lacustrine formations that may be more or less calcareous or sandy, or with
changes in topography that may be slight but still significant.
The typical mopane tree savanna is more or less open and in very variable but generally
calcareous soils. Accompanying species are Ximenia americana, Salvadora angustifolia
var australis, Azima tetracantha, Adenium obesum var. multiflorum, Boscia albitrunca,
Pachypodium saundersii, Dombeya kirkii, Sansevieria spp., Euphorbia spp., Courbonia
glauca, etc.
ACACIA WOODLAND (Equivalent to Mapping Unit 54, Wild and Barbosa, 1967)
Acacia woodland occurs in central Mozambique comprising communities of scattered
trees and shrubs where Acacia nigrescens is dominant in the tree/shrub layer.
It occurs on soils derived from basalt which are generally shallow or skeletal, black and
heavy, or, from Cretaceous to recent deposits with sandstones and conglomerates.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       19



. A.                                              O                Uncu uS
0 
A-                              0~~~~~
. '< tS . *                   500
.          0                         ,,,,    |  M.l,'
00I
62 AuYl Formelion on Saline Soils
,      411'5 4   Formnalionis on alluviums
|- 1V -VI]t t,,,,,, lW,I¢
3fl]]E  Baikiaea-Colophiospermium. Buv*ea.  ilin
5 ',!}    DRY SEMI-DECIDUOUS (Lowland-Subl   toral)
14JJSideroxyIon-Afzelia-Ficds'Ba1anites
34   ~~Albizia- Afzefia-SZlerocatya (Loureni;o Marques)
2Figure   10  Bracliystegia spiciformis (Sut b`Save Sands)
50111 1968)
AJ,
* 1
Figure 10. Vegetationi uniits crossed by theo Maputo corridor (Wild &
Barbosa, 1968)



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Poil Restructuring Project
They are sometimes calcareous and more rarely somewhat saline. The rainfall is about
500-1000 mm. and very variable. The appearance of this savanna is somewhat
xeromorphic.
VEGETATION ON SALINE SOILS (Equivalent to Mapping Unit 62, Wild and Barbosa,
1967)
In Mozambique there are some areas with halophytic mostly herbaceous vegetation that
occurs inland. A large expanse of this inland halophytic vegetation type is found in the
valley of the Changane River, a tributary of the Limpopo.
The rainfall is about 500mm p.a. The salinity is mainly due to excess sodium chloride,
although other salts are often present. The soils are known locally as "tonga". These
areas are very arid and uninhabited.
Near the Rio Changane the salinity is very high and the flora is strictly halophytic with
succulent, creeping species of Arthrocnemum sp. Chenolea and Salicomia. There are
also, here and there, scattered bushes of Atriplex, Suaeda, etc.
2.1.7. Socio-Economic Status
The population from the study area belongs to the ethnic group Tsonga and is subdivided
into two ethnic groups: the Changana from Maputo province and the Ronga from Gaza
province. The main languages along the corridor areas are Changane and Ronga.
The Maputo Corridor crosses two provinces, several districts and many localities (see
Table 2 below).
Table 2. Districts crossed by the Maputo Corridor and population per province
Province                 District                 Population
Maputo                                           . 1 775 000
Maputo
Boane
Namaacha
Goba
Moamba
Matutuine
Gaza                                              1 034 000
Chokwe
Guija
Mabalane
____________________Chicualacuala
Source: Anuario Estatistico 1997.      _
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         20



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Traditionally, the area is characterised by a high migration rate. Men from Maputo and
Gaza Provinces immigrate to South Africa seeking employment. Consequently, the
livelihood of families is dependent on the role of women who are the mainstay of slash
and burn agriculture and the harvesting of natural resources such as firewood, fruit, inter-
tidal resources, palm wine production, thatching and water.
A high number of people also emigrated from the districts most affected by the war, mainly
to Maputo City, Boane District and Xai-Xai City.
Maputo City concentrates 6% of the total population of the country, estimated at 15 740
000 inhabitants.
Several industries and most of the Government Departments are located in Maputo. The
Port, good network of roads and rail-lines connecting Mozambique to South Africa and
Zimbabwe, a relatively well developed and working telecommunication system, good
climate and workforce in abundance are the major factors which contribute to the
concentration of services and infrastructures in Maputo city.
The area of the subsidiary port of Matola has a population estimated at 25 440. Being a
highly urbanised area the population density closely approximates 3 775.6 people per
km2.
Historically, CFM has been one of the most important sources of employment in the
country. In CFM-Sul there are around 7337 workers in Maputo and different delegations
c!dng the corridor.
Table 3. Number of workers employed by CFM SUL
Executive Directorates     CFM - SUL
Maputo          Delegations
Support area               1428            70
Port area                  2156            57
Corridor area              3263            363
TOTAL                      6847            490
Source: Inforrna,o Estatistica, 1997.
The economic importance of the Maputo Corridor increased with the implementation of
several "mega-projects" such as Mozal (aluminium factory), the Iron and Steel factory and
others that could have a synergistic effect on the region. The rail-line and port will serve
for the transport of raw material to the factories and for the exportation of the final
products.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         21






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2.2. BEIRA PORT AND CORRIDOR
INTRODUCTION
The Port of Beira, situated on the left bank of the estuary of the Pungue and Buzi rivers in
the eastern African Coast (19° 50'S and 340 50'E), is the natural port of central
Mozambique. Beira Port also serves Zimbabwe, Malawi, Zambia, Botswana and Zaire.
(Figure 11).
The Port is situated 20km from the open sea. Ships calling at Beira Port have to pass a
dredged channel of considerable length through an extensive area with gullies and shoals
before being able to berth at the quays of Beira Port. The minimum depth in the present
navigation channel of some 5,5 m below chart Datum determines the all time permissible
draught of vessels leaving or arriving at Beira. Vessels with draughts up to 9 m,
corresponding to ship's sizes of about 20.000 DWT, are able to enter and leave the port
during high tides. It is not unusual that even small ships are unduly delayed by adverse
tidal conditions.
The Beira Corridor consists of the Beira Port, Pipeline system (oil transportation to
Zimbabwe) and two Railway Lines to Zimbabwe and Malawi. It serves as an import/export
axis for Mozambique and for the Republics of Zimbabwe, Malawi, Zambia, Botswana and
Zaire.
Beira is the second port of Mozambique in terms of capacity, tonnage handled and the
vo,ume of imports and expcrts hai,dlad.       . ;
2.2.1. Climate
Beira Port
Beira is situated in the tropics, featuring a warm rainy season from -November to April and
a cooler dry season during the rest of the year. This pattern is shown in Table 4 and
Figure 12 below.
Table 4: Mean monthly air temperature (IC) and rainfall (mm) measured at Beira
airport during the period 1987-1996.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
MeanTemp 27.8 27.9 27.2 25.7 23.9 21.7 20.9 21.8 23.5 25.0 26.5 27.3
Rel.Humid  71.8 73.1 72.8 72.8 74.4 73.2 74.4 73.9 70.8 69.2 69.1 70.1
Rainfall    254. 233. 229. 113. 80.2 47.7 40.4 39.1 11.6 40.0 81.3 166.
Source:Tetra (1998).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         22



0\ '   - ' 
~~~~~~~~~Ofln 3UA , C C l /
'' I                             J,. IPI~
CC-Eu i' ''.                                                                   -  OAC
.-  ---I                                                                          ,
A,  zDf*^nssEnvlE    .                             di       /'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M3LjAl#
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LC. OflnUSNICing  S. 2-'
A"D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Figure -I0  Be\ra Port
lifi9.F.^t   UAY 5                                                                 Of WAGONS> ;  
stnvbCf Pom         t W S}~~.F                                        CFM/X  * i
,,,,_~~~~~ V   9
Poril~igr   1.Ber  Pr



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Fge1. .M
a.,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
DR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 ...
Figure~~~~ 12.Mothly vaito4nar eprtr  ndrifl tBer18-96
The study area is located in a region where two climatic regimes overlap, the East African
Monsoon System in which air circulation alternates between NE during the southem
'tmner and SX! during-winter, and the Indian Or<n RmIhtrinicoI antiQyclone System.that.
rules the dominant easterlies. As a consequence, the predominant wind directions
recorded at Beira during the last 25 years are from ENE to SE.
Although the frequency of winds stronger than 10 m.s' is typically less than 1% from
February to August and about 1-2% from September to January, the region is regularly
struck by tropical storms originating in the central Indian Ocean. These devastating
storms occur mostly from November to April and may feature winds of gale force (greater
than 60 km/h) and large amounts of precipitation. The annual frequency of occurrence of
these storms in the Mozambique Channel was 3.1 in the period between 1911 and 1960.
During tropical storms, rainfall may be far above the mean values, e.g. 347.3mm of rain in
24 hours, recorded at Beira in March 1986.
According to statistics from the Instituto Nacional de Metereologia, 23 cyclones have
affected the Mozambique coast over the last thirty years. Cyclones are generated in the
South Western Indian Ocean in the period November to April, and affect Beira especially
in February and March.
Fog is in general uncommon. During May until September, visibility is limited to about one
kilometre during approximately 1% of the time. In the wet season, visibility can be poor
during heavy rainfall.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          23



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Beira Corridor
The climate of Central Mozambique is tropical ranging from humid at the coast to arid in
Tete Province and a climate modified by the presence of mountains in Manica Province.
Annual average temperature for Sofala, Manica and Tete Province ranges from 180C to
260C. The relative humidity is around 55% - 74% and annual rainfall around 1 000 mm -
1 500mm.
2.2.2. Coastal Processes and Dynamics
The Rivers Pungue and Buzi rise in the mountainous area close to the border with
Zimbabwe and follow respectively a South Eastern and eastern course into the coastal
plain. The Pungue River, being the more important river, reaches the coastal plain 55km
upstream of Beira.
The tide in Beira is semidiurnal with a daily inequality of about 0.4 m. The tidal range at
Beira is large; mean spring tidal range and mean neap tidal range amount respectively to
5.7 and 1.6 m.
The tide introduces strong in and outgoing tidal currents in the Pungue estuary. These
currents (in particular during the wet season) are affected by the river discharges. Heavy
rainfall in the catchment areas of the Pungue and Buzi Rivers causes considerable fresh
water discharge into the estuary, generating a residual seaward flow due to the
di4serync- in1 -l  -+Ay IZ=n seawater Prad river vater.
Maximum river discharges in the Pungue and Buzi Rivers respectively are about 600 m3/s
and 300 m3/s and mostly occur in December/January. Average flows during the dry
season are respectively about 80 m3/s and 50 m3/s. Ebb current velocities in front of the
quays during spring tides in the wet season often exceed 2 m/s.
Outside the estuary in the outer channel areas the Mozambique current influences tidal
currents. This SW-drift persists throughout the year with velocities of 0.5 m/s. Its influence
may well be extended across the Sofala bank. The SW wave-induced long shore drift
along the beaches East of Beira also influences the currents in the outer channel areas.
Furthermore, the current patterns in this area will be influenced by wind. In the Macuti and
Portela channels, being flood channels, the flood currents have dominance, whilst in the
rambler channel ebb currents are predominant, more so during the wet season.
The complex water movements in the lower Pungue estuary and Sofala bank area result
in strong currents that transport large quantities of sediment. In the outer channel areas
these intermittent sediment transports are also influenced by wave action. In general
suspended silt transport prevails, whilst during storm conditions transport of sandy
sediments also become relevant.
Usually waves prevail from the SE quarter. Generally wave periods are between 5-6
seconds. Swell with a period of 10-11 seconds from the SE is nearly always present. The
maximum-recorded wave height at the entrance of the Macuti Channel was 2.5-3m.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        24



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2.2.3. Geology and Geomorphology
Beira Port
Beira is located on a coastal sandy plain of alluvial, coluvial and eluvial sedimentary rocks
of the Quaternary.
Beira Corridor
The geology of Central Mozambique provides great heterogeneity of rock structures,
many of which have undergone repeated tectonic fractures and earth movements since
the Precambrian.
The Rift Valley plains of recent alluvium, colluvium and eluvium separate a western
Midland of Pre-Cambriam metamorphic crystalline rocks (Barue and Manica-Midlands)
from an eastern cruesta block of Cretaceous to recent sediments forming the Cheringoma
Plateau.
The metamorphic crystalline sediments are formed chiefly from quartzite's of the Frontier
Formation, Umkondo schist's and quartzite's, small areas of Manhica talc schist's, chlorite
schist's, quartzite's, serpentines, banded ironstones and green stones. These
metamorphic outcrops are interrupted by granite-gneiss of the basement complex.
The physiography of Central Mozambique comprises a steeped topography rising abruptly
inland (the Midlands has rugged and precipitous scenery up to 2 000 m elevation) to the
oncftrn Arc:=s Fscarpment frnm -a low coastline wh.ich is frnntiri by v   hrnnd shallow
continental shelf 120Km wide.
2.2.4. Soils
Beira Port
The coastal zone around Beira City consists mainly of sands and clayey sands of medium
fertility and marine alluvial saline soil (marine muck soils).
The soils of Beira port are classified into the following main soil types: blue grey clayey
sand; fine to medium with thin layers of firm clay; grey yellow sand, medium to coarse,
densely packed; blue grey sandy clay, very soft to soft; blue grey clay, soft to firm; brown
grey sandy clay with limestone concretions, firm to stiff and brown grey clay, very stiff to
hard.
Beira Corridor
The soils of the region are closely related to geomorphological history and current
landform. Fluviolacustrine alluvium soils in the coastal areas, sands (psammo, fersialtic,
hydromorphic) at Cheringoma Plateau. Separating the eastem portion of Central
Mozambique (Manica Platform and Barue) that consists of basement rock of
ferralic/fersialtic soils that runs to the Rift Valley and the river valleys where fluvio, lacustric
and alluvium soils occur.
lmpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           25



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
2.2.5. HYDROLOGY (GROUND AND SURFACE WATER)
Beira Port
The coastal region bordering Beira City is swampy and crossed by several small rivers
(Figure 13), from South to north: Buzi, Pungue, Macuti, Rio Maria, Rio Ladrao,
Nhamaroja, and Savane. The latter is actually a larger river that runs from West to East,
providing a main drainage from the Cheringoma hills, and then curbs South, at the limit of
the study area. Numerous creeks that allow the tidal flood of this system cross the
extensive mangrove forests that cover most of the coastal area in this region.
The River Pungue discharges into the centre of a major coastal retrogression, which is not
followed by the continental shelf. An extensive shallow area, known as the Sofala Bank
and traversed by numerous tidal channels, separates the port from the deep water of the
Mozambique Channel.
The total water flux through the coastal plain system may be considerable, especially
during the rainy season, and during spring tides, but no figures are available. However,
runoff values for the Punaue and Buzi rivers, south of the study region, and whose water
influences the region are known. The Buzi yields some 300m3s-1 during the rainy season
and about 50m3s-1 in the dry season. Equivalent values for the Pungue are 600m3s-' and
80m3s-' (Tetra 1998.)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            26



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Por Restructuring Project
ZAMBIA      MLWK
\4Cbor
Bass
'I', ~ ~    V
7 )
B
B
W
,,/               0  100  200 Km
Figure 13. River Network in Central Mozambique (adapted from Tetra 1998.)
Data collected from Beira Port, the Access Channel, designated dumping areas and
offshore have reveal that banks occur along the Access Channel from Beira Port to Macuti
Light House during low tides.
The hydrographic regime in this region is complex, since it is the result of the interaction
between regional and local winds, the tidal regime, bottom topography, and the runoff
from Pungue and Buzi Rivers. The geostrophic circulation promotes the development of a
northbound current over the shelf that carries water, sediments and nutrients into the area
from the two above mentioned major rivers. As a result of this current, as well as the
coastal configuration and local winds, a coastal counter-current develops (Figure 14).
One of the consequences of this counter-current is the formation of coastal sandbars and
associated coastal lagoons. This longshore drift is also associated with the destructive
nature of the prevailing wave types that sweep the Sofala Bank coast, which are mainly
short, low waves. Waves with a height of 8-10 meters can be observed during the
occurrence of storms.
impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          27



to..                                           10' 
R'I                        4 - I
| Figure 14. Coastal counter-currents in Beira -
*10
< I/~Figr 14  osa½         ojtr-urnsi  er



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2.2.6. Fauna/Flora
Beira Port
Vegetation
Beira lies within a coastal mosaic comprising different vegetation types including dune
forest, woodland, grassland and mangroves (Figure 15). The natural pattern of vegetation
is markedly influenced by urbanisation. Mangrove vegetation and wetland areas were the
most affected.
Coastal habitats and associated fauna
The Sofala Bank is characterised by a great diversity of habitats ranging from, coastal
estuarine to neritic-oceanic, and oceanic. Large extensions of mud and sand flats that are
exposed during low tide, estuarine mangrove flora, neritic, subtidal and pelagic systems
comprise the most peculiar habitats surrounding Beira City. Adjacent wetlands (salt-
mashes) are important sites for migratory and resident aquatic birds. Coastal lagoons are
also present in the area.
Man groves/Swam ps/Estuaries
The mangrove forests are sensitive ecosystems that play essential roles in the health of
adjacent coastal and marine habitats.
Mangroves are very important as nurseries for feeding and shelter for a great variety of
juvenile crustaceans and fish. Many mangroves species are associated with estuaries at
Sofala Bank. The mangroves are the only trees adapted to living in saline tidal waters.
The ecological role of the mangroves is well recognised.
Due to their capacity to shed large quantities of leaves which adds to the organic matter
and traps the sediments from inland sources, the estuaries constitute a nutrient source for
the immediate marine environment.
They also stabilise mud banks by means of their root systems and protect the coast from
storms and hurricanes.
They are present in the southern and northern part of Beira City combining with other
vegetation types. Mangrove formations occurring in this area are more diverse and larger
than those in the southern part of the country.
Information on the composition and abundance of the resident species in these special
systems are not available for this area. However, data on species composition of the
northern part of Beira City show the occurrence of seven mangrove tree species:
Rhizophora mucronata, Bruguiera gymnorhizza, Cenops tagal, Avicennia marina,
Lumnitzera racemoasa, Sonneratia alba, Pemphys acidula and Henitiera littoralis.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           28



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Mangrove-associated fauna in Beira is very diverse. Recent qualitative observations of the
macrofauna in the estuarine mangrove areas of Sengo, Savane, Nhangau and Chisape
nearby the city have identified the presence of the following species: Crustaceans - Uca
annulipes, Uca vocans, Uca chlorophthalmus, Uca gaimardi, Uca urvillei, Sesarrna
guttatum, Neosarmatium meinertii, Macrophthalmus lesei, Scylla serrata.
Molluscs - Cerithidea decolata and Litorina litorina.
In spite of a lack of detailed studies it is evident that the area exhibits very diverse fauna.
The findings presented in this section are at best, very superficial.
From  the survey Sesarna guttatum, Neosarmatium  meinerti as well as Cerithidea
decolata were the most abundant animals.
Swamp and estuarine habitats are also common in the Beira area. Swamp or estuarine
coast is characterised by estuaries, which are sensitive habitats and have a variety of
associated animal and plant species. Estuaries are the meeting place of fresh and inland
water and saline coastal waters. The interaction between the two types of water bodies is
crucial for the proper functioning of estuaries
These communities are very sensitive to environmental perturbation. Pollutants, human
impact and siltation processes all impact on species composition.
Tidal Lagoons
Around Beira there are two major coastal lagoons, one at the mouth of Rio Maria and Rio
Macuti, the other at the mouth of the larger Savane River.
These coastal lagoons were apparently formed by coastal drift, since the orientation of
their seaward sandbars is in a Northeast-Southwest direction. These sandbars are
extremely sensitive systems due to unconsolidated rock of recent formation origin and
because they are subjected to storms.
Besides providing protection to the mangrove forests in their backwaters, these coastal
lagoons are also valuable environments where several estuarine species of fish and
crustaceans dwell, such as the grey mullet (Mugilidae) and the Kelee shad (Hilsa kelee).
These species are quite important locally, both commercially and as food items (pers.
obs.)
The Sand Beach, Sand and mud Banks
Extensive sand beaches, sand and mudflats exist along the coast of Beira. Different
species of crabs and molluscs can be observed in these areas. However no quantitative
studies have been carried out to date.
In the sand and mud banks and flats around Beira city, an abundant bottom fauna
associated with the substrate can be seen. Crustaceans, Polychaetes, Molluscs, and
other invertebrates are the most conspicuous groups in the area.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        29



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Coral Reefs
Coral reefs are not known to occur in the Sofala Bank. The hydrological conditions are not
favourable for the development of these communities due to the high level of siltation.
Other Benthic fauna
Scarce data are available on the subtidal benthic fauna and flora of Mozambique.
However, it is known that the fauna associated with the near-shore seafloor in the tropical
Indian Ocean is typically dominated by polychaetes and other worms, and crustaceans.
Molluscs are usually much less abundant than the other faunal groups. In this region, and
especially in the Mozambique Channel, the benthic biomass is usually less than 10 g.m 2
(Neyman et al 1973).
It is recognised that these animals are of crucial importance for marine ecosystems.
Therefore taking into account that the water parameters at Beira Port are very dynamic,
they can be subjected to different man-made effects due to port activities.
NB: Benthos composition and dynamics may provide a good measure of the health of the
environment. Studies on the benthic polychaete macrofauna in polluted estuaries, and
areas close to harbours, have shown that the poorer diversity and abundance of species
in the polluted waters was a result of the degraded health of the sediment.
The Nekton
The nektonic organisms around Beira waters can be divided into neritic and pelagic
communities.
Shallow-water shrimps and associated fish and benthic fauna dominate the inshore
community of the soft bottom grounds.
The oceanic nektonic community is characterised by small pelagic fish species, the
anchovies (Stolephorus spp. and Encrasicholina spp.), scads (Decapterus spp.) and the
Indian mackerel, Rastrelliger kanagurta. Among the demersal nekton, different species of
crustaceans are found, such as Penaeus latisulcatus (western king prawn) and the slipper
lobsters (Scyllaridae), as well as different species of fish. Several species of the families
Mullidae (mullets), Synodontidae (lizard fish) and Nemipteridae (threadfin breams)
comprise the bulk of this fauna. Small numbers of these species can be found in inshore
samples.
Among the invertebrates of the inshore nektonic community, shallow water shrimp is one
of the groups found in the study area and is commercially exploited by a fleet based in
Beira. This group of species of the family Penaeidae spend part of their life cycle in
estuaries. Normally the females spawn in deeper waters, and the different larval stages
migrate to the estuaries and develop in the mangroves up to the juvenile stage.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          30



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Prpject
The juveniles enter the sea when there is a change in environmental conditions, notably
salinity.
The main species found south of the Zambezi River were Penaeus indicus (white shrimp)
and Metapenaeus monoceros (brown shrimp) which form almost the total of the entire
shrimp catch. Other species also occurring were P. japonicus (flower shrimp), P.
monodon (tiger shrimp) and M. stebbingi (peregrine shrimp).
The composition of the other groups of species (excluding shrimp) which appear in
catches is given in Table 5. It is clear that the demersal fishes are the dominant group
followed by the pelagic fish, but the proportions of these two groups varied between the
years.
Table 5. Composition of the shrimp by-catch by group of species in the area south
of the Zambezi River delta, from surveys made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 (%.)
YEAR        1992  1993    1994
Crabs              1,2   0,0      0,5
Other crustaceans   0,2   0,2     0,1
Cephalopods        0,3   0,3      0,0
Demersal Fishes    56,0  86,5    94,6
Pelagic Fishes    41,7   8,4      4,0
Demersal fishes are mainly represented by Johnius amblicephalus (bellfish), J.
dussumieri (bearded croacker), Otolities ruber (tigertootih croacker), Ariodes dussumieri
(blacktip sea catfish) and Pomadasys maculatum (saddle grunt). The dominant pelagic
species are Pellona ditchela (Indian pellona) and Thryssa vitrirostris (orangemouth
thryssa.) Crabs are mainly represented by Portunus pelagicus (pelagic swimming crab),
while the group "other crustaceans" include several species of mantis shrimps and small,
non-commercial species of shrimp. Cephalopods include squids and cuttlefish.
One of the groups of fish with importance in the area are the species associated with the
hard bottom, referred to in 4.2 above, that are not accessible to bottom trawl. Species of
the families Lethrinidae and Luyanidae are important line-fish species.
Another group seldom recorded in bottom trawl hauls are the larger pelagic species,
especially the spanish mackerels Scomberomorus commerson, S. maculatus, S. guttatus,
and S. plunilineatus, and several species of sharks (Carcharhinus spp.).
Marine Mammals and Turtles
Five species of turtles were recorded in the Indian Ocean, of which three may occur in the
Beira area, namely the loggerhead turtle, Caretta caretta, hawksbill turtle, Eretmochelys
imbnicata, and the green turtle, Chelonia midas (pers. com.). However this needs to'be
confirmed.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         31



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnucturing Project
Humpback whales (Megaptera novaeanglia) were sighted very near the Beira coast in the
months of September and November, 1977 (Saetre and Paula e Silva 1979.) Apparently,
these marine mammals undertake breeding migrations through the western part of the
Mozambique Channel during these months.  Other large whales of the genus
Balaenoptera were also sighted further offshore during the first expedition of the RN "Dr.
Fridtiof Nansen." Dolphins, probably Tursiops truncatus, were also sighted in that same
expedition, always in large groups and sometimes inside the study area (Satre and Paula
e Silva 1979.)
In Beira coastal waters, dugongs have never been reported.
Beira Corridor
Vegetation
The vegetation of the area crossed by the Beira Corridor comprises a stepped sequence
of dry and moist formations related to the physiography and climate of the area. Mountain
rain forest and arid saline grasslands of the Rift floor are juxtaposed (Figure 15).
From Beira eastward to the Zimbabwe border the railway and the pipeline cross
Physiographic areas with distinct broad vegetation types: A seasonally-inundated lowland
formation (the Gorongosa "tandos") links the Zambezi Valley with the Pungue system in
the South via the Urema trough (Rift Valley). Tree species include Acacia spp. and
Hyphaene sp. Moist (Lowland) formations of Pteleopsis myrtifolia and Newtonia. Going
West of the rift Valley a narrow strip of Julbemardia globiflora in the south and
Brachyste.qia boehmii, Brachystegia allenii in the north forms a curtain that separates an
extension of Julbemardia globiflora with Ostryoderris-Sclerocarya that extends close to
the border with Zimbabwe.
A Moist Semi-Deciduous-Mesoplana and Lowland-Pleteopsis myrtifolia or Newtonia-
Erythophleum runs in the southern part of the Pungue River in parallel to atail strip of the
Julbemardia globiflora with Ostryoderris-Sclerocarya extension. Along the eastern border
with Zimbabwe and Malawi where the Mozambique plains rises up.. sharply to the western
rim of the great southern African plateau, Afromontane elements are common and occur
in small "island" habitats.
Moist forest formations occur on foothills, on slopes and in valleys between 500 and 1500
m where mean annual rainfall is between 1700 mm and 2000 mm. Species of Parinari
curatellifolia and the Moist evergreen - Maranthes polyandra-Aphloia macaranga are the
most abundant tree species.
From Beira northward to Malawi and Moatize the major vegetation types are fringing
Mangroves around the coast and estuaries as well as species of Hyphaena, Phoenix or
Borassus along the sand coast separated from the lower Gorongosa.
Dry Mixed - lowland - Adansonia-Cordila-Brachystegia-Pteleopsis separated, the Rift
Valley vegetation from the Moist lowland Pteleopsis murtifolia or Newtonia-Erytthrophleum
and the coastal vegetation type of Hyphaena, Phoenix and Borassus. Along the eastern
bank of Zambezi River in the north of Sofala a strip of Acacia spp., Hyphaena, as well as
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        32



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Porl Restructunng Project
Adansonia-Sterculia-Cordyla extends South until the border with Zimbabwe and continues
with a narrow stripe of Colophospermum). Along the northwestern side of the Rift Valiey a
large formation of saline soils extends up to the Adansonia-Sterculia-Cordyla.
Terrestrial Fauna
Central Mozambique was traditionally a species rich area with a large diversity and
abundance of big game and was frequently visited by tourists.
Prior to the armed conflict (c. 1982 - 1992) large mammal populations were reported to be
healthy and increasing in most of the protected areas network. During the long period of
conflict it was not possible to carry out surveys in any of the protected areas.
During this period there was much speculation regarding the status of large mammals in
the protected and rural areas. After the end of civil unrest period primary data gathered
showed a massive decline in large mammal populations. In Gorongosa National Park the
number of elephant prior to the conflict was in the order of 3000 whilst in 1994 only 108
elephants were recorded. Similar massive declines were recorded for buffalo (from 14,000
in 1979 to zero in 1994), hippo (from 4800 in 1979 to zero in 1994), wildebeest (from 5500
in 1968 to zero in 1994) and water buck (3500 in 1988 to 129 in 1994).
A similar devastating trend was recorded for Marromeu Buffalo Reserve. The Reserve,
famous for it's large herds of buffalo, boasted 20,000 buffalo in 1968 - in 1994 the
estimate was 2346 animals. Other large mammal species showed similar declines.
Changes in large mammal populations for Gorongosa National Park and Marromeu
Buffalo Reserve are given in Tables 6 and 7. Note: these data are based on aerial
transect surveys and larger populations may still occur in densely wooded areas. Recent
information indicates the large mammal populations are recovering in the Gorongosa
National Park and Marromeu Reserve (Chande, B. pers. comm).
,,
Table 6. Population data for large mammal species, Gorongosa National Park
(n/d = no data)
1968   1970   1979   1993    1994
Elephant     2200   1900   3000        4      108
Buffalo     14000  11900  18000        0        0
Hippo        3000   3200  4800         0        0
Wildebeest   5500   4900   1900        7        0
Waterbuck    3500   2500    800    200        129
Zebra        3000    N/D    N/D        7       65
Eland         500    N/D    N/D        0        0
Sable        N7D      N/D    N/D    700        12
Hartebeest    800    N/D    N/D        0      156
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        33



0  O.      *~J   K.)                                                                 ' 
.                                 f    p                             30                t Jlernri glbn
A  s y   ( rGr
39   2  Parinari curatelliZolia                            9      E       MOIST (Lowemd landu)bia (Loland
51 FwJ    Diplorhynchus - Pterocarpus bsenanii                   i             arachytegia PolYman-dransponiaMcrng
18~~~~~~~~ E9  Brcysei  *tn(d -Juothrnarard                        globiloa2   +        rcytgasiiflormstamelLoanIy)
'4            Acc Ityphaene phaene (owe  Gorongosa
42~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ubmni glbflr (ubmre                                   withilAnda-otrycdlnys gregarocou
_ > E >  X                                                X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oDRY M X Dlands) nd
62~~J    oratononSainue Soil    2eeato   units                                              MOISTd SEM Baboa   196I8O)    Merossed  bnd Loeeir)
29CBra chystegia Borrido Brachyslegia allenil                   '~-~-~Ai  Pieteopsis mydifalia or Newlonia. Ery:hrophleuC
,1                                  _
3 9   I X )~~ I   P a n n a n   c u r e  f e llif o lia     9   J~~ T J   M O I STh e n d ( L o w l nand )w l n d
51 J~~~~i7I1    Qiplorhynchus - Pt crocarpusMOIT brenanN (t lw an medum40titdes
LL2EJ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0LAXJ  Mlraranuhs PnolyansdsaAphloPia-Macarang
18 9.1~  Brohysieia floibund - Jilhcriwdia ~obiflio         27            rachyveg,aSPIC,Junhbs-rnardiam,globi(mpora
t ~~~~~~~~~                                                 "'i~~~~~~~~4   Ac yacia sPhoeyphaene (LowrGorogosa
23 ~ ~  Bachyslega Spicifr,ii,s- ulbenmar,a globilora            6        JDunbesadagoila(wt Adotcsgeaiu
4 2   J u l b r n a r d i   g l o b i 7 o r o . O I , y o d e m   -   S c i r e c a r y   I   D R  M I X EDa n i g lres c e n
62    Forma      Fi gurnSaie  15S    eeatoonti(id&Brbs,16)lrsesy   h                                                 er
ML2                                                                                       OITSEI     ECorridorpan  adLolad



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 7. Population Data for large mammal Species Marromeu Complex
(N/D = No Data)
1968   1977   1978   1979    1988       1990    1994
Elephant      257    331    361       373       ?      326        0
Buffalo        20  45 000     43  30 394  11 575    3696    2346
000            992
Hippo         250   2820   1010    1770       N/D      260        0
Waterbuck      40  36 380     47  45 653    6455    4480        142
300           -227
Zebra         673   1340   2120    2720       NID    1205         0
Sabie         N/D     N/D    N/D     250      N/D      N/D        0
Hartebeest    N/D     N/D    N/D     100      N/D      520        0
Reedbuck      N/D    N/D    N/D      250      N/D     N/D       20
The exact number of species of amphibia in Mozambique is unclear, due to taxonomic
uncertainty. About 28 species, mostly located in the highlands, are believed to be
endemic. Thirty-five amphibian species were recorded for the Chimanimani Massif of
which two are endemic: Bufo vertebralis grindleyi (Grindleys toad) and Arthroleptis
troglodytes (the cave squeaker).
Protected Areas
.Na"tor.a! Parks, Reserves, Controlled Areas and Vigilance Areas comprise the protected
areas of this central part of Mozambique. Gorongosa National Park, Marromeu Reserve,
Inhamitanga Forest, Nhapacue Forest and four controlled hunting areas are shown in
Figure 16. The railway line from Beira to Zimbabwe crosses Vigilance Areas and
Controlled Hunting Areas in Sofala and Manica Provinces.
The raiiway line to Malawi runs in between the Gorongosa National ParlCand Marromeu
Reserve before crossing a controlled hunting area in the North near the eastern bank of
the Zambezi River. Information concerning the wildlife species composition of those areas
is listed below (Table 8).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        34



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 8. List of large mammal species recorded for the Gorongosa National Park.
Scientific Name            English Name
Loxondonta africana                Elephant
Syncerus caffer                     Bufffalo
Connochaets taurinus              Vildebeest
Equus burchelli                     Zebra
Aepyceros melampus                  Impala
Kobus ellipsiprymnus              Waterbuck
Hipopotamus amphibius               Hippo
Tragelaphus strepsiceros            Kudu
Hipotragus niger                    Sable
Tragelapus angasii                  Nyala
Taurotragus oryx                    Eland
Alcelaphus lichtensteini           Hartbeest
Tragelaphus scriptus               Busbuck
Redunca arundinum                 Reedbuck
Phacochoerus aethiopicus           Warthop
Potamochoerus a porcus             Bushpig
Silvicapra grimmia                Grey duiker
Nesotragus moschatus mitis           Suni
Cephalophus natalensis            Red duiker
Panthera leo                         Lion
Panthera pardus                    Leopard
Acinonyx jubatus                   Cheetah
Canis spp.                          Jackal
Viverra civeta                      Civet
Girafa camelopardis                 Giraffe
Source: Hatton & Munguambe, 1998
The Gorongosa Mountain-Rift Valley-Marromeu Complex in the East and the Afromontane
habitats (including Chimanimani Mountains) are known "Biological Hotspots" of Central
Mozambique.
The Chimanimani Afromontane areas are well known for their high levels of biodiversity
and endemism. Nearly 1000 vascular plant species have been recorded, of which 45 are
endemic including five Aloe species, three species of Erica and two species of Protea.
Endemic plant species recorded for the Chimanimani Massif are presented in Table 9.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        35



CABO
DELG-ADO  -
NIASSA        N_
me~01       a.xo P.noe
)  Gllt Re ese-e                             Reserve
._a* , ., 7SA MP UL.                   anane
K  ; _    A                  Marromeu Rrserve                ,~~~ese-
Re~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~GI Reserve3-w  
rsatra FDe;;o   t    S neneForet Reerre Fo            se 
8                     i { Bazetut~~~~~o rs ReoalPre"
Ztgnawe Na *cnal Ptr       I  BazarWONadwlIPark
INHAIaANE        PomeMfio  /
F anigue   p6 nark
>~~9i  a;| GAZA    i                            13g1  ~~~Resre-*
.   T     m         v   }             y                            y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ yatlonai Pbrwv
t °   /  \.= e n e  ForitRerierve                 Cm         ri v.-fece -e
1  L2eF       e~s. e#rve                               As  F0,0SI Rewsevo
MoutO                    ,                              111 Ra-hway
MaPrc<ulo Reserv;e                    °          , 
l | ~~Figure 16. Conservation areas/Rail-way lines|



Environmental Audit and- Management Plan for the, Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 9. Endemic plant species according to family recorded for the Chimanimani
Mountains.
Family               Species            Family                Species
ASTERACEAE           Anisopappus        FABACEAE              Aeschynomene aphylla
paucidentatus
Erlangea westii                         Crotalaria phylicoides
Helichrysum                             Crotalaria sp.
buchananfi
H. maestum        LABIATAE              Hemizygia critrephes
H. rhodellum                            H. flabellifolia
Humea africana                          Plectranthus caudatus
Vemonia gracilipes  LILIACEAE          Aloe munchii
A. hazeliana
ASCLEPIADACEAE    Pachycarpus                                A.howmanfi
graminifolius
Raphionacme sp.                        A. plowsii
BALSAMINACEAE        Impatiensis salpinx                     A. wildii
CARYOPHYLLACEAE  Dianthus               LOBELIACEAE          Lobelia cobaltiga
chimanimaniensis
ERICACEAE            Erica lanceolifera    MELASTOMATACEAE  Pseudosbeckia
svqnnertonhi
E. pleiotricha    POLYGALACEAE          Polygala rehmannii
E. wildii         PROTEACEAE            Protea crinita
ERIOCAULACEAE        Mesanthemum                             P. enervis
africenum
EUPHORBIACEAE        Antidesma          RUBIACEAE            Oldenlendia canum
vogelianum
Clutia sp.        SANTALACEAE           Thesium dolichomeres
Phyllanthus sp.                         T. chimanimaniensis
VELLOZIACEAE          Vellozia argentea    UMBELLIFERAE       Centella obtringularis
Crotalaria sp.
Source: Hatton & Munguambe, 1998
2.2.7. Socio-Economic Status
Beira is the capital of Sofala Province and the second largest town in Mozambique. This
town accommodates the Port of Beira, which is of crucial importance in handling and
transportation of goods along the Beira Corridor.
The current population of Beira city range from 300 300 - 455 000 (CNP, 1992). The
density per square kilometer was estimated at 15 individuals. The current population of
Sofala Province and its distribution is presented in table 10.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                              36



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Prject
Table 10. The Population of Sofala Province
Population of Sofala Province                     Number
Total Population                                       1 500 000
Urban                                                    34%
Rural                                                    66%
Economically active                                     55,7%
Unemployement rate                                       6.1%
Populations of the three Provinces crossed by the Beira Corridor were estimated at 1 500
000 for Sofala Province, 975 000 for Manica Province and 1 149 for Tete Province (INE,
1997).
Employment opportunities in Beira and the Corridor are scarce. Those that exist are
seasonal and temporary.
Two population groups dominate the area, namely: the Ndau, from Beira to the South and
also northwards into the Manica Province. This group is part of the Shona Tribe.
The Sena, from Beira to the North. Neither of the above population groups dominate in the
Beira area. They coexist and interact socially.
The economy of Sofala Province is characterised by a subsistence sector, with extremely
low levels of productivity and dependent on climatic factors. A weak industrial sector, with
poor internal economic integration and relations, a relatively large component of services
to neighbouring countries, notably in the use of migrant labour in ports and railways.
The main economic activities of the local inhabitants presently located within the Beira
Corridor are: household/subsistence agriculture, charcoal production, wood collection and
selling, fishing, informal commerce and hunting.
Subsistence farming is the mainstay of about 600 000 families. Producti6n of surplus is
low, linked with poor availability of infrastructure for delivery of produce. The most
important agricultural products for the farmers are maize, rice, sunflower, sorghum and
cashew, which they both consume and sell. Peasant and commercial livestock production
is relatively important in Sofala. It includes cattle, pigs and other smaller species.
Tourism is poorly developed in Sofala. Hotel capacity is currently about 1 700 beds in
various establishments of different grades. The poor state of repair of infrastructure and
the scarcity of properly trained staff are the main constraints faced by this sector.
The reopening of the Gorongosa National Park and several Game reserves, and the
rehabilitation of their accommodation facilities, represent a major opportunity for investors.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          37



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port 'Restructunng Project
2.3. NACALA PORT AND CORRIDOR
INTRODUCTION
Nacala is a coastal city located on a peninsula. The city is delimited to the west by the
Indian Ocean and to the east by the Fernao Veloso Bay. To the west and north of the city
the slopes are gentle while to the east, slopes are more abrupt with marked cliffs (e.g.
Ribeira Maiaia). The most densely populated areas are located in the eastern part of the
peninsula.
Trade associated with the railway-port complex gave origin to the recent development of
this city. The port can be considered one of the best natural ports in East Africa. It is the
third most important port in Mozambique and along with the Nacala Corridor constitutes a
system of provincial, national and international importance.
The port of Nacala is situated at the southern end of the Bengo Bay; a large sheltered bay
with an entrance 800m wide and 60m deep.
Nacala has a natural deep-water harbour, sheltered from the ocean, where dredging is not
required. The port allows ship berthing without size limitation. Nacala handles a great deal
of the foreign trade from and to Malawi
The port provides the gateway for domestic traffic as well as the Nacala Corridor
connecting to Malawi by a railway and roads extending a distance of 615 km.
T hre ad;iway line covers a distance of 900 Km, and can be divided into the. following
sections:
Nacala- Lichinga - 800 Km
Luamba - Entrelagos - 78 Km (International connection)
Ramal do Lumbo - Rio Monapo - 42 Km
2.3.1. Climate
Nacala Port
The region has a tropical climate with two distinct seasons. The --nv -e-s.- --,:ends
from October to March with mean monthly precipitation ranging flom 92 3 - - ^ :,tober
to 217 mm in March. The dry season extends from April to Septeniber we,-.-ar .. nthly
precipitation ranging from 0.9 mm in April to 42.74 mm in Septembsr. Ve;-^  ..nifall
is 800mm.
The climate of Nacala City is marked by very high relative humidity ^  0
Mean annual monthly temperature is 260C with a peak in December '320C) ancd  :w in
July (1 8°C).
Impacto, Projeclos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         38



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Winds are generally not strong although the East coast is affected by cyclones. NE winds
dominate from October to February and SE winds from March to September.
Nacala Corridor
In general, the climate of the areas crossed by the corridor is tropical and humid. Two
seasons are alternated with different pluvial regimes but without great temperature
variation. The rainy season occurs between the months of November and March, with
maximum values in the last two months of the year. Winters are dry and, from April to
October, the monthly average values never exceed 50 mm.
The areas between Nacala and Monapo registered mean values of 800 mm/year while the
remaining areas present higher medium values, between 1000 and 1400 mm/year.
In the high zones south of Malema, rainfall exceeds 1800 mm/year. The annual mean
temperatures are also lower (between 18 and 20 degrees) while the annual mean
temperatures for the remaining areas is 220C.
This whole area, mainly along the coast, is influenced Monsoons. Some cyclones -
originating in the Indian Ocean - reach the coastal zones of Nacala, Mossuril and Monapo
and lose force as they move to the interior.
2.3.2. Coastal Processes and Dynamics
Nacala Port
The northern coastal sector, which runs almost N-S between the Tanzanian border and
the town of Mossuril is highly indented, and protected by numerous offshore islands,
associated with well-developed coral formations. Nacala is the biggest bay along this
stretch of coast.
In fact, the bay of Nacala is composed of small sub-bays, Fernao Veloso (at the entrance
of the bay), Namelala, Muananculo and Bengo. The relative position of the bays of
Nacala and Fern5o Veloso in relation to the Ocean reduces the influence of waves at the
port (see figure 17).
The coastline is characterised by a sequence of rock dominated shores and sand
beaches. The continental shelf is very narrow and deeply scarred with submarine
canyons. The sea plunges to over 2500m in depth within 30 km of the shore. Behind the
shoreline the land rises to over 500 m within 20 to 30 km.
The sea mostly determines the patterns of currents and waves. The small streams and
drainage lines have little influence on the coastal dynamics of the bay. Equally, the
configuration of the peninsula and its location offers shelter from winds and the relatively
frequent occurrence of hurricanes along the northern coast of Mozambique.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        39



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2.3.3. GEOLOGY/GEOMORPHOLOGY
Nacala Port
The Nacala coastline is characterised by a sequence of rock dominated shores and sand
beaches. Tertiary basalts occur along the shoreline, which is deeply indented. Coral
limestone rock headlands form rugged cliffs often fringed with extensive coral reefs.
Two different geological formations can be identified in Nacala peninsula. To the East the
peninsula is made up primarily of sedimentary materials including coral limestone and
sanstone overlain by sandy soils. To the West of Nacala bay granite dominates the
landform. The South margin of Nacala Bay is constituted by Recent Quaternary unstable
formations. The recent coverage of the beaches is sandy but going South there are small
lagoons (locally called "languas") with clay-mud bottoms. Sand dune fields of different
periods are found throughout the peninsula.
Nacala Bay communicates with the ocean through a thin channel of considerable depth.
The Fernao Veloso Peninsula delimits the East margin of the bay.
The design of the bay is rather asymmetric. The East margin contour is almost non-
existent and the coastal configuration is straight, almost without relief. The eastern margin
has accentuated contours, delimiting secondary bays separated by greatly elongated
pontas. These bays communicate with numerous "languas" and wetlands inundated by
the tides.
The Margin s!or es are equally different. The eastern margin has a rather accentuated.and
brusque slope. The western margin has a gentle and progressive slope.
Those slopes support different kinds of superficial drainage. From the continental and
South side the drainage is extensive but without the presence of permanent watercourses.
Rather, this is achieved by numerous water lines that have developed,,in a dendritic
fashion.
At the eastern margin the shallow water drainage to the bay is by means of non-
ramificated water lines, almost parallel, reflecting the torrential rainfall patterns.
The bottom of the bay has an asymmetric bathymetry rather like the surface
geomorphology.
Nacala Corridor
From the ocean to the interior zone the corridor crosses the following geological features:
- Nacala peninsula sedimentary formations from the Tertiary and Cretaceous
(sandstone is dominant).
- A platform of metamorphic rocks denominated "Sistema do Niassa" with dominance of
the migmatitic-gneiss complex and intrusion of quartzits and anfibolites
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         40



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Podrt Restructuding Project
Generally the existence of environmental problems is unlikely, except for places like
Nacala entrance where the slope is very accentuated (10%) and in specific areas of
Niassa province and between Ribaue and Entre-Lagos.
2.3.4. SOILS
Nacala Port
The entire interior region is a zone of red lateritic and perstalic soils. The soils have low
fertility and are susceptible to erosion.
Close to Nacala Peninsula litosoils can be found.
Coastal dunes are characterised by sandy soils whilst other nearby habitats have sialitic
and forsialitic soils.
The erosion situation in Nacala City is very serious, affecting not only urban development
but also the baixa (Downtown) where the port is located (see figure 17). The soils of
Nacala are mainly sandy soils from the quaternary. The sands are yellow, loose and
susceptible to erosion in the rainy season. In areas where the sandy layer has been
removed by the rain, sandstone formations protrude. In March 1985, heavy rains for 48
hours caused siltation downtown at the port area (through the deposition of sands from
surrounding slopes), destruction of paved roads and extensive ravine formation.
The main causes of erosion in Nacala are:
- Lack of control of the City development plan
- Occupation and construction in sloping areas
- Destruction of the vegetation cover
-  Land use from construction    -
- Agriculture in urban areas
- Opening of trails and roads without drainage systems
- Lack of drainage channels along the roads
- Obsolete drainage system
Nacala CorTidor
Close to Nacala peninsula, sbils are sandy with low fertility. At higher altitudes there are
patches of grey heavy soils (poor drainage capacity). In accentuated slope zones these
soils are more susceptible to erosion and landslide.
Along the corridors formed by the Lurio and Monapo Rivers, red clay-sandy soils
dominate. Close to Ribaue the soils are again poor, sandy and with low fertility.
Between Ribaue and Entre-Lagos,red, deep clay soils with low fertility are dominant.
These soils have high erosion and landslide potential.
In the section of railway crossing the Niassa province, the soils are the same as Ribaue -
Entre-lagos. 
imp acto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 19,99                         41



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pod Restructuring Project
2.3.5 HYDROLOGY (GROUND AND SURFACE WATER)
Nacala Port
Nacala bay is wide and considered one of the best natural harbours in the world. Topo-
hydrographic conditions are optimum with naturally deep channels and a wide area with
depths greater than 20m. Furthermore there are no sandbars in the harbour.
Consequently, access and manoeuvrability conditions are guaranteed for all kinds of
ships. In addition, there exists great potential for expansion.
The two geological formations described above have very different drainage
characteristics. A relatively dense network of short channels with steep gradients
dominates the surface drainage pattern in the granite area. The sedimentary areas have
fewer surface water channels and a sub-surface drainage through the porous limestone.
The porous nature of the underlying rocks will influence the availability of ground water.
Limestone often serves as a good reservoir for surface water that infiltrates through the
sandy soils.
Nacala Corridor
Nacala corridor crosses three river basins: Monapo River (close to the coast where the
line runs parallel to the river), Lurio and Rovuma Rivers (in Niassa Province).
In the Monapo River basin the line crosses, the Monapo and Mecuburi Rivers. In the Lurio
River basin the line crosses the Lurio, Mepuiqui, Lalaua, Neoce and Mitucue Rivers
(        z. vf  ri). In the Rcvuma basin the linr _rc.ses tho Arn3rarmba, Lt-+hrmuna and
Luangira Rivers.
2.3.6. FAUNA AND FLORA
Nacala Port
Vegetation
Human occupation has disturbed the city and the port. Besides the grass cover only some
trees e.g. the Baobab (Adansonia digitata) can still be found. In the less disturbed areas
of the bay there are patches of coastal vegetation.
This vegetation pattern corresponds to the mapping unit 33 of Wild and Barbosa and it will
be described in detail in the annexes of this report (see figure 18)
Small communities of mangroves still occur in some places close to the port. Well-
developed creek mangrove formations occur in Nacala Bay. In creek mangoves
Rhizophora mucronata and Sonneratia alba line the canals behind which Bruguiera
gymnorrhiza and Xylocarpus granatum may dominate. In drier sites thickets of Ceriops
tagal (often stunted) often form broad belts. These may give way to. a dwarf Avicennia
marna zone.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         42



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port RestnJctunng Project
More than 50% of the former mangrove area in the region has been cleared for the
construction of salinas and fishpond development. In Nacala Bay, almost all the former
areas at the head of the bay have been cleared to make way for expansion of salt pans.
A detailed description of the main vegetation types is provided in annex 1.
Fauna
Marine turtles
Some of the beaches along Nacala peninsula serve as a major nesting areas for 5
species of marine turtles: Green turtle (Chelonia mydas), Hawksbill (Eretmochelys
imbricata), Olive ridley (lepidochelys oluvacea), Loggerhead (Caretta caretta) and Leather
back (Dermochelys coriacea).
Other Marine fauna
Invertebrate collection (for local consumption or shells for sale) happens throughout the
peninsula. The main species collected by local communities are Holoturia scabra (sea
cucumber), Echinometra mathai (sea urchin), trydacna squamosa (Giant clam), Charonia
tritonis (Triton trumpet) Panulirus spp (spiny lobster), etc.
Fisheries
The primary forms of fishing gear used in the area are beach seines, gill nets, underwater
spear guns and individual fishing lines. The main species caught in the area include Shad,
Kingfish, 'Xareu', Groupers, Needlefish, Bigeye tuna, Parrotfish and Stonefish.
Tha h-.management of fishery resources is peoncr. This is directly related to, t-hpa4estrUction
of habitats that serve as a source of food, spawning grounds and nursery areas for fish
stocks. Some fishing gears are also causing heavy damage to seagrass beds and coral
reefs.
Seagrass beds
Seagrass beds are a major habitat of great value to fish, dugongs and sea turtles. They
occur in almost all coastal areas around Nacala Peninsula.
Coral Reefs
Coral reefs are a major feature along the coastline of Nacala Peninsula. In certain
locations barrier reefs allow the formation of extensive fine white sandy beaches as it
happens in the seaward beaches of Relanzapu. Some reefs can be found inside the bay
as shown in figure 19.
Living coral reefs play a major role in the formation of coastal landforms and associated
ecosystems. These reefs are extremely important in protecting the sandy embankments
from erosion.
/mpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           43



Environmental-Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuing Project
Nacala Corridor
Vegetation
For most of its extension, the Nacala corridor crosses vegetation areas classified as
miombo woodland. Brachystegia spp and Julbemardia globiflora are the dominant tree
species of this vegetation type. (See figure 19).
Close to the coast the vegetation pattern changes to a mosaic that includes dune forests,
grasslands and woodlands.
Nacala corridor crosses the following vegetation mapping units (Wild & Barbosa, 1968)
which will be described in detail in annex 1:
33- Adansonia digitata, Pteleopsisrtoundifolisa, Brachystegia sp.
27- Brachystegia spiciformis, Adansonia digitata, Sterculia murex
23- Brachystegia spiciformis, Julbemardia globifora
29 - Brachystegia boehmii, B. allenii
31 - B. boehimmi, Adansonia
28 - B. utilis, B. spp
18- B. spiciformis
? Lago Niassa- Adansonia digitata
The line crosses areas with forestry resources of great economic and biological
importance. Table 11 below shows the main species of commercial woods.
Table 11. Commercial wood species occurring along the Nacala Corridor
Common name            Cientific name          Local name
Tule/mecuco             Chlorophora excelsa 
Pau-rosa               Berchemia zeyheri        ?
Pau-preto              Dalbergia melanoxylon    Moc6, Tnepive
Ebano                  Diospyros mespiIiformis   Muculo, Ntoma
Muoma                  Diospyros kirkii         Murriparipa
Pau-ferro              Swartzia madascariensis  Nakwata
Mecrusse               Androstachys johnsonii   Crusse, mecrusse
Chanfuta               Afzelia quanzensis       ?
Umbila                 Pterocarpus angolensis   ?
Umbaua                 Khaya nyasica            Mbawa
Fauna
The occurrence and distribution of wildlife varies according to the degree of human
interference. Recent data are not available. However the existence of suitable habitats
and the results from meetings with local communities indicate that the following species
can occur in the area:
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          44



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port'Restructurfng Project
Table 12. Mammal species of probable occurrence in Nacala Corridor
English Name                        Cientific Name
Reedbuck                            Redunca arundinum
Sable antelope                      Hippotragus niger
Baboon                              Papio ursinus
Velvet monkey                       Cercopithecus aethiopus
Wild pork                           Potamocherus porcus
Hyeana                              Crocuta crocuta
Pygmy rat                           Mus minutoides
Tree mouse                          Thalomys paedulcus
Crocodile                           Crocodilus niloticus
Provincial Directorate of Forestry and VVildlife, 1997
Species with a special protection status
The corridor does not cross Natural reserves, National Parks or zones with a special
protection status. However, it crosses several forestry reserves (see figure 16) created in
1950, whose legal value should be updated:
-  Mecuburi forest reserve(1954 km2)
-  Baixo Pinda forest reserve (196 Km2)
- Matibane forest reserve (42 Km2)
-  ,'M^.pzIw'.: fc.-est reserve (51 km2)-
- Ribaue forest reserve (52 km2)
There is only one region classified as an area with high biological value and level of
endemism - the Great lnselberg Archipelago around the Namuli mountains.-
This series of habitats occurs South of the Lurio River occupying a rectangular area of
approximately 500km by 160km lying in a SW to NE direction (approximately between 140
to 17°S; 35°40'E to 380 E thence NE-wards to 39040'E).
This Inselberg Archipelago presents a truly remarkable landscape of tall granite core
remnants in a savanna landscape. The Inselberg Region has high scenic value _s well as
high  biological value  characterised  by  unique flora and  fauna  (ende-._s and
biogeographical outliers) contained in the isolated rainforest, patches of .i- h form
aprons around the flanks and base of the inselbergs. Many of the areas  _.-enknown
biologically and it is highly likely undescribed species remain to be discove- i.
The outstanding universal Value of the Great lnselberg Archipelago thus ,-- .^-   ses:
- Spectacular and unique Inselberg scenery;
-  High biological diversity and levels of endemism  (e.g. a white belie.-`  squirrel
confined to Namuli Mt.)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            45



Y                :     -                   .0    -
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V                                                U
1 8  Ej Brac'iysrooia fIorl.tunda- Juile,mard,a globiflora  33 f.     Adansoma, PreIeo3s's. 3Ba: -  
29 8®jrachysteg.a E3or.r,'J Bac'ws'e9'a alien      *      14 | Guboulila ScIi.Ie.'e'
Oi Lagcu ,vassaca snl                                   E:   Mangal
.0, o.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ofo
28   M   Brac/rwsfegla dr'hS BracrayJsrerra spo           53  @,. Adansona -. Acact a n'ere:C :-,
40O&     Pterocarpus angolensis -Pericopsis -ACacia        21        Brachystegia Spiecaormis
31   M  Bracnystegia boehmn- Adansonma                      6rI3    DRY DECIDUOUS (LowfanC)
I BrI Q Adansonia-Cordyla or SomDax
2 7H   Brachystegia Spiciformis - Sterculia (Nampula)
39 r rt Parinari curatellifonia
23jta-] Brachystegia Spicilormis- Julbemardia globiflora
IN t 1 *                                                 1  EX  MOIST EVERGREEN (at low and medium altitudes)
44F3T:.  Hyphaene. Phoenix or Borassus
>O. oJ64 @3Pa,pyrus (sudd)
0      4=  VO                                        I  ~&I
Krn                             24      Brachyslegia Spicilormis (Za-Dez'a Lowlazc type)
Figure 18. Vegetation units (Wild & Barbosa, 1968) crossed by the Nacala
Corridor



Principais fecifes ce corals
Bay
.       1,2                                          X Nc,(,1.1f
A N C  CUM 1'l)l 1           ~~~~~ ~~            ~     ~~tSSlIulo   
Figre 9.Loctin of the cor. l reefs in Nacala
Figure 1 9. Location of the cork I1 reefs in Nacala



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuing Project
The area between Nacala and Entre-Lagos is proposed in the National Strategy and
Action Plan for the Conservation of Biodiversity to be an area of special attention.
2.3.7. SOCIO-ECONOMIC STATUS
Nacala Port
Besides Nampula, the capital of the province, Nacala is the only important urban center in
an area of the country where the demographic densities are the highest of Mozambique.
The creation and development of the city are historically quite recent and they are deeply
tied up to the creation of the port, dated of the decade of 50.
The regional importance of the city is relevant, and its industrial and port infrastructures
act as a powerful pole of attraction and additional fixation of population.
Thus, in the last decades a great number of peasants from the neighbouring areas settled
down in an unplanned way on the oriental hill that surrounds the port area. The population
of the district grew by about 92% in the decade of 70-80. As a consequence, erosion
seriously affected the city that is currently threatened by landslides.
According to the general population census carried out in 1980 Nacala City had 85 211
inhabitants. (See table 13).
Table 13. Distribution of the Population by neighbourhood
Neighbourhood              Inhabitants  % Men
Maiaia                     3832         59.5
Bloco 1                     1048        58.4
Triangulo                   13023       49.5
Mocone                      14693       54.8
Tielela                     5476        57.4
Matola                     3493         54.8
Muanona                    6915         48.5
Murrupelane                4709         49.0
Ontupaia                    5841        49.3
Mupete                      3638        47.9
Ribaue                      5217        52.4
Nauaia                      3375        49.3
Mathapue                    3842        49.9
Naherenque                  3996        46.4
Muzuane                     2244        48.6
Quissimanju and Chivato     3859        48.6
Total                       85211       51.5
Source: Plano director de Nacala, 1983
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        46



Environmental Audit and-ManagementPlan for-the Rail and Port Restructunng Project,
The baixa (Ponta Maiaia) is the original root of the occupation process and is directly
related to the implementation and construction of the Port and Corridor. This part of the
city has paved roads, sewage systems, rainwater drainage systems and most major
infrastructures and services. This contrasts markedly with the high zone (no paved roads,
low level of services and infrastructures).
Neighbourhoods in the Triangle and Tielelea bairros are susceptible to erosion. These
neighbourhoods reflect unplanned occupation with minimum infrastructures.
A net of pluvial sewers only exists in the urbanised area of the city.
Only 1400 houses are built from conventional and permanent materials. The city has a
Hospital and three health care units (one of which located at CFM, Nacala). 16 primary
schools exist and only one secondary school.
The population Sex ratio is clearly male-biased being higher than Nampula province and
Nacala district simply because of the attraction that the port and railway service presents
to the labour force. About 35.8% of the active population are working in Nacala Port and
Corridor.
Table 14. Preliminary data obtained for the distribution of the workforce of Nacala City
Sector                                       Number of workers
Ports and railways                                 4 180
State companies                                      717
Cement Plant                                         370
Tourism                                              170
Trade and Craft                                      575
Administration and services                         1 307
Industry                                           4 350
Total                                              11 669
Source: Plano Director de Nacala. 1983
Artisanal fisheries and agriculture form the main activities in rural areas outside the city.
However, poorly planned and managed development has lead to destruction of sensitive
habitats such as mangroves. Hundreds of hectares of this community are being destroyed
for the construction of salinas.
There is also strong evidence that the inshore fisheries resources of the Nacala coastal
area are subjected to very intensive harvesting pressure due to an increase in the number
of fishermen in recent years, lack of control over fishing practices, and lack of enforcement
of the existing regulations.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           47



Environmental Audit.and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuning Project
Nacala Corridor
Nacala corridor crosses (EW direction) the fcllowing districts:
Nampula Province
- Nacala
- Monapo
- Meconta
- Nampula
- Ribaue
- Malema
Zambezia Province
- Gurue
Niassa Province
- Cuamba
- Mecanhelas
- Mandimba
- Lichinga
This region is densely populated with the exception of Niassa Province. Nampuia province
has the highest population density in the country. The line crosses Cotton and sisal
plantations. This line supplies mineral projects and several industries.
2.4. QUELIMANE PORT
INTRODUCTION
Quelimane Port is situated in Quelimane City, capital of Zambezia Province (see figure 20
and 21). (180 50' and 18 55', 360 50' and 360 55'), on the northern embankment of the
river dos Bons Sinais
2.4.1. CLIMATE
Quelimane has a wet tropical climate, with a mean annual rainfall of approximately
1400mm. The rainy season falls from December to April. Beira and Quelimane have the
highest rainfall values per year in Mozambique (1400-1800 mm). Monthly variation in
rainfall is broad with a low of 14.1 mm [in October] and a high of 278.4 mm [in March].
This seasonality in rainfall (75% of the rainfall in 5 months) results in erosion and storm
water runoff.
Average monthly temperatures vary between 20.70 C and 27.40 C. The mean annual
temperature is 24.80 C. The mean temperature in the summer wet season is
approximately 27°C. The mean annual relative humidity is 77.2% with small differences
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          48



4,
s<~~UR DE  
*  .     .} A~ALTO,1 
0   9,      .  jrSa,)MOLOCUE        
s +         r     NIAMARR5It       -              GILE
MIANGE         UE.
'S          t:       ~      ~~ /    "E      -' _.    
LUGELA
X~~~~~I *J~* , .--.,S                  -'' >'
A                \       MOCUBA
mORRUMB^L A                       MAG.  N/                        <
A~.
COSTA
L±J/ ~~~~~NICOA-0Di5LA-\
MOPEl.A
LEGEND
CHI E
/0    2                        j t @ t + FRONTIER
- -. - PROVINCE BOUNDARY
0DTRICT BOUNDARY
_-R.----RIVER
0    100
Km
Figure 20. Zamb6zia Province



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- RAILWAY- 
.cc)u                              A X
0   RIVER
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> Ni'wte ~ ~ ~ ~ Nngci
\    aZ/    ~~LEGEND
>~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITAL
.                               o~~~~~~~~~~ DISTRIC T CAPI TAL
_  MAIN ROAD
,,,  RAILWAY
,,RfVER
Km
L~~~~ ," _)                           .                   _j



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
between the wet season and dry season. These key climatic features are summarised in
table 15 and figure 22.
Table 15. Key climatic features for Quelimane City
Month         Temperature (OC)       Humidity        Rainfall
(%, 30 years, (mm, 30 years
average)       average)
Total  Max    Min
Mean  Mean   Mean
January           27.4    32.4   23.4            77.6          239.6
February          27.3    32.0   23.5            79.0          261.0
March             26.8    31.3   23.3            80.3          278.4
April             25.6    30.4   21.8            79.4          105.5
May               23.1    28.4   18.7            80.0           84.7
June              21.1    26.4   16.6            80.8           64.6
July              20.7    26.2   15.8            80.2            51.8
August            21.5    27.2   16.4            78.1            35.5
September         23.7    29.6   18.5            73.6            18.1
October           25.7    31.7   20.8            70.3            14.5
November          26.9    32.6   22.5            71.2           76.5
December          27.3    32.7   23.1            75.4          169.5
P.nnual mean      24.8    30.1 L  20.4           77.21-       1399.2
Mean annual temperature and rainfall for Quelimane City    >
30.                                       300
20.. |    l  l   H200
E
E
10                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100
-2      ~~0
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May  ITemperature
Month        + Rainfall!
Figure 22. Mean annual temperature and rainfall for Quelimane City
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            49



Environmental Audit, and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
The winds follow the alternating monsoon system with NE winds during the southem
summer and SW winds during the southern winter (figure 23).
Frequency distribution of wind direction
50
45
40                                              E 
35                                              O NE
30                                              D E
25                                             D3 SE
20
ow S
15 .-                                           s
10 .OW
5
0.
Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
Month
Figure 23. Frequency distribution of wind direction
2.4.2. COASTAL PROCESSES AND DYNAMICS/HYDROGRAPHY
The area is characterised by the interaction of the Mozambique current flowing South and
a coastal current flowing North. The Zambezi River is a substantial contributor to the onset
of these coastal currents (Saetre and Paula e Silva, 1979).
The continental shelf is very narrow and deeply scarred with submarine canyons.
In the immediate vicinity the following water masses can be identified:
Surface water: characterised by temperatures between 220 and 300C with salinity below
35.20/oo. This water is defined as low salinity tropical surface water, with low salinity
maintained by freshwater runoff from the coast.
Subtropical surface water: formed in the centre of the subtropical anticyclonic gyre where
it sinks to more than 500m. From here it spreads to form a sub-surface salinity maximum
throughout the entire gyre system (Paula e Silva, 1979). It is usually found at depths
between 150 and 250m.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                             50



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Antarctic intermnediate water this water mass is formed by mixing along the Antarctic polar
front of the cold and low-salinity surface water from the Antarctic, and warmer water of
higher salinity from North Africa. Results from a survey (IIP, 1979) indicate that the highest
salinities are found along the coast, South of Quelimane.
Table 17. Surface temperature and salinity recorded for Quelimane Coastal area
Surface Temperature Surface salinity
Sep 1977                   24.5                  35
Nov 1977                   27.5                  34
Feb-Mar 1978               27.5                  35
Apr-Jun 1978               27.5                  20
May-Jun 1983               26.5                  34
Source: Saetre &Paula e Silva, 1979
2.4.3. GEOLOGY/GEOMORPHOLOGY
Quelimane is located adjacent to the northern sector of the alluvial front of Zambeze Delta
(note the Delta fronts stretches some 250 km along the coast from the Chiniziua River
south of the Zambeze River to the Puade River mouth north of Quelimane).
Two main geological formations can be distinguished in the vicinty of Quelimane:
i) -Coasrtal d_n- formations (QD1) of recent origin and of varying width run parallel to-
the coast.
ii)   Alluvium deposits (QA1) of recent origin occur as a wide expanse associated with
the Zambeze Delta.
2.4.4. SOILS
In Quelimane District the following soil types can be identified:
. Clay soils of alluvial or fluvio-marine origin: grey in colour, deep and frequently
saturated. Poor drainage capacity.
* Sandy hydromorphic soils: very deep soils, brown in colour. Poor drainage capacity.
Sandy soils of fluvio marine and alluvial origin (coastal dune sandy soils): located in
areas with undulated relief. The soils are highly permeable. Organic matter
accumulates in three distinct layers: superficial (rich in non-decomposed organic
matter), transition layer (medium humus content) and sandy bottom layer without
humus.
The above-described soils are loose, non consolidated, and only fixed by their vegetation
cover. This condition results in increased erosion potential and deposition of sediments in
the riverbed, making dredging a permanent necessity.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         51



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
At the specific area of the port the following land systems can be identified (see
figure 24):
1. Beach ridge land system:
This system covers the major part of the area and is located both North and West of the
port. It comprises sediments of alternating sand/clay, clay/sand strata covered by thin
deposits of marine sands. The sands have been redistributed by the action of waves and
wind and shaped into elongated ridges -locally called 'murundas'. The murundas are
separated by depressions called 'baixas'.
2. Coastal plain land system
This region includes areas of mangrove vegetation and saline swamps. It constitutes a flat
to almost flat terrain, very poorly drained and almost completely flooded during the wet
season. It is formed by alluvial and marine deposits with a clay content of 60-80%. These
soils have very high salinity levels. This system can be found in areas surrounding the port
area (East and West limits of the port).
2.4.5. HYDROLOGY
Two land systems can be identified: the beach ridge land system and the coastal plain
system. In hydrological terms the difference between the two systems is that the first is
underlain by a layer of fresh water resting upon the deeper lying saline water, and in the
second the reserve of fresh water does nct exist and all ground water is saline.
Beach ridge land system (port area and North area surrounding the port)
Composed of two layers:
- A fresh water layer of limited thickness on top, mainly contained in the sandy ridges
and probably sandy clay to clay strata underneath. This fresh water layer thins out
towards the bordering depressions of the coastal plain land system on one side, and
the coast of the Indian Ocean on the other.
- The saline layer underlying the fresh water layer and continuing under both land
systems.
Water movement through the system is rapid and water-holding capacity of the sand
profile is low.
The coastal plain land system (East and West areas surrounding the port)
Low-lying areas are saline, under the influence of the tidal movements coming up rivers.
The ground water is highly saline. Small differences in the elevation of the terrain cause
differences in the extent of drainage of floodwater.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          52



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pod Restructuring Project
2.4.6. FAUNA/FLORA
Terrestrial fauna
Due to the urban characteristics of the area the occurrence of large indigenous mammals
is unlikely. Birds, small rodents and reptiles are the species most commonly found in the
area.
Coral reefs
Coral reefs do not occur in the area, as hydrological conditions are not favourable to their
development because of the high level of siltation.
Marine Fisheries
According to Brinca et al (1982), close to Quelimane Coast, at depths shallower than 25m
Thryssa vitrirostris and Pellona ditchela dominate the catches of pelagic fish with
approximately equal contribution. Between 25 and 45m the most abundant pelagic
species were Decapterus macrosoma and Leinognathus elongatus while at depths greater
than 45m Decapterus rusellii contributed most. Of the typical demersal fish the Goatfish
(Mullidae) and the croaker (Scinidae) were the most abundant. These data are
summarised in Table 18 below.
Table 18. Small pelagic and demersal fish at Quelimane
Small pelaaic fish               Demersal fish
Ariommidae                       Bothidae
Carangidae                       Cynoglossidae
Clupeidae                        Drepanidae
Chirocentridae                   Lutjianidae
Engraulidae                      Mullidae
Formionidae                      Nemipteridae
Gerreidae                        Polynemidae
Leiognathidae                    Pomadasydae
Scrombridae                      Priacanthidae
Scomberomoridae                  Psettodidae
Sphyraenidae                     Sciaenidae
Others                           Serranidae
Sillaginidae
Sparidae
Synodontidae
Theraponidae
Trichiuridae
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         53



0   0 0~~~~~~~~~~
LEGEND
Alluvial MarinQ PlQin         .                           QUehmane Town
Coastal plain                   Creek
1 ~~~~~~~~Land SystemCre
I_ _j_ =  Mangrove Swamps                                         Rver
E Beach Ridge Land System
0         5         )O
Figure 24. Land systems identified in the Quelimane Port area



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pori Restructuring Prject
Vegetation:
Due to urbanisation of the area the vegetation patterns are very disturbed. The major
parts of the area surrounding the port are urbanised.
The natural vegetation of the port area corresponds to vegetation on alluviums (mapping
unit 54) and mangroves (see figure 25). A detailed description of these vegetation types is
provided in annex 1.
Vegetation on alluviums
(Equivalent to Mapping Unit 54, Wild and Barbosa, 1968)
The largest extent of this vegetation type occupies the lower Zambeze River/Delta system.
In these alluvial areas the higher and better drained zones may have a sub-arid tree/shrub
savanna with low or medium height grass layer grasses (mainly the Paniceae) and form
good "sweet" pastures. The trees and shrubs are rather patchily distributed.
Mangroves
Mangroves are present in the eastern and western part of the Port (see figure 25).
Mangrove formations occurring in this area are more diverse and bigger in size compared
to those of the southern part of the country.
Sonneratia alba is the seaward pioneer adapted to sites that are flooded everyday.
Rhizophora mucronata, Avficennie marina and Sonneratia alba usually line the channels
behind which Bruguiera gymnorriza may occur. In drier sites, thickets of Ceriops tagal and
Lumnitzera racemosa can occur.
Mangroves are important in this estuarine system because they:
- stabilise mud banks by means of their root systems
-  provide a habitat for animals and plants (different species of crabs, polychaetes,
molluscs and others invertebrates, and smalI fish like Periophtalmus sp).
- trap silt by rootlets which form a dense web
Besides these functions, mangroves also play an important role in soil stabilisation,
reducing sedimentation rate and the necessity of dredging. Mangroves are important for
local people. They use mangrove tree trunks to make fishing canoes, as firewood and for
house building; in the area close the port signs of mangrove destruction can be seen.
These communities are very sensitive to environmental perturbations.
In saline soils, close to mangrove areas, grasses like Ischaemum, Setaria, Aristida,
Brachyarea and Sporobolus can be found. In clayey or clayey/sandy soils, Atriplex sp,
Arthrochnemum indicum, Salicomis herbacea, saueda monoica, Sesuvium portulacastrum
etc. occur.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         54



'hA"  //  i :  mll00Z{-'vil
Figure 25. Mangrove location in Quelimane






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2.4.7. SOCIO- ECONOMIC STATUS
Administrative division
The bairros and their districts are presented in Table 19.
Table 19. Bairros and district unrits of Quelimane City
Description of the bairro    Name of district unit
1. Urbanised area, 'cement 24 de Julho, Liberdade, 10 de Maio, Filipe S. Magaia,
city'  and   semi-urbanised Chivangano, Luta Continua, Mapiazua, saguar, Popular
areas
2. Not urbanised and semi- Torrone Novo, Janeiro, Coalane, Sangarivera, Murupe,
urbanised areas            Ivangalane
3. Semiurbanised and not Samuge, 25 de Setembro, 3 de Fevereiro, 10 de Maio,
urbanised areas            Coalane 1°, Acordos de Lusaka, Cololo, Sampene
4. Semiurbanised and not Brand,o,  17  de  Setembro,  Santagua,  Floresta,
urbanised areas            Micajune
5. Not urbanised areas     Namunho, Gagone, Bazar, Migano
Source: Estudo das 12 cidades, Consultec
Population data
Data from 1992 (CNP) indicated. that the total Dopulation of Quelimane City was 155 505
inhabitants. Population data are summarised in Table 20 and figure 25 below.
Table 20. Population growth for Quelimane City (1970 to 1992)
Year of survey      Population (rounded figures)-
1970 (RGP)          45 100
1980 (RGP revised)  60 200
1989 (MAE)          134 100
1991 (DNE)          146 200
1992 (CNP)          155500
Source: Estudo das 12 cidades, Consultec
Population Growth for Ouelimane City
200000
150000 
100000                _________
50000 .
1970 1980 1989 1991 1992
Year
Figure 25. Population growth for Quelimane City
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           55



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnucturing Project
The growth rate of the population for the period 1970-1980 was 2.9%, which is rather low
for an urban centre. The growth rates for the period 1980-1990 are much higher due to
the large influx of refugees.
According to the 1980 population census the mean family size was four. Population
density in Quelimane city is around 21 persons per hectare. The peasant small holders
represent 75% of the active population. The rest of the active populationare wage
workers.
According to information from CFM there are 144 persons working in Quelimane Port.
Areas suited for habitation are restricted to the 'murundas'. Due to the seasonal flooding
the coastal plains are generally unsuited for habitation.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           56



Environmental Audit and Management Plan. for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
3.1. MAPUTO PORT AND CORRIDOR
GENERAL FEATURES
The Maputo corridor system, operated by CFM-Sul (one of the three regional port and rail
operators of the state enterprise CFM) comprises the main Port of Maputo, the subsidiary
Port of Matola and three rail connections with the port. These rail connections are the
Ressano Garcia Line (88 km) linking Maputo with Republic of South Africa, the Goba Line
(68 km), connecting Maputo Port with Swaziland and the Limpopo Line (534 km), linking
Maputo Port with Zimbabwe.
The Maputo corridor commands a hinterland with the greatest traffic potential in the
country. It is the only port in southern Africa, which can handle significant incremental
traffic without major capital expansion.
It has the highest potential for traffic and associated income generation of any of the three
corridors. In addition, the Maputo port has served as the key cabotage and transhipment
port for many secondary ports along the Mozambican coast, both during the civil war
when the coastal areas tended to be more secure, and today.
Maputo Port
Based on equipment, working rhythm and dimension, the Port of Maputo is considered the
second largest port operating on the East African coast.
Located in the southern part of Mozambique (250 58' 05" S, 320 34' 02" E), it handles
cargo from all over the world serving Republic of South Africa, Swaziland, Zimbabwe,
Botswana, Zambia and Zaire and also receiving cargo from these countries for transport
to their different world markets.
The Port of Maputo consists of the Maputo Quay adjacent to the city and Matola Port
complex with a total length of 3740 metres, separated from Maputo by coastal wetlands. It
has specialised facilities to handle all types of cargo, such as:
- Citrus fruits (refrigerated)
- Bulk sugar
- Molasses
- Containers (and granite blocks)
- General cargo
- Cabotage/coastal shipping
- Coal
- Steel
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         57



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the. Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Each of the above has associated storage/transhipment areas and all are linked to the rail
network and extensive sidings at Maputo. In addition, there is a small dry dock (now
privately operated) and a fisheries harbour that also accommodates tugs, dredges,
buoyage vessels and other service vessels.
The approach to the harbour comprises the Northern Channel that is dredged and is 100
meters wide. This channel is available at any time of the year offering a minimum depth of
8 meters.
Table 21. Northern Channel length and width
Channels       Length (i)      Width (i)
Xefina          9.300            100
Polana          7.500            100
Matola          3.100            100
Facilities:
- Dry dock for repairs
- Fresh water available
- Bunker facilities
Maputo and Matola harbour facilities have the following capacity and average productivity:
Table 22. Harbour Capacity in metric ton/year (Maputo/Matola)
Facility             Maputo -        Matola
Handling Capacity     6.400.000        2.250.000
General Cargo         2.500.000            -
Cabotage               500.000
Fuel                                    450.000
Containers (TEU's)     28.000           100.000
Refrigerated materials   750.000
Steel                  900.000
Molasses               150.000
Sugar                  600.000
Coal Terminal         1.000.000         1.800.000
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        58



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Table 23. Average Productivity per Harbour type (Maputo/Matola) in Ton/Ship/day
(media)
Facility             1996   1997
Ton/Ship/day (AVG)    382    474
General Cargo        213    377
Cabotage             191     307
Containers (TEU's)    147    168
Refrigerateur        365    344
Steel                365    0
Cereals              402    375
Steel Cromium        843    795
Scrap                694    644
Sugar                0       0
General Cargo Berth
Bulk imports and exports are paper and pulp, maize, chrome, ferrochrome and other bulk
commodities. This facility has a quay length of 440 m with a special berth for large bulk
carriers. There are cranes available to handle imports and exports up to 4 Mm tons per
year. The facility is provided with warehouses totalling 53000 sq. metres. Certain bulk
exports such as lumpy grade chrome ore are discharged into stockpiles and from there
into standard 15 tonne skips on trailers from which ships are loaded by their own gear.
Coaling Appliance
Bulk exports: Coal, vermiculite, clay, phosphate, clinker and chrome fines.
Loading occurs directly from rail wagons to vessels co-ordinated througt a nominated
loading date procedure.
Sugar Terminal
Bulk: sugar
The daily intake capacity of the installation is 2.000 metric tonnes. Overhead cranes
perform the emptying of wagons.
Sugar is a seasonal product from April to December. During the rest of the year the quay
in front of the Sugar Terminal is idle and five cranes are used for handling general cargo.
Container Termninal
This Terminal has 300 metres of berthing space and is equipped with gantry cranes.
The container park area has a storage capacity of 1000 TEU's.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        59



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Steel Terninal
This facility is provided with two quays of 165 -175 metres, both are served with cranes.
Citrus Terrninal
- Citrus are placed in cartons.
- This facility comprises 270 metres of quay.
- Citrus are seasonal exports handled between April - December. During the off season,
the quay is used to handle general cargo.
- The terminal consists of a quayside frontage and two transit sheds, both served by a
refrigeration plant. There is a dedicated routine maintenance and battery charging
facility for forklift trucks.
Matola Port Complex
Bulk Coal Berth
The Matola Minerals Terminal was built in 1963, designed to handle iron ore. Following
the depletion of iron ore reserves in Swaziland, the terminal has been used to handle coal.
Oil Terminal
Facilities exist further upstream at Matola for handling coal and petroleum products as well
as ammonia. Matola has:
- a derelict oil jetty now used only for vegetable oil
- a temporary oil discharge facility at the terminal
- an oil jetty currently under refurbishment and reconstruction
A temporary oil terminal has been established at the coal terminal simply-by installing a
single pipeline along the existing quay. There are no loading arms, no slops receipt
facility, no containment and no oil pollution prevention or clean-up equipment. The pipeline
is not physically protected from damage by vehicles, ships or equipment, which must be a
high risk given that the quay is also used for loading large coal ships. The combination of
the quay being covered in coal dust and the temporary pipeline being used for the import
of white oils (petrol, kerosene, aviation spirit) it is a significant fire risk, yet there are no
fire-fighting facilities available.
Maputo Corridor
The Maputo Corridor comprises three rail connections with the port: the Ressano Garcia
Line (88 km) linking Maputo with Republic of South Africa, the Goba Line (68 km),
connecting Maputo Port with Swaziland and the Limpopo Line (534 km), linking Maputo
Port with Zimbabwe.
The materials carried on the rail comprise the full range of products handled at the port,
including foodstuffs, chemicals and fuels.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           60



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Other Railway workshops
- Wagon paint shop adjacent to the carriage and wagon repair facilities is not ventilated
sufficiently to accommodate heavy painting.
- Safety file record does not have entries since 1980's.
- Appropriate clothing for a worker dealing with hazard material does not exist
- Foundry working conditions are poor and probably represent a health risk.
3.2. BEIRA PORT AND CORRIDOR
GENERAL FEATURES
Operated by CFM-Centro. Comprises the Port of Beira, PipeLine System (oil
transportation to Zimbabwe) and two rail connections with the Port. The two rail
connections are the Machipanda Line (317 km) linking Beira with Zimbabwe and the Sena
Line (331 km), linking Beira with Malawi. The Sena Line has not operated since 1984. The
Sena rail link to Malawi is presently closed and rehabilitation works are planned. A
concrete sleeper factory has been installed, with output capacity of more than 20 000
units a month.
The Port is situated some 20 km from the sea. Ships calling at Beira Port have to pass a
dredged channel of considerable length through an extensive area with gullies and shoals
before being able to berth at the quays of Beira Port. Vessels with draughts up to 9 m,
corresponding to ship's sizes of about 20.000 DWT, are able to enter/leave the port during
high tides. It is not unusual that even small shins are unduly delayed by adverse tidal
conditions.
In the past decade, significant changes in shipping and cargo handling took place leading
to a general increase in ship's sizes. These changes have consequences for the layout,
operation and management of ports. The existing access channel to Beira Port, which
severely limits vessel's draughts, is no longer compatible with present shipping
requirements.
The Port of Beira has an annual capacity of over than 3 million tonnes with a total storage
capacity of 350 000 cubic metres.
Beira Port
The Port of Beira has 10 quays, which are located 17 km from the mouth of the Pungue
Estuary and cover a length of 1680 metres. The depth alongside these quays varies from
8 to 12,5 metres (table 24).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       62



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pori Restructuring Project
Table 24: Quay lengths and depths at Beira Port
Berthing                 Length (m)    Depth (in)
Multipurpose & Container handling Terminal  650           10,6
General Cargo Terminal                      755          9,0-9,5
Oil Terminal                                228            9,5
New Oil Terminal                            260           12,5
The Port of Beira has an annual capacity of over 3 million tonnes with a total storage of
350.000 cubic metres.
Multipurpose & Container handling Terrninal
The Container Terminal was commissioned in April 1992, after a complete rehabilitation
and can handle 100.000 to 150.000 TEU's per annum, via ship to shore Gantry cranes
with 40 tonne container handling capacity and 50 tons hook lifting capacity. There is one
Rail Transfer crane with similar capacity, serving a 200.000 sq. metre container yard.
General Cargo Terminal
Specialised terminals:
Pre-cooling Plant - with storage capacity of 60 000 cartons and 490 tonnes of meat.
Coal/ore terminal - with storage capacity of 150 000 cubic metres and a ship loading rate
of 700 tonnes per hour; liquid bulk storage for tallow (seven tanks with 2300 tonnes
oaVac.ity and molasses with-3- 400 tonnes capacity). This berth is equipped. with a
mechanical arm for loading fine chrome, chrome concentrates and also fine coal via one
outgoing transport belt with a capacity of 700 tons per hour, there are no cranes at this
berth.
Oil terminal located at berth 11 is a pipeline system that connects Zimbab4e with the Port
of Beira with a capacity of 400 tons per hour (pipes include: 12", 14", and 22" for
unloading; 6" and 8" for loading).
New Oil Terminal - The terminal is well provided with facilities for unloading tankers of 500
to 50 000 DWT and loading tankers for cabotage of 500 to 2 500 DWT. Four pipelines (12"
fuel, 16" diesel, 16" jet oil and 16" petrol) will initially connect the tanker jetty with the farm
2.3 km inland. The pipe way is designated to accommodate further pipes as and when the
need arise.
Hazardous cargo and explosives - Regulations require that all hazardous cargo and
explosives, whether for discharge or in transit, be declared before arrival of the vessel.
Any vessels carrying over 25 tons of explosives are not allowed to enter any port in
Mozambique. Table 25 presents the Harbour capacity of Beira Port.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        63



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 25. Harbour Capacity in metric tons/year
Facility                  Capacity
Handling Capacity        6 000 000
General Cargo            2 300 000
Fuel                     2 000 500
Containers (TEU's)        100 000
Minerals                 1 200 000
Table 26: Comparison of Ship traffic, in numbers, between 1994 to 1997
L   Period    |  1994        1995       1996       1997
Ship traffic    502       363        325        419 |
Table 27: Productivity per type of Harbour (in Ton/Ship/day (AVG)
Facility           1996          97
Ton/Ship/day (AVG)          4323        548,5
General Cargo               1162         899
Cabotage                    251          198
Fuel                       11556          0
Containers (TEU's)           146         98
Sugar                  _    889           0
Cereals/fertilisers         1834          0
Port Cargo Forecast (2000-2025)
According to (SATCC) the Beira Port is forecast at 2 976 400 tons in 2002, 3 398 900 tons
in 2007 and 4 874 900 in 2017. The average growth rate per annum of the total cargo is
forecast at 2.6% both in 2002 and 2007 and at 3.7% in 2017, less than 5.4% during 1978-
1996. Forecast Table: 2000-2025
Beira Corridor
Current railway traffic in CFM Centro operates on the railway line connecting the Port of
Beira to Machipanda on the border with Zimbabwe. The pipeline runs from Beira to
Zimbabwe for a distance of more than 300 km.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        64



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 28. Equipment existing along the Beira Corridor (1995/96)
Equipment                     1995       1996      1996/95 (%)
Locomotive Total number       16         17        6,3
Diesel line locomotives       11         11        -
Diesel shunting locomotives   5          6         20,0
Mess (Zorra)                  2          3         50,0
Carriage                      30         22       -27,6
Wagon                         1 150      1 035     - 10,0
3.3. NACALA PORT AND CORRIDOR
GENERAL FEATURES
The length of the 5 quays is 990 meters and the surrounding water is approximately 10
meters deep. Therefore, large vessels can berth without problems. The general layout of
the port facilities and quays are shown in figure 26. The port facilities and equipment are
as follows:
Existing Infrastructure and Equipment
General Cargo Terminal
Tabie 29. Capacity of the existing facilities in the general cargo termiinal
Facility             Capacity
Handling capacity   2 000 000 tons/year
Covered warehouses  8 units (total area 21 000 m')
Table 30. Port Mechanical equipment, in 1974
Equipment                               Units
Jib crane (10x5t, 1x10t, Wx2Mt)         12
Transfer crane (8x5t, 1x7.5t)           9
25 t Floating crane of 29x3t forklifts  1
Payloader                               1
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          65



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port'Restructuning Project
Container terminal
Table 31. Capacity and units of the existing facilities/equipment in the container terminal
Facility           Capacity/equipment  Units
Quay               327 m in length
15 m in depth
Handling capacity   30 000 TEUs/year
Stocking capacity    1 750 TEUs
Container yard     60 000 m'
Handling           Transfer crane        1
equipment
Jib crane            1
Forlift 42 tons      2
Forklift 32 tons     2
Palm Oil Loading Terminal
Table 32. Capacity of the existing facilities in the Palrr, oil loading terminal
Facility            Capacity (tons)
Oil storage capacity  18 000
Palm oil capacity   2 400
Port Equipment
Table 33. Units and capacity of the port equipment
Equipment                  Capacity (tons)  Units
Rail-mounted transfer crane                 1
Jib crane                                   1
Electric crane             5 to 20          11
Forklift                   25 to 45         5
Tractor for shunting       1.5 to 3.5       10
25to75           3
Tugs:
One tugboat available (1150 Hp)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            66



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Berthing:
Table 34. Water depth and length of the Nacala quay
Quay                    Water depth (m)  Length (m)
Container terminal      14,00             335,00
12,00            37,00
General Cargo Terminal  9,70              200,00
9,00             160,00
7.70            225,00
7,00            90,00
Services
Pre Arrival Information
Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA): initial ETA, if possible, should be sent 5 days prior to
arrival stating deepest arrival draft, last port of call and master's name. Further information
should be sent 72, 48, 24 and 12 hours prior to arrival giving only date and time of arrival
and any change in draft. ETA messages to be sent to agent only.
Documentation required:
't Crew !ists:
6 passenger lists;
2 supplies lists;
2 stores lists;
4 cargo manifest;
3 cargo plans;
5 port of call lists;
2 animal lists;
2 vacation lists;
1 health certificate;
1 clearance from the last Port;
These documents are to be completed and presented at the ETA and reported to local
authorities.
Pilotage:
Compulsory requests for Nacala Pilots via VWF-Radio on channel 16 and then change
over to 12 or 11.
An advanced notice of ETA and draught is required at least 24 hours before arrival
through agent, and then 4 hours before entering Fernao Veloso bay, via VHF. The normal
area of boarding is usually 2 miles 2370 from the Nacala Lighthouse except during strong
winds from NE to SE.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           67



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pott Restnrctunng Project
The pilot will embark inside the bay, but requires a permit from the Port authority. Usual
requirements for ladders are in force and pilot boarding requires the ladder to be about 3
to 4 ft above the waterline.
Anchorage:
After entering the narrow passage between Fernao Veloso and Sacamulo, in the outer
anchorage Bay of Muananculo and the inner Bay of Bengo, away from the middle fairway
to the harbour. Maximum size of vessel permissible to the outer anchorage area is about
130.000 Dwt and 18 m of draught. Outer anchorage is ideal and well sheltered for the
lightening operations of big Tankers/Bulk carriers till they are within the 18 meters draught
limit.
Baia de Bengo is very sheltered with excellent holding ground. The anchorage
recommended area are 3 cables SSW of Ponta Maiaia, in depths from 10 and 12 m, and
11 cables SW of Ponta Maiaia. Small, vessels may obtain anchorage, in depths from
5.5m to 7.5m, approximately 2 cables SE of the town of Nacala Velha (Lat. 140 33.0'S,
long. 400 38'E).
Main navigation aids:
Harbour Entrance: Fernao Veloso light (square tower surmounted by white framework
tower, 5m in height) is exhibited on Ponta Naerenque, red light.
Samaculo Light, (Square tower surmounted by white framework tower, 5m in high)
exhibited on Ponta samaculo, green light.
West side of harbour: Ponta Zuani Buoy (red) is exhibited WNW of Ponta Zuani and 2.5
nm south of Ponta Naerenque.
West side of harbour: Ponta Namuaxi light, green, (white pipe structure, 5ro in height) and
is exhibited E of Pedra das Gaivotas.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         68



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port'Restructuring Project
Table 35. Signaling at Nacala Port
No.                    POSITION      CHARACTERISTI
________ _______  ________  c                 RA N4GE
2266-COLOMOLUMO    14 24.6' S        Iso 4s W          14NM
40 48.2'E     Radar Refl.
2270-NACALA            14 24.3'S     FL(3)9S WRG       12NM
40 48.4'E    177G233W241 R29
5
2273-FERNAO VELOSO  14 27.3'S        Fl 3S G           6NM
40 40.5'E     Radar refl.
2276-SACAMULO          14 28.9'S     Fl 3S R           5NM
40 40.1'E    Radar refl.
2279-IMADE CHALI Re   14 29.8'S      QR                10NM
40 40.9'E
IMADE CHALI fr.        14 28.1'S
40 41.1.9'E   Iso 4s R          1ONM
2283-PONTA    ZUANI 14 29.5'S        3s R              5NM
BOUY                   40 40.1'E     Radar Refl.
2286-PONTA NAMUAX   14 31.3'S        Fl (2) 6 s G      5NM
40 39.4'E    Radar Refl
2287-BOUY  OF QUAY  14 32.1'S        Fl (2) 6 s R      5NM
NORTH Nr.1             40 40.1 'E    Radar Refl
2-BOUY   OF   CONT. 14 32.4'S        Fl (3) 9 s R      5NM
TERM. Nr.3            4Q 39.5'E      Porior Refl
2288-BOUY OF PONTA  14 32.3'S        Fl 5s R           5NM
MAIAIA Nr.2            40 39.5'E     Radar Refl
SPARBOUY               14 27.6'S     Green
ENTRANCE               40 40.2'E
SPARBOUY SW Cont.   14 33.1'S        Green
Terminal quay          40 39.1'E
Navigation
The entrance to the Port of Nacala presents no difficulty.
The light structures signaling navigation are not difficult to distinguish by day.
There are no nighttime restrictions. Berthing /unberthing might be possible 24 hours a day
on request.
Radio
Pilot radio station works with VHF equipment on channels 16 and 12 and HF equipment
on frequency 8284. All early reports, ETA, draught etc. through the Agent or Fax/VHF to
the Port.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        69



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pori Restructuring Project
Container handling facilities:
1119 ground slots and connection possibilities for 26 units. There is one 22 ton crane for
handling containers and a 25 ton rail mounted transtainer for loading and unloading
wagons and lorries.
For container handling there is one 42 ton front loader with flexible spreader (20-40 feet)
and two 32 ton front loaders. For long distance transport there are 3 tractors and 9 trailers
with different dimensions.
Also, stripping and stuffing operations are available in a 148Dm2 container freight station.
General handling facilities:
Nacala Port has a covered storage area of 21000 m2 and an open area of about 2500Dm2.
For ship operations there is one 20 ton, one 10 ton and seven 5 ton quay cranes. Forklifts
equipped with bale clamps are also available.
Table 36. Handling capacity at Nacala Port, in 1995
Handling facilities      Rated handling   Actual Dry Cargo  Utilization
Capacity (TEU)    Handled (ton)        (%)
Dry cargo Handling capacity       1 300 000          371 000           28.5
Container cargo handling            30 000            12 000           40.0
capacity
Bulk handling facilitipss
Petrochemicals at the east end of the General Cargo Terminal (north quay) with minimum
water depth of 9,7m and a quay length of 200 m. No slop discharge facilities. The
maximum receiving rate is about 250-300 tons/hour. There is 6" diameter pipeline for
vegetable oil with a maximum flow rate of approximately 150-200mt/hr. There are also
facilities for handling bulk cargoes such as grain, fertilisers, etc. at the north quay.
Cargo: containers, cotton, cashewnuts, wheat, fertiliser, timber, maize, coal, cement,
petrol, peanuts, vegetable oil, etc.
Stevedores
Particulars of discharge cargoes with the ETA message are required for arranging
gangas. Normally, the port works in three shifts, from 07hOO to 15hOO; from 15hOO to
23hOO, and from 23hOO to 07hOO hrs. After llhOO hours on Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays to 07hOO following day the work is charged as overtime, and must be
commissioned at least 48 hours in advance.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          70



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Surveyors:
Cargo Inspector available.
Watchmen:
Should be asked for through the Agent, either from the port or other sources. However an
immigration gangway watchman will always be put on board.
Table 37. Transport and traffic through Nacala Port
1983    1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Total              629       267.5    242.1   320.9   246.3  413.3   492.1   423.3   502.6
Cabotage            166.2    116.3    104.9  89.2    63.9    37.9   49.1    66.1    103.6
Embarking          65.2      66.6     49.4   30.3    30       19.3   20.6    29.1    52.9
Disembarking        101      49,7     55.5   58.9    33.9    18.6    28.5    37       50.7
Intemational       462.8    151.2    137.2  231.7   182.4  202.4   246.8   259.4  360.4
Embarking           162.3    0        4.5    51.9    43.3    66       39.8    108.9  87
Export Mozambique   37.3              0       51.5    36.6   31       37.4    92      70.7
Transit             125      0                0.4     6.7     35      2.4      16.9   16.3
Malawi              125                       0.4     5.5             2.4     16.9    16.3
Zambia                               I
Others                                                1.2    35
Disembarking       300.5    151.2    132.7   179.8   139.1   136.4  207       150.5  273.4
Import Mozambique   190      143.2    132.3   108.7   126.4   90.5    128.3   102.4  147.2
Transit             110.5    8        0.4    71.1    12.7   45.9    78.7    48.1    126.2
Malawi              110.5    _        0.4    71.1    10.4   42.4    78.7    43.4    126.2
Zambia                       0.7
Others                       7.3              ___|_73  2.3    3.5             4.7            l
Transfer                     _         _      _        _                               38.6
Containers         0         0        0       0       0       173     196.2   97.8
National           0         0        0                                        19
Embarking                                                                     6.2
Disembarking                                    .    .                         12.8
Intemational                                                       .           78.8   _
Embarking                                                                      34.6
Disembarking                                                                   44.2
General infonrnation:
Agents:
AMI Mozambique Sari, PO BOX 42, Nacala, Tel: 258 06 526068 Fax: 258 06 526229
Telex: 4/200. Contact: John Neary, Manager
Manica Freight Services (Mozambique) SARL, PO BOX 144, Nacala, Mozambique, Tel:
258 06 526 Fax: 258 06 526961 Telex: 4/286
Contact: A. C. Pinheiro, Manager
CARAVEL Mozambique LTD PO BOX 175 Nacala, Tel: 258 06 526517/526203,
Fax: 258 06 526516/204,
/mpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                     71



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Contact: Bernardo Maquia, Manager.
King & Sons Mozambique ltd. Tel: 258 06 526260, Fax: 258 06 526416.
Navique, PO BOX 51, Nacala, Mozambique Tel: 258 06 526379 Fax: 258 06 526147
Contact: Mr. Novela, Manager.
Anfrena, PO BOX: 161, Nacala, Mozambique. Tel: 258 06 526431
Contact: Mr. Chichango, Manager.
Authority (see Nacala port Organogram- Figure 27):
Mozambique Port and Railway
Port of Nacala, PO BOX 70, tel: 258 06 526852, Fax:258 06 526390.
Contact: A.F. Langa Junior, Port Director;
Mr. A.F. Candido, Harbour Master, Tel: 258 06 526854/7.
Mr.Eusebio Armendo, Chief of Container Terminal Dept., Tel: 258 06 526854/7-211.
Mr. Paulo Latifo Lilitao, Chief of General Cargo Dept. Tel: 258 06 526854/7-218
Mr. F. Beacuane, Chief of Port Maintenance, Tel. 258 06 526854/7.
Port Staff
Port Director
Harbour Master-Chief Maritime Services
Chief of Port Maintenance services.
Chief of Container Terminal Department
Chief of General Cargo Department
Chief of Finance Department
Chief of Human Resource
Chief of Railway coordination
Nacala Corridor
Nacala Port is connected to the Nampula - Cuamba - Lichinga Railway, and to Malawi
(since 1970), covering approximately 900 km of the national railway system.
CFM had, in 1974, a road network connected to the railways for the transport of cargo and
passengers from the production areas to the corridor and Port. This network covered more
than 2000 km of regular cargo and passenger lines, connecting Nacala with Niassa,
Nampula, Cabo Delgado, Tete and Zambezia.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        72






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port RestrUcturing Project
3.4. QUELIMANE PORT
GENERAL FEATURES
Quelimane Port is located along the left margin of the Bons Sinais River, close to the City
of Quelimane, capital of Zambezia Province. The bar of the river presents mobility
problems as the high rate of sedimentation limits navigability. The actual channels
demand permanent dredging (which has not been done for the past five years) to allow
the safe access for vessels. The maximum permissible draft is 5 metres, which constitutes
a restriction to the size of vessels that the port can accommodate. Due to the load volume
and size of moored vessels, the Port of Quelimane is considered as a secondary port. It
provides a wharf of 210 m length (plus a transition area of 30m) which can accommodate
simultaneously a maximum of three vessels (with a length of 60 - 80 m) - see figure 28.
The water depth is insufficient, as vessels may lay aground during low tide
Existing Infrastructure and equipment:
Container ships:   One with 204 TEU capacity (since 1996)
One with 170 TEU capacity (since 1997)
Both equipped with cargo handling gear
Maximum permissible draft 5m
Storage area:
Five 400-sqm warehouse for storage and sixteen 790-sam open storage areas. In addition
there is one warehouse of 1 800 sqm and a further storage area of 3 000 sqm.
Buoys: one
Pilot boats: out of order frequently.
Quay
One: with a wharf of 21Dm and a transition area of 30m, capable of accommodating three
vessels (60-80 m).
Administration buildings: three (main and two smaller).
Workshops:
Mechanical: one workshop with an area of -1 200 sqm and various rooms electrical: one,
outside the port area, with seven rooms and 210 sqm.
Fire fighting systems: non-existent
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         73



EnvirDnmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pofl Restructunng Project
Harbour cranes:
- Two MAN portal cranes with nominal capacity of 4 tons and outreach of 14 m from the
quay wall face.
- Three hydraulic mobile cranes (capacity 20 tons), one operational but in poor
condition.
Other cargo handling equipment:
One forklift, six tractors (one operational) and trailers (four, only one operational). Nine
second-hand forklifts out of service. Three trucks out of order.
Marine equipment: one small tugboat with 1.2 ton capacity. Two obsolete.
INFRASTRUCTURE CONDITIONS
The river has only one buoy with a functioning light, and one buoy is missing. The pilot
boats are frequently out of order and the port has no funds for the renting of boats. The
clients are then forced to provide a boat service.
Quay
The port provides a wharf of 210 m length (plus a transition area of 30m) which can
accommodate simultaneously a maximum of three vessels (with a length of 60 - 80 m).
The water depth is insufficient, as vessels may lay aground during low tide.
The supporting structure of the quay is in bad condition and some of the components
ha've already 'ollapsed. The number and type of fenders is insufficient.  -
The surface of the quay deck is in need of repair, the pavement is broken and the
infrastructure deteriorated (e.g. ducts for water and power supply are exposed).
Pavement and drainage:
Large areas are not paved and the paved ones are in poor condition. The drainage
system is not working.
Administrative buildings: generally in poor condition (roofs, walls, power supply, etc).
Warehouses: generally lack maintenance and repair. As the roofs are in bad condition the
warehouses cannot be used to store water-sensitive products.
Power supply and lighting:
EDM provides the power supply. The distribution lines and power towers are generally in
poor condition. There is no shore-side illumination on the jetty area.
Harbour cranes:
There are 2 MAN portal cranes (lifting capacity 4tons), both operating but in poor technical
condition (plug box installations and power cables obsolete).
lmpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         74



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Other cargo handling equipment:
Most of the equipment is out of order with the exception of one forklift and some tractors
and trailers.
Marine equipment:
There is one small tugboat (capacity: 1.2 tons) very basically equipped, and in poor
condition. This boat is used for pilotage, assistance in the operation of small vessels and
inspection of navigational aids and channels.
Services:
Cargo handling.
Vessels calling at Quelimane carry various types of cargo (see table 8). There are no time
sheets and tally sheets, available for different types of cargo. There are basically three
types of vessels: general cargo, oil product carriers and reefer vessels (deep-frozen fish).
Table 38. Cargo handling productivity of main commodities
Cargo Handling Productivity of Main Commodities
Commodity      Tons/h  Tons/h  Tons/h  Workin  Interruptio Net   Gangs Tons/h
our  at our  in our    g  time n  during workin per   our per
jetty    port    oper.  at jetty  operations g time vessel gang
General  cargo 6.2      4.6     14.4   60       28         43     1.5    9.6     .
including timber
and container
General  cargo 5.2              12      60      28         43     2.0    6.0
excluding timber
and container
Container       30.2            70      60      28         43     1      70
Timber          7.8             18      60      28         43     1.5    12
Fish            10.8            25      60      28         43     1      25
Oil             64.8            150    60       28         43     1      150
Port capacity:
The determination of the port's capacity is based on three factors: berthing capacity, cargo
handling capacity at the pier and storage capacity.
Berthing capacity
Quelimane port can be used for berthing three vessels (60-80m) at the same time. The
annual berthing capacity is 219 vessels. Currently the port has 120 vessels calling per
year.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           75



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 39. Cargo handling capacity at the pier
Aiip ti o s - g.i f6Sf h i              ltti~i             __ _____
Comrmodity                              fOil        Fish   General cargo
products        .
Annual cargo to be handled at capacity limits  64 000 t    4 500t To be calculated
Average amount per vessel                1 300 t    240 t  1 300 t
No. Of vessels per year                  49         19    To be calculated
Net productivity per gang hour           100 t      25 t   10 t
No of gangs per vessel                   1          1      2
Working days in port per vessel          1           1     3
Working days per year                    49         19    To be calculated
The total cargo handling capacity exceeds 300 000 tons per year with an average berth
utilisation of 60%.
Transport capacity from quay to storage area: as the amount of cargo per vessel is at the
present rather small, not much equipment is needed for transportation, and the actual
conditions are sufficient.
Storage capacity: except for intermediate storage of logs and small amounts of containers
there is, at present, no further demand for storage.
Dwell time in the port:
Containers:
Most delivered and received directly. Most stay for a few hours, to a maximum of one day
prior to delivery to final destination. Less than 5% of the boxes remain in the port for
longer periods. Average dwell time for these boxes is one week. A relativelt large number
of empty containers remain in the port from several months to several years.
TimberAogs:
Timber for export is stored in areas leased from the port on an annual basis. Average
dwell time is one month.
General cargo:
Small amounts of inbound cargo stored in the port. Average dwell time is three days to
one week.
Storage area/capacity:
The actual storage capacity is 3 600 sqm of storage area and 13 800 m of open storage
area. The storage capacity is sufficient to handle the expected cargo volume. At present
most storage facilities are not in use. Storage facilities are in bad condition.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        76



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port'Restructuring Project
4.1. NATIONAL POLICY: THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (NEMP)
The National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP), approved by the Council
of Ministers in 1995, seeks to promote and implement sound environmental policy. The
NEMP is an integral component of the Mozambican government's five-year Development
Programme (1995-1999), the main objective of which is the eradication of poverty through
the sustainable use of Mozambique's natural resources. The NEMP represents the
culmination of a series of initiatives and activities co-ordinated by the Ministry for Co-
ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA). It is the master-plan for the environment in
Mozambique and contains a National Environment Policy, Framework Environmental
Legislation and Environmental Strategy.
The NEMP consists of Sectoral Plans, for the medium and long term, which are intended
to lead to sustainable development of Mozambique. Three policy areas are defined: rural,
coastal and urban. For rural areas, agriculture and forestry issues are considered the most
important. In coastal areas, mangrove degradation, coastal pollution, and erosion are the
main issues to be addressed under the programme. For urban areas the degradation of
sanitation systems and the poor water quality are the most urgent issues.
MICOA has been given the authority to oversee the implementation the NEMP. To this
effect, environmental rules and regulations will be devised and enforced. In this regard,
MICOA will evaluate policies of other ministries as well as their capacity to promote and
implement sound environmental policy.                          -
The implementation of the NEMP will require a range of actions at all levels and across
sectors.
In accordance with NEMP, MICOA, in close co-ordination with other ministries, private and
civil groups will, work towards:
a) Development of inter-sectoral policies for sustainable development;
b) Development and promotion of integrated resource-use planning;
c) Promotion of sector legislation and of establishment of norms and criteria for
environmental protection and sustainable use of the countries' natural resources;
d) Create conditions for law enforcement and environmental monitoring:
In July 1997 the Framework Environmental Law, arising from NEMP was
passed, thus enabling the incorporation of environmental considerations
into sectoral plans, programmes and policies.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       77



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port'Restructuring Project
Ports and harbours are considered specifically under Chapter 5 of the NEMP: POLICY,
STRATEGIES AND PRIORITY ACTIONS, Section 5.7 Coastal and Marine
Management. Section 5.7.3 (Coastal and Marine Protection) refers to the necessity to
protect coastal and marine resources through integrated (inter-sectoral) management and
co-ordination.
Specific medium- to long-term Actions for coastal and marine protection include:
- To promote the creation of conditions for national ports, especially the ports of Maputo,
Beira and Nacala to deal with waste arising from shipping activities
- To create conditions for the treatment of industrial and domestic wastes prior release
into littoral water especially for Maputo and Beira.
- To carry out and EIA for all coastal and marine projects prior to their implementation.
- Prepare and implement, in co-operation with other sectors, a National Contingency
Plan for oil spills and for other toxic chemical and petroleum products
- To promote the ratification of relevant international conventions for e.g., the regional
Seas Convention and other convention of the International Maritime Organisation.
The formulation 6f an environmental Audit and Management Plan, especifically for ports,
harbours and railways, therefore, clearly falls under the NEMP.
4.2. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND
PROTECTION
4.2.1. INTRODUCTION
From a legal point of view, issues related to the environment are relatively new in
Mozambique. The Constitution of Mozambique lays out some principles on the subject',
but in a very general way which, for the most part, are not backed tip by specific,
applicable legislation.
The recently passed Framework Environmental Law is a general law which refers to
complementary legislation. Regulations to enforce the Environmental Law are currently
being drawn up. Nevertheless, CFM and concessionaires must take into consideration
everything that is already specified in the Law as well pre-empt the creation more specific
regulations.
Additional sectoral legislation refers to certain components of environmental protection
most notably the new (1997) Land Law (protected zones, rights over land, compensation
for loss of land etc.) the Water Law (water pollution), General Regulations for Urban
Construction (air pollution) and General Hygiene, Health and Safety Rules (human safety
and health).
Regulations for harbour operations ("Regulamento da Exploracao dos Cais") date from
colonial time (approved on 24th April, 1965 by Portaria No 18630).
1 See Articles 36,37,38 and 72 of ttle Constitution of 1990
impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        78



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Poff Restructuring Project
These regulations still form the basis harbour operations in Maputo, Inhambane,
Quelimane, Lumbo, Nacala, Pemba and Mocimboa da Praia. Interestingly Beira is not
covered by the regulations.
The harbour regulations refer mainly to operational aspects although some Articles refer
to environmental protection, health and safety.
4.2.2. RELEVANT LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS
4.2.2.1. The Framework Environment Law (1997)
The new Framework Environmental Law was passed by the Mozambican Parliament in
July 1997. It was published in the official government gazette and is, therefore, in force.
(Law No. 20/97, Boletim de Republica No. 40, 1st Series, 3rd Supplement of the 7th
October, 1997)
Amongst the norms contained in the Law the following are relevant to the Port and
Railways Restructuring Project:
The Environmental Law is applicable to all public or private activities that may influence
the environment either directly or indirectly;2 (the Law therefore covers CFM and
concessionaires).
The attention given to environmental management-must be independent of the existence
of scientific certainty about the occurrence of significant or irreversible negative
environmental impacts.3
With regard to liability, those who pollute, or in any way degrade the environment, are
always under obligation to rehabilitate it or to compensate for the resulting damage.<
The Law forbids pollution from the production stage up to that of the depositing in the soil,
subsoil, water or atmosphere of any polluting substances, or any other form of
degradation of the environment, which fall outside the limits stipulated by the law.5
The law also forbids, explicitly, the importation of dangerous residues or dangerous waste,
except for that laid down in specific legislation.6
The Law stipulates the govemment's obligation in determining the standards for
environmental quality. In defining such standards, it will also determine specifications and
deadlines for modifications to agricultural and industrial processes, to machines and
means of transport, for the installation of appropriate devices that retain or neutralise all
polluting substances.7
2 Article 3, of the Environmental Law
3 Article 4, paragraph (c) of the Environmental Law
4 Idem. paragraph (g)
5 Article 9 of the Environmental Law
6 Idem
7 Article 10 of the Environmental Law
/mpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                               79



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Por Restnrctunng Project
It forbids the establishment of infrastructures that, by virtue of their size, nature or location
may cause a significant negative impact on the environment, the same rule being
applicable to waste and used materials disposal.
This above prohibition, however, may also work in the interest of CFM as it includes
regulations applicable to the establishment of infrastructures in the areas surrounding,
among others, railways and harbours' to ensure that the operation, expansion and the
scenic harmony of these sites is not prejudiced.
Projects and operations that are likely to have a negative impact on the environment are
required to be subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment by independent assessors.
It also forbids all activities that may threaten the conservation, reproduction, quality and
quantity of biological resources, especially those in danger of extinction.9
It should be noted that:
Even though the Environmental Law is a very general law which refers to complementary
legislation, CFM and concessionaires must take into consideration everything that is
already forbidden in this Law (even if only in a general manner), as well as the possibility
that it creates for new and more specific regulations. It is recognised that this may involve
financial costs for investment projects.
It is especially important to take careful notice of the contents of Articles 4 (paragraph c),
12, No 1 and 14. Further, it would be advisable to institute mechanisms appropriate to the
regulations stipulated in Article 9, N02.
Selected Chapters and Articles of the Framework Ehvironmental Law that- have direct
relevance to the plans and operations of CFM are cited below.
CHAPTER III of the Law deals with ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION
ARTICLE 9 PROHIBITION AGAINST POLLUTION
The production, deposit in soil or sub-soil, emission into water or atmosphere of any toxic
or pollution substance as well as the practice of any activities which accelerate the
erosion, desertification, deforestation or any form of environmental degradation that are
outside of the legally established limits is not permitted in the national territory.
The importation into the national territory of toxic residues or wastes is expressly
prohibited, except under the terms that would be established in specific legislation.
ArticlelO Environmental Quality Standards
The Government shall establish environmental quality standards in order to ensure the
sustainable use of the nation's resources.
8 Article 14 of the Environmental Law
9 Article 12 of the Environmental Law
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            80



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
In the definition of the environmental quality standards, rules and time limits shall be
established for agricultural and industrial processes including machinery and methods of
transport to adopt the appropriate technology and procedures in order to neutralise or
prevent the emission of polluting substances.
CHAPTER IV refers to SPECIAL MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Article 11: Protection of Environmental Assets
The Government shall ensure that assets and in particular cultural and historical assets
are the subject of measures that permanently protect these assets and that involve, as is
necessary and appropriate, communities and, in particular, associations for the defence of
the environment.
Article 12 specifically refers to the Protection of Biodiversity
All activities that adversely affect the conservation, reproduction, quality and quantity of
biological resources especially those threatened with extinction are prohibited.
Article 13: Environmental Protection Zones
In order to protect and preserve environmental components and to maintain and improve
ecosystem that have a recognised ecological and socio-economic value, the government
shall establish environmental protection zones that shall be duly demarcated. These
protected zones may be national, regional, local or intemational, consistent with the
interests to be safeguarded. The zones may cover land areas, lakes, rivers, marine waters
and other distinctive nature zones.
Environmental protection zones shall be classified, conserved and supervised. The
measures adopted to classify, conserve and supervise the zones shall take into account
both the need to preserve biodiversity as well as social, economic, scientific and scenic
values.
The measures referred to in the aforementioned paragraph shall include the definition of
activities that are permitted or prohibited within the protected zones and in the areas
adjacent to the zones and also the role of local communities in the management of
these zones.
Article 14: Implantation of Infrastructures
The implantation of residential or other infrastructures and the deposit of waste and used
materials, which, by virtue of their size, nature or location, would provoke a significant
negative impact on the environment, are prohibited.
The prohibition is applicable in particular to coastal zones, zones threatened by erosion
and desertification, wetlands, environmental protection zones and other ecologically
sensitive zones.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         81



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Norms for the implantation of infrastructure in the above zones shall be established by
regulations. The implaritation of infrastructures surrounding roadways, railways, dams,
ports and airports, among other sites, shall also be regulated to ensure that the operation,
expansion and the scenic harmony of these sites is not prejudiced.
CHAPTER IV refers to PREVENTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE
Article 15: Environmental Licensing
The licensing and registration of activities, which by virtue of their nature, location or size
are liable to cause significant environmental impacts, shall be carried out in accordance
with the regime to be established by the government by way of specific regulations.
The issuance of an environmental license shall be based upon an environmental impact
assessment of the proposed activity. This environmental license is a prerequisite to the
issuance of any other license, which may be legally required in each case.
Articlel6: Environmental Impact Assessment
The environmental impact assessment shall be based on an environmental study to be
carried out by entities registered by the government.
The environmental impact assessment methodologies and other procedures for each case
shall be defined in specific legislation.
Article17: Minimum Content of the Environmental Impact Study
The environmental Impact study shall include the following minimum information:
A non-technical summary of the project;
A description of the activity to be carried out;
The environmental status of the site where the activity is to be carried out;
Any consequential alteration of the different environmental components which exist at the
site;
Measures to be taken to eliminate or reduce the negative impacts of the activity on
environmental quality;
Systems to be implemented to control and monitor the activity.
Article 18: Environmental Audits
All activities which on the date this law enters into force are operating without the
application of appropriate technologies or procedures and as a consequence, result or
could result in damage to the environment shall be responsible for the costs which result
from the repair of environmental damage which may be determined by the audit.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        82



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
4.2.2.2. WATER RELATED LAWS AND REGULATIONS
The Water Act
The Water Legislation was approved by Act 16/9110 of 3 August. It establishes general
principles relating to water affairs and regulates, to a certain extent, the main issues
related to water in general.
For the project under assessment, the following needs to be considered:
- The procurement of water and
- The discharge of water used during construction, rehabilitation and operational phases
of a project
a)   Water supply
In order to have freshwater for a project, the proponent has two options: (1) to enter
into a conventional contract with the water company (e.g., "Aguas de Maputo") for
water supply or (2) procurement of water from the river or lake source in which case
the Water Act and other correlated legislation will apply. In this context, the
regulations contained in Act 16/91 of 3 August, Water Act ("Lei das Aguas"), are of
special importance: any persons, individual or collective, public or private, national or
foreign, authorised to operate in Mozambique may have access to the private use
and benefit from water granted by licence or concession provided that they do not
jeopardise the ecological equilibrium and the environment."
(b) Effluent disposal
In connection with industrial effluent disposal, the following clauses of the Water Act are
relevant'2:
Article 51 of Act 16/91 of 3 August states that uwater contamination, for the purposes of
this Act, consists of the action and its effect of introducing substances, forms of energy or
in the creation of conditions which will result, either directly, or indirectly, in the
deterioration of its quality for subsequent use or for its ecological function".
Article 53 prohibits the direct or indirect waste and effluent disposal which may
contaminate the waters. It also prohibits the accumulation of solid residues, waste or any
substances which may contaminate or create the risk of contaminating the water.
10 Act 16/91 is published in the *Boletim da Republica', no. 31, Supplement 2. 1st Series, of 3 August
1991.
11 Idem
12 It would be useful to pay attention to the contents of Decree 495/73 of 6 October, which stipulate in
article
1: *1. It is forbidden, except under special licence, to pour or dispose of any noxious waters and residual
substances, as well as any other substances or residues which may in any way or manner, pollute the
waters, beaches or banks, such as oil products or mixtures containing them, in a neighbouring zone and
in territorial sea waters, in the overseas provinces' as well as in harbours, quays, wells, river beds or
subsidiaries, be they navigable or non-navigable, beaches, banks and other areas under the jurisdiction
of the maritime authorities'.
Note: This is a Decree of 1973, when Mozambique was still under Portuguese rule. Portugal
referred to its overseas territories4or colonies) as overseas provinces.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                             83



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Article 54 states that special permission is compulsory, which is granted by the regional
water administration bodies, for the disposal of residual waters, human or other
substances which may result in the contamination or degradation of the public water
domain. Article 54, NO 3 also states that qualitative and quantitative limits will be
established, by regulations, upon which the required operations will be dependent on an
authorisation of the Ministry of Construction and Water which will be granted after hearing
interested parties.
It is also important to note the contents of Articles 60, no. 5 and 61 of the Water Law,
concerning the sanitation of residual waters. Article 60, no. 5: "The channelling of non-
domestic residual waters through the public sewerage system, is subject to special
authorisation." Article 61: "Residual waters which, in their raw state, may affect the proper
functioning of the sewerage system or of the purification plant, may not be disposed of
without prior treatment."
4.2.2.3 THE LAW OF THE SEA AND THE REGULATING STATUTE OF THE NATIONAL
SERVICE FOR MARITIME INSPECTION AND ADMINISTRATION
The Law of the Sea, Act no. 4/96 of 4 Januaryl5addresses, in Article 2, N° 1, covers, "the
sea and all navigable waters as well as their sea beds and subsoil, all of which are under
maritime jurisdiction, as well as the public domain adjacent to such waters". The legal
document covers mainly aspects related to maritime traffic, but also refers to activities
concerning the conditions of security and the control of the pollution of the marine
environment.
Through Decree no. 34/94 of 1 September the National Service for Maritime Inspection
and Administration was created and its Regulating Statute was approved. Article 2 of the
Regulating Statute, concerning the sphere of jurisdiction of the National Service for
Maritime Inspection and Administration stipulates:
"In terms of the present statute, the following activities are subject to the authority of the
National Service for Maritime Inspections and Administration: a) ... b) ... c) Maritime
activities concerning the conditions of security and the control of the pollution of the
marine environment...".
The Law does not establish specific regulations for the activities of Shipping or Dredging
Companies. The requirements for constitution of such companies are to be included in
future regulations.
The Law of the Sea confers to the GOM the regulation of:
- Maritime scientific research
- Protection and conservation of the marine environment
- Protection of archaeological objects
- Planning of recreational and marine sport areas
13Act no." 4196 of 4 January is published in the *Boletim da Rep(zblica' no." 1, Supplement. 1 st Series of 4
January 1996.         ,
Impacto. Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            84



Environmental Audit and. Management Plan for the, Rail and Port Restructunrng. Project
The law defines the constitution of maritime courts whose jurisdiction covers port areas,
construction and rehabilitation areas. The constitution of such courts is planned for
Maputo, Beira, Quelimane and Nacala as well as the port areas of Inhambane and
Pemba.
4.2.3. ATMOSPHERIC POLLUTION
With the exception of the Environmental Act, there is no specific legislation in
Mozambique concerning the atmosphere or its pollution.
However, in the General Regulations for Urban Construction4 the following rules
refer to air emissions:
Article 36: "Chimneys and smoke-stacks must provide adequate draught, be built from
fire-proof materials and be placed at a distance of at least 0,20 m from any combustible
material. Smoke-stacks, when grouped, must be separated from each other by sheets of
fire-proof material, of an appropriate thickness and without any openings.
Article 37: "Smoke stacks must rise at least 0,50m above the highest point of the
building's roofing, or of any adjacent construction within a range of 1 Om. The exits may not
be placed within 1,50 m from any openings in residential compartments and must be
easily accessible for cleaning."
Article 38: "The chimneys of buildings whose operation may result in insalubrity or any
other disadvantage or harm to neighbouring buildings, must be provided with the
necessary apparatus to avoid such problems."
4.2.4. CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF NEW FACILITIESIINFRASTRUCTURE
(HEALTH AND SAFETY)
Any construction is subject to building regulations in Mozambique' especially industrial
buildings.
In this context, the most important legal documents are the Legislative Diploma no. 3057
of 12 December 197016 and the Legislative Diploma 48/73 of 5 July 1973, which
determines the licensing regime for industrial establishments.
Legislative Diploma" N°. 3057 determines the general conditions for the technical licensing
of industrial buildings - the authorisation for the construction of industrial buildings - also
contains three annexures. The Legislative Diploma 48f73 stipulates the General Hygiene,
Health and Safety Rules that regulate Industrial Buildings.
14 The General Regulations for Urban Construction were approved by Legal Document no.1976 of 10 May
1960. and published in the 'Boletim Oficial no.0 19, 1st Supplement, 1st Series of 10 May 1960.
15 In Mozambique, the construction of buildings in general is subject to a whole array of broad regulations,
scattered according to subject. In this way, for example, builders have to conform to the regulations
conceming building per se, the regulations conceming protection against fires, the regulations conceming
drainage and sewerage, etc.
16 Published in the 'Boletim Official' no. 110, 1st Series, of 12 December 1970
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                     85



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project.
a) Ventilation
The document establishes that the place of work, as well as all outbuildings, must have
good ventilation, either natural or artificial, so as to ensure the supply of clean air and the
elimination of stale air, of noxious gases, and/or of smoke and dust. It further establishes
limits for the speed of air circulation in cold and in warm weather, and it limits the use of
air conditioners solely to control extreme temperatures or in special cases.
The document also stipulates that all gases, dusts, vapours, smokes and fogs or mists
produced or discharged during plant operations must be captured, as far as possible, at
their production site, so as to avoid contamination of the atmosphere in the work place as
well as in adjoining areas.
b) General norms for hygiene and cleanliness
This document prescribes that general cleaning should preferably be performed outside
working hours and in such a way as to reduce the raising of dust to a minimum. The
cleaning should, preferably, be carried out by means of a pressurised water jet. The use of
compressed air is expressly forbidden.
This document also mentions that those responsible for industrial plants must handle and
dispose of all residues in such a way as to render them innocuous to the employees and
to the public in general.
c) Special conditions for ablution facilities
There must be separate ablution facilities for both sexes near the work area but without
direct communication with the work area. The ablution facilities must always have an
anteroom where the wash basins are located. These must have hot water.
There must be one toilet for every twenty people, with a flushing system and with
adequate connection to the sewerage system, or to a septic tank.
When the work activities involve unhealthy operations, exposing the workers to noxious
substances, or dirt, it is compulsory to provide cold and hot water showers, with change
rooms, at a rate of one per ten people.
Article 60 of Act 16/91 of 3 August, Water Act, determines that the owners of existing
buildings, or those that will be built, which are served by domestic sewerage systems, are
obliged to connect their ablution facilities to the sewerage pipes and to ensure that rain
water infiltration does not occur.
When not served by a public sewer, the owners of the existing, or proposed buildings
must ensure that the sewers be connected to facilities that will ensure proper treatment.
d) Health Conditions
The document stipulates that salt tablets be given to those workers who have to work in
intense heat, for reasonably long periods.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          86



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
e) Noxious, dangerous or toxic emissions
The document makes it compulsory that containers containing noxious, dangerous or toxic
substances, which may contaminate the environment or, by accident, the employees,
must have appropriate characteristics so as to avoid contamination risks or illnesses.
Workers dealing with these substances must:
i)  be aware of the risks to which they are exposed and know how to avoid them;
ii) be obliged to use the personal protective equipment provided to them;
iii) not introduce, prepare or eat any food in the places where such risks exist;
iv) be compelled to respect the personal hygiene practices required in such
cases.
The document also stipulates that operators must take the necessary steps to reduce the
employees' exposure to ionising radiation. The operators must also guarantee their
efficient protection against the same through individual and collective preventative
measures.
The Work Act
Act 8/85 of 14 December, the Work Act, refers to work safety, hygiene and protection. In
articles 136 to 138 it deals with the general principles and regulations for work hygiene
and in articles 139 to 145 with the question of work accidents and work-related diseases.
It is the responsibility of the employing party to create the appropriate means for the
protection of the workers' physical and mental health and to constantly review and
upgrade work conditions. It is the responsibility of the management to implement the
hygiene conditions and work protection.
4.2.5. LICENSING OF PROJECTS AND BUILDINGS
Authorisation for a development project will be dependent on the nature of the project as
well as the location (e.g. is it in or near to a gazetted conservation area).
The following are State and other entities that may be involved with authorising the
Project:
The "Ministerio para a Coordena,cfo da Ac,cio Ambiental" - MICOA (Ministry for
the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs);
The "Ministerio da Agricultura e Pescas" (Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries)
depending on the area, (e.g. near a protected area).
The "Ministerio da Industria, Comercio e Turismo" (Ministry of Industry, commerce
and Tourism) depending on the area (near a tourism designated area).
Rehabilitation, expansion and construction may require various authorisations and
licences, such as:
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         87



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
-  Environmental impact licence (MICOA)
-  Licence for the use and benefit from of the land depending on whether the operation
will be installed within or beyond 100 metres from the coast line
- Licence for the establishment of the operation (depending on the type of oper ati'u 
-  Licence for procuring water (Water Authorities)
-  Licence or authorisation for the disposal of industrial residual effluent
a) Ministry for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs
The above-mentioned Environmental Law states, in Article 15, that "the licensinc  -:' he
registering of activities which, by their nature, locality or size may have a significea-ii r-,,,act
on the environment, will be done in accordance with the principles to be establishe- b' -he
Government through specific regulation."'"
Article 16 stipulates:
"1.  The granting of the environmental impact licence will be based on an environmental
impact evaluation and will precede the granting of any other licences leg s!.;
for each case.
2.  The environmental impact evaluation will be based on an environmental Jnmc.:u sNdy
to be carried out by entities appointed by the Govemment...."
Given the nature of the plant and its locality, it will be necessary to acqcic  e 1le
environmental licence before any other.
b)  ".q.inisterio da Agricultura e Pescas (Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries)
The required licence for use and benefit from the land must be requested from, and
granted by, the Provincial Governor ("Governador Provincial") should the area be. smal!er
than 1 000 hectares, and should it not be covered by an urbanisation plan. Sohou!-' tha
area be bigger than 1 000 hectares and less than 10 000 hectares, the licensing then falls
under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries ("Ministro de A.rii    r r
Pescas'). If the area is covered by an urbanisation plan, then the.-licensing revn C n:i- 'rv
then falls on the Municipality."
Even though Articles 22 and 23 of the Land Law states that the grantinp o' Spes:
licences for the use and benefit from land situated in zones of partial protec. - .¢--
000 hectares range fall under the responsibility of the Provincial Governor v    -
Provincial"), one must bear in mind that if the area intended for the establi e   .
plant is within 100 metres of the coast, the Maritime Administration of the a  i
have to be consulted. (Organic Statute of the National Service for Maritime Ar    -
and Enforcement, approved by Decree No 34/94, published in the Boletim s.~ l~-.e.;i
NO 35, 1st series on 1st September 1994).
17 This Regulation has not yet been approved by means of a legal document published in a 'Boletim cc
Rep0blica'.
18 Article 19 of the Land Act.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999 D



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
c)  "Ministerio da Industria, Comercio e Turismo" (Ministry of Industry, Commerce and
Tourism)
For the case under consideration, this Ministry, as its name indicates, is the State body
responsible for all issues related to industry, commerce and tourism in Mozambique. This
ministry will be involved, mainly, in the granting of the licence for the installation of a new
plant.
If in an area covered by an urbanisation plan, the site will have to be in a prescribed
industrial zone, or be subject to the favourable recommendations of the Municipality
("Conselho Municipal") should there be no provision for industrial zones in the
urbanisation plan.
4.2.6 LAND USE AND TENURE
In Mozambique, all land is state property, and may not be sold or otherwise alienated.
Thus the right over land occupied is called "Direito de Uso e Aproveitamento da Terra"
(the "Right to Use and Enjoy the Land", but henceforth referred to in this reports "land
tenure rights"). This is defined as the right that singular or collective persons and local
communities acquire over land with the demands and limitations of the current law.
There are various ways of acquiring these land tenure rights, mentioned in Article 12 of
the Land Law:
a)   throu;h occunation by Mlrzambicen individuals and by local communities, foPlovwing
customary norms and practices that do not run counter to the Constitution;
b)   through occupation by Mozambican individuals who, in good faith, have been using
the land for at least ten years;
c)   through the authorisation of a request tnade by individual or groups in the form
established by law.
Taking Articles 13 (Titles) and 14 (Registration) of the Land Law together, it can be stated
that the lack of a title, and consequently of registration of the respective land tenure rights,
in the case of paragraphs a) and b) of Article 12, does not necessarily imply that these
same rights do not exist and are not recognised.
Thus, even if households do not possess a licence stating their land tenure rights, these
rights still exist, as long as the households can effectively prove (e.g., through witnesses)
that they have occupied the land for more than ten years, or according to customary
norms.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           89



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
THE EXTINCTION OF LAND TENURE RIGHTS
The extinction of land tenure rights, under Article 18 of the Land Law, occurs:
a)    because of non-compliance with the land use plan;
b)    because the land tenure right has been revoked in the public interest, preceded by
the payment of a just amount in compensation;
c)    when the time span in the land title or its renewal period has expired;
d)    when the title-holder renounces his rights.
It can be noted that, under the terms of the law it is not possible to transfer tenure rights
through negotiation between the holder of the rights and another interested party. Indeed,
the possibility of negotiation is implicitly denied, both by the Constitution, and by Article 3
of the Land Law. Both these legal documents forbid any.form of sale or alienation of land.
Thus when a title-holder renounces his right, the land returns to the State, the legitimate
owner. It may not pass into the hands of a third party else whom the previous holder of the
tenure rights might have had an interest or desire of giving it to.
Thus, the only legal mechanism available to CFM - should it require land to which other
bodies already have title - will be to request that the state proceeds to revoke the land
tenure rights of these bodies in the public interest, with CFM promising to pay a just
amount of compensation, in line with Article 18, paragraph b b), of the Land Law.
The new Land Law does not pronounce about the rights of individuals or groups of
persons whose land tenure rights may be revoked by force of public interest, apart from
es'ab! shirg 'hat thzy shall have the right-to a just amount of compenp ationr...
This principle of paying compensation is also established in the Constitution, in Article
1310 of the Civil Code as well in Article 52 of the Land Law of 1979.
Since the new Land Law does not mention the rights of the households who may be
moved in the public interest, Articles 562 to 572 of the Civil Code, and the regulations for
implementing the 1979 Land Law are applied. These regulations were approved by
Decree no. 16/87 of 15 June 1987.
Jointly, these legal diplomas guarantee that the households to be transferred shall remain
at the same economic level with the granting of new areas of an equivalent value in the
same zone or elsewhere.
This means that'9:
i)    They must be given land that has equivalent conditions to the land where
theynow live, in terms of:
- area, soil productivity and water;
- location in relation to urban or semi-urban centres;
- location in terms of access (roads, tracks etc.), means of transport etc.
19 Resulting from article 52 of the 1979 Land Law Regulations, and article 562 of the Civil Code.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           90



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
It would be incumbent upon the State/CFM to fulfil the obligation of building the
access routes that may be necessary to ensure that the same conditions are
established.
It must be ensured that the households can build houses equivalent to those they
now possess - either by giving them money, or through building materials and
assistance in labour.
As for their crops, they will have to be given the necessary seeds .so that they can
resume planting.
ii)   If the place where they currently live contains water improvements - irrigation,
drainage channels etc - then the same conditions must be established by the
State/CFM in the new places attributed to them.
The compensation must cover the losses caused, as well as the benefits that the
affected households cease to enjoy as a result of the transfer, which means that':
The State/CFM must provide compensation, in money, for the losses caused by
moving their home and their workplace, for example, for the loss of crops that
cannot be harvested because of this change, the loss of fruit trees that cannot be
replaced in a short period etc.
iii)   The state/CFM must provide compensation, also in money, for the benefits that the
households would have obtained from the production of the crops, fruit trees etc.,
that they r-urrentlv possess.
iv)   The expenses of moving to the new area will be borne by the State/CFM.2'
Procedures, Choice of a New Area and ComDensation Calculations
As regards the procedures, for those parties who must be transferred or displaced from
the land they occupy, the choice of the new area, and compensation calculations, the
general principles of law, and the stipulations of the 1979 Land Law Regulations must be
relied upon.
a)    The State must, by a Decree of the Council of Ministers, declare revoked land
tenure rights of the households in the area where infrastructure will be built, for
public interest reasons. This declaration must stipulate the nature of the public
interest for revoking the land rights, and who is the direct beneficiary of the
revoking. It must identify the area covered and the households affected.=
20 Resulting from article 564 of the Civil Code.
21 Resulting from article 52 of the 1979 Land Law Regulations.
22 Resulting from article 50 of the 1979 Land Law Regulations, and Article 15, paragraph 1, line b) of the new Land
Law.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                             91



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pod Restructuring Project
It appears that this Decree should also establish CFM's duty to reconstitute, as far as
possible, the situation that would have existed had the land tenure rights not been
revoked.
The Decree revoking the land tenure rights must appoint a Commission:3, the purpose of
which will be:
- To assess the losses that the affected households will suffer, as well as the value of
the benefits they will cease to enjoy, because of the transfer;
- To ensure that the rights of the affected households are respected, and that CFM
complies with its obligations to support the households affected, to pay the
compensation owing, and to establish in the new area, conditions equivalent to those
that the affected households used to possess in the area they will leave;
- To choose new areas, preferably in agreement with the households who will be
transferred.
In terms of the law it is not established whether the households to be moved can choose
the new land where they want to live. Obviously it will be better for all involved if the new
area is chosen with the agreement of the affected households.
b)    The transfer of the affected households should only be carried out after a survey
has been made of the exact conditions under which they were living (this survey
should be undertaken by the entity that would benefit from the transfer24) and after
payment of the compensation has begun'-'.
No law or rcg_ation lays down -the criteria for appointing the commission mentioned
above. However, it is recommended that in the event of CFM/concessionaires requiring
land rights, the commission comprises an agricultural economist, a jurist and a
sociologistanthropologist with knowledge of the uses and customs of the region.
As for calculating the compensation that should be paid in money, as well as verifying
whether the new conditions established are equivalent to those which the households
currently possess, neither the new Land Law, nor the general civil law are specific. Hence
the importance of appointing an impartial commission to oversee the process.
In general, the situation with regards to land tenure rights will be the same for the
construction of railway lines as well as for the construction of major infrastructure.
In areas where CFM may wish to expand and over which there are currently no land
tenure rights, CFM should place a request to acquire these rights.
In the case of a railway line which involves a limited strip of land CFM should preferably
obtain from the individuals or groups who hold rights over the land their consent for the
occupation of that area. An amount to be paid by CFM for the losses caused by ceding
23 The appointment of this commission is envisaged in Artide 53, paragraph 1, of the 1979 Land Law Regulations.
24 Resulting from article 51 of the 1979 Land Law Regulations.
25 Resulting from article 52 of the 1979 Land Law Regulations.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                              92



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
that land, and for the benefits no longer enjoyed, would be agreed with the holder of the
land tenure rights.
Should it prove impossible to obtain agreement from the holder of the land rights, this may
require revocation of rights, over the required portion of land.
One might apply, by analogy, the provision in the Civil Code on the establishment of a
surface right that allows third parties to build on land that does not belong to them. It
would be considered that CFM has the surface right over the area it needs for building the
railway line, while the holder of the land tenure rights would be regarded as the "owner" of
the land.26
In this case, the provisions of article 1530 of the Civil Code will be of particular interest.
This concerns the amount to be paid for a surface right, and envisages the possibility of
the body acquiring the right - CFM - making a lump sum payment or an annual payment.
Also, of particular importance will be the agreement between CFM and the holder of rights
over the land by the line and the adjacent strip which, in terms of Article 6, the Law
considers to be a "Partially Protected Zone" concerning the responsibilities and duties of
each, and the limits of civil responsibility of each, for accidents and damages arising from
the existence of the line. (Note: the "safety strip" adjacent to the railway line will be
regarded as Zones of Partial Protection, under the terms of Article 6, paragraph 3, line g).
Thus no land tenure right can be acquired over this land.
Apart from obtaining the agrpement of the holder of land tenure rights for line, it will be
necessary to establish "rights of passage" in favour of CFM over the land that provides
access to the line or infrastructure. By analogy, the stipulations of the Civil Code with
regard to legal rights of passage will be applied.27
This right of passage will make it possible for CFM to have access to line, Since these will
be on land it does not own. The right of passage may be established by a contract, by a
court, or administratively. It will involve paying compensation, if the right of passage
causes losses to the holder of the land rights, or prevents him from obtaining benefits.
Establishing this right of passage will be automatic if the surface right in favour of CFM, as
mentioned above, is established over the land required to build the line and the safety
strip.21
The servitude for maintenance or repair work will have to be regarded as a public
pathway, at least from the practical point of view, since it will be impossible to control its
use, particularly if built on land over which there exist no prior land rights.
26 See articles 1525 to 1535 of the Civil Code.
27 See articles 1543, 1547. 1550 and 1554 of the Civil Code. The way in which the right of passage shall be
exercised is covered by articles 1564 to 1568 of the Civil Code.
28 Article 1529 of the Civil Code.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                 93



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pot Restructuring Prject
However, as is evident, since the servitude exists to provide passage, nothing may be
carried out that prevents it being used in this way. However if the servitude or a portion
thereof is on land where the tenure rights belong to third parties, they will have the right to
prevent entities other than themselves and CFM from using it, and in this case CFM will
benefit from the establishment of a right of passage.
Land use during construction phase
There will have to be a special agreement between CFM and the holders of rights over the
land where the line and servitudes will be built. Compensation may be necessary, since
during this period these areas will be used intensively by the workforce and may result in
damages for those who hold rights over such land.
Use of Pesticides/Herbicides for clearing land
The Ministerial Diploma No. 88/87 of 29 July approved the regulations regarding the use
of pesticides whilst the Decree of 20 November the Ministries of Agriculture and Health
approved the registration of pesticides covered by the regulation.
In terms of the regulations only those pesticides registered with the National Institute for
Agronomic Research may be used. In the case of pesticides not registered, the proponent
user must obtain written permission from the Department of the Hygiene and Environment
of the Ministry of Health.
4.2.7. REGULATION FOR HARBOUR OPERATIONS
Regulations for harbour operations are specified in the uRegulamento da Explora,co dos
Cais dos Portos de Louren,o Marques, Inhambane, Quelimane, Mozambique (Parte-cais
do Lumbo), Nacala, Porto Amelia e Mocimboa da Praia" approved on 24th April 1965,
Portaria No 18630. These regulations cover mainly harbour activities and operations and
embarking/disembarking from vessels although a few articles refer to environmental
protection, health and safety.
Article 42 refers to the necessity to control land-based activities that, through run-off, may
affect the marine waters of the harbour.
Article 47 refers to the necessity to display the correct signalling flag on a vessel carrying
any explosive or hazardous substance.
Article 92 states when loading coal proper ventilation must be maintained to ensure the
safety of workers.
All products undergoing deterioration that may pose a health hazard must be removed
(Articles 123 and 124).
Radioactive substances are subject to a special regulation and may not be transported
through the port area without prior authorisation (Article 129).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         94



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Within the overall document only these few Articles refer to environmental and safety
issues. The regulations are obviously out-of-date and are inadequate to ensure
environmental health and worker safety and health.
4.3 INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS / TREATIES
International law is mainly based on Conventions (treaties), custom and general principles
of law. Before a convention constitutes binding obligations, it must first come into force. In
the case of multilateral conventions, the normal requirement is ratification by a certain
number of states.
Mozambique has signed and ratified a variety of international conventions relating to the
environment hereto, placing environmental impact management requirements and
obligations on the governments.
In Mozambique these conventions are not binding on individuals or companies unless the
obligations are enacted by an Act of Parliament. In the absence of enactment the
conventions impose obligations on the governments only. In Mozambique, MICOA
assumes these responsibilities
4.3.1. BASEL CONVENTION ON THE CONTROL OF TRANSBOUNDARY
MOVEMENTS OF HAZARDOUS WASTES AND THEIR DISPOSAL (RATIFIED BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE BY RESOLUTION NO 18/96, PUBLISHED IN THE
BOLETIM! DA REPUBLICA, N0 47,1ST SERIES ON 28TH NOVEMBER 1996).
OBJECTIVES
This convention imposes obligations on the parties thereto with a view to: (a) reducing
Trans-boundary movements of wastes subject to the Basel Convention, to a minimum,
consistent with the environmentally sound and efficient management of such wastes, (b)
minimising the amount and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated and ensuring their
environmentally sound management (including disposal and recovery operations) as close
as possible to the source of generation; (c) assisting developing countries in
environmentally sound management of hazardous and other wastes they generate.
It is stated in the preamble to the Convention that parties recognise the increasing desire
for the prohibition of Trans-boundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal
in other states, especially developing countries.
Scope of the Convention
For the purposes of the Convention, the following wastes that are subject to Trans-
boundary movement are considered "hazardous wastes":
(a)   Wastes that belong to any category contained in Annex I (of the Convention),
unless they do not possess any of the characteristics contained in Annex 1II; and
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       95



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
(b)   Wastes that are not covered under paragraph (a) but are defined as, or are
considered to be, hazardous wastes by the domestic legislation of the Party of
export, import or transit.
The parties to the Convention have, subsequent to the incorporation of annexures 1, II,
and IlIl, realised that the classification is too onerous and is in fact stifling development and
it is envisaged that the categorisation of waste will be reconsidered.
Summary of the provisions of the Convention
(a)   Trans-boundary movement of hazardous waste is allowed inter alia if the wastes in
question are required as a raw material for recycling or recovery industries in the
State of import. Such movement is, however, subject to the provisions of the
Convention.
(b)   Parties prohibiting the import of hazardous wastes shall inform the other Parties of
their decision pursuant to article 13.
The other Parties, when so informed, shall prohibit or shall not permit the export of
hazardous wastes to the Parties that have prohibited the import of such waste.
Mozambique has not issued such a prohibition to date;'9
(c)   Parties are to prohibit the export of hazardous wastes if the State of import does
not consent in writing to the specific import, in the case where the State of import
has not prohibited the import of such wastes;30
(d)   Parties are to prohibit all persons under their national jurisdiction from-transporting
or disposing of hazardous wastes unless such persons are authorised or allowed to
perform such types of operations;3
(e)   Parties are to designate or establish one or more competent authorities as focal
points to receive notifications;2,
Parties are to co-operate with each other in order to improve and achieve
environmentally sound management of hazardous wastes;;3
4.3.2 THE BAMAKO CONVENTION ON THE BAN AND IMPORT INTO AFRICA AND
THE CONTROL OF TRANSBOUNDARY MOVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF
HAZARDOUS WASTES WITHIN AFRICA. RATIFIED BY THE MOZAMBICAN
GOVERNMENT BY RESOLUTION NO 19/96. PUBLISHED IN THE BOLETIM DA
REPCJBLICA, N° 47, 1ST SERIES, 5TH SUPPLEMENT.ON 28TH NOVEMBER 1996.
This Convention resulted from the unsatisfactory wording of the Basel Convention from
the African point of view. In fact, only the OECD countries banned completely the export of
29 art. 4(1)(a)
30 art. 4(1)(a)
31 art. 4(7)(a)
32art.5
33 art. 10
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          96



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
hazardous wastes to non-OECD countries in 1994. The first wording of the Basel
Convention permitted the possibility of these exports as long as the hosting country
agreed, and this would have exposed the African countries to the temptation of solving
immediate cash flow problems with lucrative operations derived from dumping.
The Convention imposes the following obligations to the states that are parties to the
Convention:
i)   enact internal legislation which identifies and categorises hazardous wastes not
already identified and listed in the Convention;
ii)   create mechanisms for the enforcement of a ban on the dumping of such wastes at
sea or in the internal waters;
iii)   establish monitoring and regulatory authorities to report and act on the Trans-
boundary movement of hazardous waste;
iv)   co-operate with other state parties and international and/or regional organisations
in the fulfilment of the obligations under the Convention.
4.3.3 CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SEA - UNCLOS (RATIFIED BY THE
MOZAMBICAN GOVERNMENT BY RESOLUTION N021196. PUBLISHED IN THE
BOLETIM DA REPUBLICA NO 47, 1ST SERIES, 6TH SUPPLEMENT ON 28TH
NOVEMBER 1996).
Signed by Mozambique on December 10th,1982;
The Convention on the Law of the Sea was concluded and adopted in 1982 in the last
convened meeting that took place in Jamaica. The convention came into force world-wide
in 1995, when the required number of at least forty (40) states signed.and ratified it,
amongst them some of the "pioneer investors" on seabed mineral exploration, France,
India, Japan and the ex-USSR.
The main objectives of this Convention are:
i) to set up a comprehensive new legal regime for the seas and oceans
ii) to establish rules and standards to be observed and enforced in the area of the
marine environment and pollution.
The Convention has defined amongst other significant issues:
i) the territorial sea (12 maritime miles) and contiguous zone;
ii) the economic exclusive zone (200 maritime miles) and the extent of sovereign
rights therein;
iii) the rights of the coastal states over the continental shelf;
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        97



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
iv) the rights of landlocked countries;
v) legal position of the high seas;
vi) regime of islands.
It is the obligation of the states that have signed and ratified the Convention to further
develop and enact internal legislation that promotes the reduction, prevention and control
of pollution of the marine environment from land based sources, including rivers,
estuaries, pipelines, based on internationally agreed rules, standards and recommended
practises and procedures. Additional legislation should be enacted to further apply to
other cases of pollution from seabed activities such as dredging and from discharges from
vessels and from the atmosphere.
The Convention has a full chapter XII dedicated to environmental issues and includes an
obligation that all states must protect and preserve the marine environment. The right to
exploit the natural resources are subject to each country's environmental policy and to the
responsibility of the state to protect such resources.
It also stipulates the obligation for the individual states to create special procedures and
planning capacity to deal with emergency situations, at the national and regional levels. In
particular, whenever critical ecosystems are in danger, states should take all possible
measures in order to protect such ecosystems, especially if they contain endangered or
threatened species.
'f ,.<cessary states are required to enact, a' the national and regional levels, policies, rules-
and procedures that are compatible and in harmony with each other in order to protect
critical ecosystems.
It further controls and restricts the transfer of hazardous materials. States are obliged to
inform and warn of any potential or already existing source of pollution, to monitor
regularly the levels of pollution and to carry out impact evaluations of any activity
undertaken by any state that might result in pollution.
States may restrict the access and the right of passage of vessels to their ports on
environmental and anti-pollution grounds. They must however notify and publicly display
these restrictions and their respective standards and rules, and they may take this action
at a regional level ensuring that international maritime institutions and organisations are
fully informed on these initiatives.
UNCLOS is considered to be the Global Constitutional Convention since it establishes a
comprehensive and enforceable international law framework for the management of the
marine environment the resources rich seabed. Moreover, the fact that parties to the
Convention that have not yet ratified or expressed any reservation to the text of the
convention, in writing and/or publicly, are bound not to act in any way against or
inconsistently with the treaty.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            98



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnuctunng Project
The Law of the Sea requires coastal states to "prevent, reduce and control pollution of the
marine environment from dumping." Coastal states may adopt laws and regulations for
their EEZ's compatible with international rules and standards to combat pollution.
The Law also requires approval by coastal states before dumping can take place in their
territorial waters, in the EEZ's, and onto the continental shelf. Coastal states have a duty
under the same law to make sure that activities in their EEZ do not harm the marine
environment of other states.
4.3.4 CONVENTION FOR THE PROTECTION, MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
OF THE MARINE AND COASTAL ENVIRONMENT OF THE EASTERN AFRICAN
REGION AND RELATED PROTOCOLS. RATIFIED BY THE MOZAMBICAN
GOVERNMENT BY RESOLUTION NO 17196. PUBLISHED IN THE BOLETIM DA
REPOBLICA NO 47,1ST SERIES, 5TH SUPPLEMENT ON 28TH NOVEMBER 1996.
The Nairobi Convention as it is often called, was adopted on June 21st, 1995, with two
Protocols and an Action Plan under the UNEP Regional Seas Programme. The
Convention is directed towards problems of marine and coastal environmental
management from the perspective of the eastern African reality and requirements,
The terms of the Convention promote the following tasks:
i)   taking appropriate rneas.ures in order to prevent, reduce, and combat pollution,
including from ships, from land based sources and from waste dumping;
ii)   protect and preserve endangered ecosystems or rare and endangered species of
wild fauna and flora in their respective habitats;
iii)  co-operate in case of pollution emergencies;
iv)  take measures to prevent, reduce and combat environmental damage due to
dredging, land reclamation and other engineering activities;
v)   co-operate in monitoring and scientific research and exchange of information.
With the exclusion of the dredging and engineering activities and waste dumping all of the
other areas of cooperation and mutual agreement already form part of the UNCLOS.
The two Protocols complementary to the Convention regulate specifically:
i)   To protect areas and wild flora and fauna, in particular, through the control of
collecting, capture and killing of species; to protect critical habitats of breeding
stocks of such species; to protect migratory species and to prevent the introduction
of potential harmful alien species.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
ii)   Co-operation to combat marine pollution in case of emergencies, in particular, to
establish procedures for rapid reporting of marine pollution incidents; to provide
assistance to each other and a prompt response in the event of an incident.
None of the Eastern African Countries that signed this Convention viz. the Comoro
Islands; Reunion/France/European Union; Kenya, Madagascar; Seychelles and Somalia,
are members of SADC. However Mozambique and Tanzania participated in the
Conference but did not sign or ratify of this Convention. Mauritius was invited but not
attend.
The Convention has not yet met the conditions for entry into force since it has not been
ratified by at least six members/states. It is a Convention that permits the concession of all
rights and duties thereof to regional organisations (as was the case of the European
Union).
Two main reasons have been appointed as the cause for the lack of adherence to the
Convention, one being the lack of technical, state administration and financial capacity of
the states to firmly commit themselves to the implementation of the Action Plan and
contribute to the permanent secretariat. The other being the fact that the majority of the
tasks, rights and duties are already assigned to the same states under the UNCLOS and
other global conventions and organisations. The European Union has stated that as soon
as the region is prepared accept the obligations of the Convention it is prepared to co-fund
the execution of the Action Plan.
4.3.5 CONVENTION ON BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY. RATIFICATION IN 1994. THE
CONVENTION, IN ITS ENTIRETY IN ENGLISH AND PORTUGUESE, WAS PUBLISHED
IN THE GOVERNMENT BULLETIN (BOLETIM DE REPCJBLICA, N034, I SERIE) ON 24
AUGUST 1994.
OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Convention are to conserve biological diversity, promote the
sustainable use of its components, and encourage equitable sharing of the benefits
arising out of the utilisation of genetic resources.  Such equitable sharing includes
appropriate access to genetic resources, as well as appropriate transfer of technology,
taking into account existing rights over such resources and such technology.
While recognising that the conservation of biodiversity is a "common concern" of
humankind, the Convention emphasises the fact that natural resources are the property of
individual countries. It therefore places most decision-making powers at national level.
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Ratified by the Government of
Mozambique by Resolution NO 1/94. Published in the Boletim da Republica, NO 34, 1st
Series on 24th August 1994).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      100



Environmental Auidit and Management Plan for the, Rail and Port Restructuuing Project
OBJECTIVES
The ultimate objective of this convention is to regulate levels of greenhouse gas
concentration in the atmosphere, so as to avoid the occurrence of climate change on a
level that would impede sustainable economic development, or compromise initiatives in
food production.
Summary of the relevant provisions of the Convention
(a)   The Parties are to protect the climate system for present and future generations.
Developing countries should be accorded appropriate assistance to enable them to
fulfil the terms of the Convention. The Parties should work in co-operation, so as to
obtain maximum benefit from initiatives in the control of the climate system; 34
(b)   The developed countries (and other Parties listed in annex 1) commit themselves to
take special measures to limit their anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases,
and to enhance the capacity of their reservoirs for the stabilisation of such gases.
The developed countries (and other Parties listed in annex 11) undertake to accord
financial support to developing countries, to enable the latter to comply with terms
of the Convention;"
4.3.6 CONVENTION CONCERNING THE PROTECTION OF THE WORLD CULTURAL
AND NATURAL HERITAGE (PARIS, 1972). RATIFIED BY MOZAMBIQUE IN 1982
OBJECTIVES
The main purpose of the Convention is to establish an effective system of collective
protection of the cultural and natural heritage of outstanding universal value, organised on
a permanent basis and in accordance with modern scientific methods.
Summary of the relevant provisions of the Convention
(a)  Each State party recognises that the duty of identification, protection,
conservation and transmission to future generations of the cultural and
natural heritage belongs primarily to that State.'6
(b)  Parties are to integrate the protection of their heritage into comprehensive
planning programmes, to set up services for the protection of their heritage,
to develop scientific and technical studies and to take necessary legal,
scientific, administrative and financial steps to protect their heritage."
(c)  Parties undertake to assist each other in the protection of the cultural and
natural heritage.3Y
34 art. 3
35art.4
36 art. 4
37 art. 5
38 art. 6
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          101



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
(d) A World Heritage Committee is established, to which each party will submit
an inventory of its national heritage and which will publish a "World Heritage
List" and a "List of World Heritage in Danger."39
4.3.7 INTERNATIONAL MARITIME ORGANISATION
This influential international organisation administers the implementation of the following
Agreements and Conventions in the areas of the marine environmental:
i)    MARPOL 1973/1978 International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
Ships, 1973, and as modified in 1978 relating thereto;
ii)   International Convention Relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil
Pollution Casualties, 1969;
iii)   Protocol Relating to the Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Pollution by
Substances other than Oil, 1973;
iv)  International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969 and
Respective Protocol, 1976;
v)   International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for
Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, 1971 And Respective Protocol Dd 1976;
vi)   Conven,ti3ri. on t,-le Prevantion of Marine -Pollution by the -Dumping of Wastes and
Other Matter, 1972 as Amended (London Convention 1972);
vii)  International Convention  on  Oil Pollution  Preparedness  Response  and
Cooperation, 1990. In force since 1995.
Mozambique is a member of IMO since January 17th 1979 and has ratified the
amendments A.358(IX) in 1983 and is planning to accede to MARPOL and the
International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Co-operation
4.3.8 ORGANISATION ON THE INDIAN OCEAN MARINE AFFAIRS CO-OPERATION -
IOMAC
Mozambique has been a member of this organisation, by accession since September
24th, 1991. This entity has been organised under the auspices of UNCLOS and has the
head office in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
The organisation has defined as its objectives:
i)   To identify and create awareness regarding the potential resources for the
development of the states of the region of the Indian Ocean;
39 art. 8-11 
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      102



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
ii)   To provide a forum for co-operation for discussion and review  the possible
economic uses of these resources by the coastal and hinterland countries;
iii)   To promote a policy of integrated ocean management and regional action in
particular with regards to technical co-operation, to attain self reliance in ocean
management.
The main fields for co-operation are:
i)    marine services, technology and science;
ii)   living resources and non living resources;
iii)   ocean law. policy and management;
iv)   marine transport and communications;
v)    marine environment.
This organisation has the capacity to institute legal proceedings on behalf of any of its
member states and on its own merit and interest, on any issue within its competence.
4.3.9. PROTOCOL ON SHARED WATERCOURSE SYSTEMS IN THE SADC. SIGNED
IN AUGUST 1995
This Protocol, although not directly related to ports and transport systems, has some
implications to SADC when shared water systems are used for navigational purposes or
when dredging and port construction or expansion is envisaged.
The main objectives of this multilateral and regional agreement are:.
i)   to co-operate in order to attain a rational, judicious and co-ordinated use of the
watercourse systems;
ii)  to co-ordinate an environmentally sound management  towards achieving the
sustainable use of these resources;
iii)  to promote equity uses agreed by all the regional countries;
iv)   to promote regional integration under the SADC Treaty.
Each country should establish in accordance with this Protocol, a special authority or
board to monitor in each country the respective drainage basins. Regionally a water
resources centre should be created which would have amongst others, the following
functions:
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         103






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
i)   co-ordinate the implementation of measures for the conservation, protection,
administration and pollution control of water resources in shared water course
systems.
ii)   exchange available information and data regarding  the hydrological, hydro-
geological, water quality, meteorological, and ecological conditions of such
watercourse systems.
The utilisation of these resources may be for agricultural, domestic, industrial and
navigational purposes. Member states sharing a watercourse shall co-operate to study
any possible adverse effect/s of any project developed within its own jurisdiction that might
have an effect on the regime of the watercourse.
The Protocol has been signed and ratified, or only signed by the following Parties to the
SADC.
4.3.10 THE ZAMBEZI RIVER BASIN MULTILATERAL AGREEMENT (SIGNED, 1987)
The Zambezi river basin extends over parts of Namibia, Angola, Botswana, Zimbabwe,
Zambia, Tanzania, Malawi and Mozambique.
This Multilateral Agreement, signed in 1987, precedes the SADC Protocol and has already
identified has its main tasks as:
i)   the inventory of all projects planned for this watercourse by all riparian states;
ii)  the development of an integrated water resources management plan for the
Zambezi river basin/ZACPLAN;
iii)  environmental impact assessments for already ongoing and planned projects;
iv)   strengthening the technical capacity at the national and regional levels;
v)   development of management schemes for water resources.
4.3.11 RAMSAR CONVENTION (CONVENTION ON WETLANDS OF INTERNATIONAL
IMPORTANCE ESPECIALLY AS WATERFOWL HABITAT). MOZAMBIQUE IS
PREPARING TO ACCEDE
OBJECTIVES
The Convention aims to "stem the progressive encroachment on and loss of wetlands now
and in the future, recognising the fundamental ecological functions of wetlands and their
economic, cultural, scientific and recreational value."
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        104



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
CFM must take into consideration the contents of the Conventions that have been ratified
by Mozambique, or to which Mozambique has adhered to and are due to be published.
CFM must also consider those conventions to which Mozambique is planning to accede
and are not yet in force in Mozambique especially MARPOL.
4.4. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
THE MINISTRY FOR THE COORDINATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) was created as an
entirely new Ministry out of the former National Environmental Commission (CNA).
MICOA is the State's central organ responsible for environmental affairs and was created
by Presidential Decree no.2/944° of 21 December. Its objectives and functions are defined
in Presidential Decree no. 6/954' of 16 November. Having principally a co-ordination
mission, MICOA  is responsible for ensuring that environmental considerations are
incorporated into the sectoral plans, policies and legislation of the line ministries. MICOA
has also been given the authority to address all issues related to the environment as
formulated in the National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP).
The mandate of the new Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs, (MICOA)
includes:
-  Developinent of inter-sectoral policies for sustainable development;
-  Co-ordination of policy implementation,
-  Education and promotion of public awareness,
-  Promotion of sector legislation and of establishment of norms and criteria for
-  sustainable use of the countries' natural resources,
- Enforcement of environmental laws and regulations.
Specifically with regard to the incorporation of environmental dimensions into CFM's
operations, the following competencies of MICOA should be noted ':
-  To promote the use of natural resources, renewable or non-renewable, in a
-  sustainable manner;
-  To create norms, regulating and inspecting all activities related to the exploitation of
natural resources, through appropriate legal mechanisms;
-  Maintaining and monitoring the quality of the environment.
-  To provide technical opinion on economic and social projects which may have
environmental repercussions;
40 See 'Boletim da Repuiblica' no.0 51, 1st Series of 21 December 1994
41 See 'Boletim da Repuiblica' no.0 48, Supplement, 1 st Series of 29 November 1995
42 The Regulating Statute for the Ministry of Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs, that is, the
organisation and functioning manner of this Ministry, was approved by Ministerial Diploma (document)
no. 49/97 of 2 July, published in the Boletim da Republica' no.0 27, Supplement, 1 st Series of 2 July
1997.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                105



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
- To control and inspect the environmental implications of economic and social
activities;
- To evaluate the environmental impact of sectors of activities;
- To carry out assessments and environmental inspections on the various sectors of
activity.
-  Review and, where necessary revise, sectoral plans, policies and legislation with
regard to environmental dimensions.
A provisional organogram for MICOA is presented in Figure 30, this will be restructured as
the newly-formed Ministry better defines it's own tasks and competencies
Currently, provincial MICOA structures are weak: provincial directorates are only in place
in two of the ten Provinces viz. Gaza and Nampula Provinces.
In the event of Environmental Impact Assessment being required, CFM or the
Concessionaire will have to liaise with the EIA Department of the National Directorate of
Natural Resource Management (see Legislation above). The National Directorate for
Environmental Quality is responsible establishing standards with regard to levels of
pollutants in the environment. The Coastal Zone Unit has an advisory role and is currently
drawing up an integrated coastal zone management plan for Mozambique, through an
inter-institutional committee - SAFMAR (see below) is represented on this committee.
THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
Caminhos de Ferro de Mo,ambique, National Service for Maritime Administration and
Enforcement (SAFMAR), National Institute for Hydrography & Navigation (INAHINA) and
EMODRAGA fall under the Ministry of Transport and Communications (see Organogram).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         106



Environmental Audit and Management Plan tor tne Hail ana e-on r'estructunng 1-roject
|Ministerm
{ Vice MinisterLlI
General Secretary                   State Secretary for CiviIAviation
Administration
Marine         Civil         Road              Planning      Finance &         International
Affairs        Aviatn       Transport                        Investment        Relations
1NHAHINA                                                                      Human Resources
NAUTICAL SCHOOL                                 TDM-EP
TTA-EE
INAV                                            CDM-EP
- NAVIQUE-EE
INAM                                              D GjE
| INAM        >          .         | ~~EMODRAGA-EP          lI.I
AIRPORT Co.EE
SAFMAR                                          TMI
GAPROMAR                                        LAM-EE
FIGURE 30. ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Impacto, PrDjectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                               107



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Caminhos de Ferro de Mo,ambique
In January 1995, CFM (Empresa de Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Mo,ambique) was
established as a public company, as a collective person under public law, with its own
legal status and administrative and patrimonial autonomy.
The document published in the official gazette, the "Boletim da Republica", First Series,
NO 36 of 13 September 1994, stresses the important role of CFM in developing the
national and regional economies, in raising money, both in local and foreign currencies, in
the rail transport of people and goods, and in the handling of cargo.
The CFM management bodies are: the Board of Management (CA) and the Fiscal
Council. The CA consists of seven members, one of whom is the chairman. The chairman
of the CA is appointed by the Council of Ministers, while the others are appointed by the
Ministry of Transport and Communications. One is proposed by the Ministry of Finances,
one is an elected representative of the workforce and the other four are proposed to the
Ministry of Transports by the chairman of the CA.
The CA draws up CFM management policies, discusses and votes on plans of activity, as
well as the balance sheets and accounts of the previous year, which it then submits to a
higher appreciation; it also discusses and votes on norms. Co-ordinating the entire activity
of the company, giving top level guidance to its services, and managing everything
concerned with it are also tasks of the CA. It is part of the CA's sphere of competence to
appoint and dismiss Executive Directors and their assistants, to decide on opening or
closing commercial offices abroad, as well as appointing and dismissing commercial
representatives.
The current organisation chart of CFM is shown in Figure below.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         105



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rafl ana Port kestructunng F-rojec,
ADMINISTRATION COUNCIL                       HUMAN RESOURCES SERV'ICES
FINANCIAL SERVICES|
COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT
PROCUREMENT DEPARTMENT
INFORMATION DEPARTMENT |
| xecutive Department    ||Executive Department ||Executive Deatent         Eeptv  eartmen
CFM-SUL                      CFM-Centro      |      |CFM-Norte               CFM-Zambezia ..-
|PRailway          t      Railway        Port    |Railway        [          Riway
FIGURE 31. CFM ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                        109



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Restructuring of CFM - Institutional Mechanisms for Environmental Management
Under the restructuring programme CFM will be transformed into a holding company.
Based on negotiations CFM will enter into a contractual agreement with private sector
companies or consortia (concessionaires) who will operate components of CFM's current
operations for a concessionary period. An Independent Authority will be created to
oversee CFM's management and operations to ensure that CFM is performing in the
public interest. Importantly, the Independent Authority should be constituted legally with
powers to take actions where necessary.
Ministry of Transport
and Communications
Independent
dAuthority s  
Mo ,ambique
|Figure 32. Highly Simplified Organizational Plan of the Restructured CFM       
Concessionaires operating components of CFMs operations
There are few environmental considerations incorporated into CFM's current operations. da
The challenge will be to ensure that environmental management and protection is-:
achieved following restructuring.
This could be promoted at several levels:
1. The Terms of Reference of the Independent Authority should include the authority to
monitor and evaluate the environmental performance of CFM and its concessionaires.
i)    An "environment unit" could be constituted within the I.A. specifically to deal
with environmental issues.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         110



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Hestructnng Iroject
2. The CFM should monitor it's own environmental performance as well as the
performance of concessionaires through the already established environmental unit.
The latter unit is weak and needs to be strengthened (see Tertiary Ports report).
3. Inclusion of contractual clauses in concessionary contracts between CFM and
concessionaires that specify compliance with environmental legislation and
regulations.
4. Individual concessionaires should establish and implement company policy with regard
to compliance with environmental legislation and regulations, environmental
management and protection and worker health and safety.
5. Notwithstanding the internal regulatory mechanism agencies such as SAFMAR and
MICOA, statuatory authority should exist to control and enforce compliance with
existing legislation and regulations for both CFM and the concession companies.
National Service for Maritime Administration and Enforcement (Servico Nacional de
Administrarao e Fiscalizario Maritima - SAFMAR).
The institution responsible for maritime administration and enforcement in Mozambique is
the National Service for Maritime Administration and Enforcement (Servi,o Nacional de
Administra,ao e Fiscaliza,co Maritima - SAFMAR).
This institution was legally constituted in 1994 but has only been functioning effectively for
the past two years and only with any effect in Maputo.
SAFMAR must supervise vessel navigation in Mozambican and International waters. It
also controls security matters and pollution generating activities in the marine
environment.
SAFMAR has under its jurisdiction the former maritime administrations and delegations.
Those institutions were under the regulation of the Regulamento Geral das Capitanias,
from 1919. SAFMAR is at present updating these regulations.
By law, SAFMAR must ensure the following:
- Navigability and security conditions for international and national vessels
- Control of maritime crimes
- Promote and co-ordinate actions for the prevention and combat of marine pollution
- Control maritime, coastal and port signalling
- Promote the implementation and knowledge of maritime legislation in the country
- Supervise the application of maritime work procedures
Due to lack of operational and technical support, SAFMAR is unable to carry out
effectively the above mentioned tasks. SAFMAR has recently requested funding for the
operational means for coastal enforcement (boats, airplanes, communication)
There are still problems of co-ordination with other sectors. The Technical Council
included in SAFMAR statutory regulations is not functioning.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      111



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
There is still some lack of definition between the different areas of activity of maritime and
port administrations related to marine pollution control. For instance, supervision of cargo
storage in the ships belongs to port authorities although it is connected to navigation
security.
Although SAFMAR is defined as the entity responsible for the "promotion and co-
ordination of actions for marine pollution prevention and control" it is not clear through
which institutions and at what level this co-ordination may happen. For instance upstream
river pollution: how does it influence in the accumulation of toxic wastes in marine waters?
Terrestrial pollution affecting the marine environment is not subject to monitoring and
control.
SAFMAR only supervises pollution caused by marine accidents in the areas close to the
ports.
There is no up-dated code for the classification of toxic wastes in Mozambique and
MARPOL has not been signed.
One of SAFMAR tasks is the dissemination of international legislation in Mozambique.
However, not all the international conventions and treaties already signed have been
published in the Government Gazette ( Boletim da Republica).
National Institute for Hydrography and Navigation (INAHINA)
Subordinated to the Ministry of Transport and Communications INAHINA was created in
1994, to carry out technical and scientific activities to ensure navigation safety and give
support to marine research.
INAHINA is responsible for the following activities:
Hydrography - educational activities and capacity building. Surveys are being currently
carried out in Quelimane, Maputo and Beira Ports.
Maritime Signalling - the main objective is to give capacity to the ports for 24hr signaling
and reduce the waiting time of the ships. The main constraint is the existence of only boat
to install buoys and signals.
Lighthouse rehabilitation - this is very advanced although the solar units are often
frequently stolen.
Oceanography - there is only one oceanographer with INAHINA. The first task is
updating tide and marine current tables as the ones in use were made in colonial times.
INAHINA does not carry out environmental activities although they may give support to
other institutions (e.g., water sample collection for the Ministry of Health, bathymetric
information etc.).
However, there is no integrated view of the consequences of dredging to shoreline
integrity. Under the statuary regulations this task belong to INAHINA.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         112



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restrcturing Project
There are problems of co-ordination with MICOA. According to INAHINA, MICOA
should define environmental policies that have to be designed by the coastal
management Unit.
EMODRAGA (Empresa Mogambicana de Dragagem)
EMODRAGA is an independent company created in 1994 and under the supervision of
the Ministry of Transport and Communications to carry out dredging operations (Figure
33).
| BOARD     l
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|     VEXECUTE DIRECTOR
HEAD OFFICE
PRODUCTION                 MAINTENANCE               ADMINISTRATION
|    DIVISION  |      L    DIVISION      |        L   DIVISION
DREDGING                    NAVAL FLEET
DEPARTMENT                   DEPARTMENT             ACCOUNTANT
DEPARTMENT       AND) FINANICE
DEPAT
HYDROGRAPHIC                 AUX. EQUIPMENT AND     _____
DEPARTMENT                    INFRASTRUCTURE         MAN POWER
DEPARTMENT              AND
TRAINING
BRANCH OFFICE
MAPUTO
Figure 33. EMODRAGA ORGANIZATION CHART



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Tasks:
- Maintenance dredging in channels of ports, ports and quays
- Active dredging to increase depth and width of access channels to ports
- Production of sand for construction. Participation in hydraulic works in ports
At present there are no environmental guidelines for dredging and disposal of dredged
materials. According to INAHINA's statutes there is an obligation for consultation prior to
dredging activities ( ..."INAHINA must be consulted about dredging activities, hydraulic
works and other activities that can result in alterations of the hydrographic regime").
However, this consultation rarely occurs. In any event, EMODRAGA statutory regulations
lack this obligation.
Legal and Institutional Issues, Concerns and Recommendations
General
Mozambique possesses a wide array of legislative diplomas, decrees and regulations
related to environmental management and protection. In addition, Mozambique has
acceded to several international conventions. However, the enforcement capacity to
ensure that these public and private sectors comply with existing legislation is weak.
The Framework Environmental Law is a broad law covering all aspects of environmental
protection. Specific regulations are currently being implemented within the Law.
Nevertheless, it is incumbent on the various line ministries to review and where necessary
revises sectoral poiicies, plans, operations and regulations to ensure that these are in
conformance with the Emvironmental Law.
In general, institutions in Mozambique lack operational capacity to carry out effective
environmental management, control and enforcement. In addition, there is a lack of formal
co-ordination between institutions although there are good ('ad hoc") relations between
CFM, SAFMAR, INAHINA and MICOA. These institutions require improved co-ordination
according to their different responsibilities. SAFMAR's Technical Council must become
more effective.
Dredging is carried out by EMODRAGA, however there is no national policy and
guidelines for dredging in Mozambique. Control of dredging and the calibration of dredge
volume recording instruments is the domain of INAHINA; control is weak/non-existent..
SAFMAR is responsible for oil spill control. However, there is no oil spill contingency plan.
Elaboration of a contingency plan with mapping of ecologically sensitive areas should be
carried out.
/mpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         114



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
CFM does not have a specific policy related to environmental protecteion,
compilance with existing legislation and regulations and workers safety and
health.
Recommendation:
CFM must formulate a policy clearly stating its commitment to environmental protection,
compliance with environmental legislation, regulations and international conventions and
workers safety and health taking its lead from National Environmental Management
Programme.
Port, harbour and railway regulations are out of date and fail to address
adequately environmental management and protection, workers healthy and
safety and emergency situations.
Recommendations:
1. CFM must review, revise and update port, harbour and railway regulations to ensure
that they adequately address environmental protection, workers health and safety
and emergency situations.
2. CFM must up-date and reformulate the Employees Safety and Health Document and
ensure that workers are fully cognisant of safety and health procedures.
disseminated through an awareness programme.
3. CFM must formulate an Operation Emergency Response manual and establish
procedures for implementing measures to deal with emergency responses.
Institutional arrangements and mechanisms to ensure compliance with
environmental legislation and regulations and environmental protection in
the restructured port and authorities are not yet identifed.
Recommendations:
Institutional mechanisms to ensure compliance with environmental legislation and
regulations and environmental protection need to be identified. These may include:
Conferring regulatory powers on the Independent Authority to ensure that environmental
considerations are incorporated in the operations of CFM and concessionaires;
Carrying out environmental monitoring and evaluation by CFM and concessionaires;
Inclusion of contractual obligations between CFM and concessionaires that specify the
requirement for concessionaires to comply with existing and future environmental
legislation and regulations and to carry out environmental audits and remediation as
required.
There is a lack of co-ordination between institutions with regards to
environmental planning, control and enforcement.
Recommendations:
Review of institutional roles, competencies and jurisdictional authorities with specula
reference to CFM, SAFMAR, INAHINA, EMODRAGA and MICOA.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                   115



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Establish a mechanism for inter-institutional co-ordination to ensure that environmental
considerations are incorporated into CFMs/Concessionaires planning and operation.
Ensure effective functioning of SAFMAR's Technical Committee.
In general, institutions lack operational capacity to carry out effective
evironmental management,control and enforcement.
Recommendations:
Formulate a strategy for human resources development and institutional strengthening
Specifically, reviewing the role of the environmental unit currently established within
CFM and providing the necessary support for the unit to become fully functional
Provision of support for SAFMAR to ensure operational capacity for permanent and       -
regular control and enforcement
Dredging is carried out by EMODRAGA however there is no national policy
with respect to dredging in Mozambique or control over dredging activities.
Recommendations:
Formulation of a national dredging policy with respect to dredging activities and licensing
procedures.
Establishment of environmental guidelines for dredging.
Establish a mechanims for inter-institutional co-ordination of the routine dredging
operations with CFM, EMODRAGA, INAHINA, SAFMAR and MICOA.
Recommendation:
Formulation of a national oil spill contingency plan including with mapping of ecologically
sensitive areas should be carried out.
Recommendation:
A comprehensive list according to categories of hazardous and toxic materials based on
the those classified by national institutes (specifically the National Institute of Agronomic
Research, the National Institute for Quality Control, the Ministry of Health and MICOA)
and national agencies such as the International Maritime Authority and the World Health
Organization must be drawn up and published.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                   116



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
D-iAUETNVIR  ANLATAN-WRKER                                             TI
;.AN D+SA ETYkCON~C?ERNS AT WE PORT S-AR YO.U. U RS vAN ;
The present chapter presents the findings of an environmental audit of facilities and
activities at four ports and three rail corridors.
The study identifies the following:
. Actual and potential environmental impacts associated with current activities and
facilities at the ports and railway corridors.
*  Mitigation and remediation measures together with costs.
*  Institutional and monitoring responsibilities.
* Contingency plans.
*  Dredging plans.
The chapter deals with dredging (section 5.1.), general operations (section 5.2.), waste
management practices (section 5.3.), and activities related to rail corridors (sectior, 5.4.).
First, for each of these sections a detailed description of infrastructures and operations is
presented on a port by port basis. Second, general concerns and recommendations
relating to negative environmental impacts are presented. And third, concluding summary
tables identifying impacts, mitigations, responsibilities, costs and monitoring institutions  o
are provided for both current and future operations at the ports and rail corridors.
Recommendations concerning dredging and contingency plans are presented in the text
and not in summary table form.
The following government ministries and Institutes, and other organisations have various
capacities, relevant monitoring responsibilities and mandates, and are included in the
summary tables that follow.
MICOA: Environment Ministry (environmental pollution)
DNQA: National Directorate of Environmental Inspection (environmental audits)
MOP: Ministry of Public Works (sewage)
DNA: Water Affairs (ground water contamination)
MAP: Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
DNFFB: Parks and Wildlife (mangroves & natural resources)
IIP: Fisheries Research (fisheries)
INID: National Institute of Agricultural Research (soil analysis)
MISAU: Ministry of Health (bacterial and heavy metal analyses)
MIREME: Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (radioactivity testing)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         117



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restauctunng Project
DNCH: National Directorate of Coal and Hydrocarbons (coal and oil pollution)
ENH: National Enterprise for Hydrocarbons
SAFMAR: Marine services (marine pollution)
INNO: National Institute of Quality and Norms (standards)
5.1. DREDGING
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
All current dredging activities are performed by EMODRAGA on request from the different
port authorities. Current dredging operations are limited to Maputo, Beira and Quelimane
access channels and also the tertiary port of Mocimboa da Praia.
A National Environmental Plan for dredging and site disposal activities is needed as a
guide to the opening and maintenance operations in sound and sustainable way.
Currently, dredging and spoil disposal is being conducted without knowledge of the
coastal dynamics and estuarine ecology. This is a particularly sensitive matter, in cities
like Beira, which suffer from severe coastal erosion.
Beira Port is the only site for which an EIA was carried out in this context.
A co-ordination program to monitor possible environmental effects is essential for all ports.
Maputo Port 
Present practices
There is a natural deep-water channel (c. 17m) in the narrows at the mouth of the Espirito
Santo estuary adjacent to the Maputo port facilities. The dredged channel (Canal da
Polana), which runs from the mouth of the river in an E-NE direction to the open water of
Maputo Bay, has a design depth of 9.4m and was dredged to this depth in 1991.
Maintenance dredging is being carried out to sustain the depth of this channel and the
port areas of Maputo and Matola.
The coastal process of greatest concern is the rapid erosion of the sandy coast of the
Costa do Sol running NE from Maputo. The Polana Channel runs almost parallel to, and
2km distant from, the Costa do Sol, and it is possible that beach material is migrating
seawards to replace the material dredged from the channel. This stretch of coastline may
also be in the process of re-profiling due to recent change in the course of the channel of
the Espirito Santo estuary to the north.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         118



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Another factor influencing the sedimentation process is the construction of dams on the
upper Espirito Santo estuary some years ago. They are expected to have the effect of
reducing the contribution of riparian sediments to the coastal system.
The loss of mangroves in the Espirito Santo estuary could be causing reduced entrapment
of fine deposits with consequent increased sedimentation in the port and channel areas.
Whilst the mangroves on the south side of the estuary remain largely intact, those on the
north side were virtually all cut down for fuelwood during the civil war.
Within a dynamic coastal system, selection of the dredged spoil disposal sites can also
affect the frequency required for maintenance dredging. Spoil from Maputo port is
supposed to be disposed of in a relatively deep (20m) part of Maputo Bay to the west of
Baixo Capitania. The selection of a deep spoil disposal site is appropriate for heavy spoils
including gravels and stones. However, the disposal of fine sediments to a deep site will
simply lead to their re-suspension and migration inshore to the channel areas from which
they have been dredged. A shallower disposal site might be more appropriate for fine
sediments to encourage their rapid settlement and incorporation into the bed material.
This practice is however, obviously counterproductive as it must lead to a need for
dredging on a more frequent basis. Selection of a land disposal site is a better alternative.
General Concerns and recommendations
Dredging and spoil disposal is being conducted without adequate knowledge of
the dynamics of coastal sedimentation process and its role in estuarine
ecosystem processes.
Recommendations:
1. A Plan for Dredging in Maputo Bay must be formulated preceded by specific studies to
evaluate the following items:
2. The influence of the potential changes of the main river flow and the possible reduction
of river sediments (mainly on the Incomati and Umbeluzi rivers)
3. The possible interference of dredging with present erosion trends in the northeastern
part of the Bay
4. Maintenance dredging must be readapted in conformity with this future Plan
5. Any deepening of the present dredged channels or opening of new channels will need
to be preceded by environmental impact assessments and studies of sedimentation
dynamics in the Port and Maputo Bay.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        119



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Dredging activities can be affecting seagrass meadows and other biologically
valuable marine habitats
Recommendation:
1. The evaluation of this impact should be covered by the already mentioned Plan.
Mangrove depletion within the estuary is affecting sedimentation rates and
increasing the need for maintenance dredging.
Recommendations:
1. Mangroves in Maputo Bay should be declared a protected environment.
2. Actions to replant mangroves in specific areas (especially on the northern side of the
Bay) should be considered.
Dredging spoil are currently disposed along the western margins of Baia da
Capitania where fine sediments can be easily resuispended and migrate to the
channel areas from which they have just been dredged.
Recommendations:
1. The selection of a spoil disposal site must be carefully reconsidered within the scope of
the proposed Dredging Plan
2. The possibility for using the dredged material to rehabilitate ecosystems or to help
erosion control must be considered
Possibility of sediments near Maputo and Matola ports presenting significant
levels of chemical contamination.
Recommendations:
1. Elaborate a monitoring plan to control levels of pollution inside the Bay
2. Conduct an EIA to quantify existing pollution levels
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        120



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Recommendation:
1. Reinforcement of EMODRAGA through improved maintenance or by incre The size
of the dredging fleet.
Impacto. Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                           <:1



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnrcturing Project
..-mangrovs                        4    Deep Site
_________ -__ -__ -                                       disposal
Increased                        -         -
II  sedimentation                Re-deposition of fine
rates                      sediments in the
dredged channels
IGreater frequency of dredging
Figure 34. Relations between environmental features and a greater need for
dredging along the access channels
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                   122



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnucturing Project
Beira Port
Present practices
Tetra Co, Lda and the Overseas Shipbuilding Cooperation Center carried out an
environmental engineering study for Beira Port. A study of water quality and seabed
materials was conducted. The overall conclusion was that the improvement and
maintenance of the access channel of Beira Port "would not generate any significant
damaging impact to the environment in Beira".
Under natural conditions the geometry of the studied area is more or less in a state of
dynamic equilibrium showing seasonal changes which are slow and gradual over longer
time scales. The natural depths in the various ebb and flood channels through the Sofala
bank severely restrict navigation to and from Beira Port. Therefore, artificial deepening of
the Macuti Channel was performed in the period 1967 - 1968 to a depth of 6 m below
Chart datum.
Up until 1974 maintenance dredging was routinely performed. Actual removed
maintenance dredging quantities in m  in situ are unknown. Channel maintenance
dredging was virtually suspended after 1974. The latest 1981/19982 sounding data
revealed a "high" spot of 4.9 m below Chart Datum in the Macuti Cut and considerable
sedimentation build up in the Franquia areas. Furthermore, changes in the bottom
configuration at the Macuti shoals and local sedimentation in the inner harbour area were
found.
Considering that over the last 8 years, no significant maintenance dredging was carried
out, the overall impression of the channels and shoals in the area is that they can be  :
considered relatively stable.
The major bottleneck of Beira Port has long been recognised because of its shallow
approach channel with serious levels of siltation all the time. Therefore the need for
regular dredging to maintain required navigation depths constitutes a serious concern for
the environment since substantial siltation occurs requiring regular dredging of
considerable volumes of sediment.
General Concerns and recommendations
Although the approach channel is under serious sedimentation no significant
maintenance dredging was carried out during the last 8 years
Recommendation:
1. To reinstall local capacities for dredging maintenance
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      123



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Although there is a study for maintaining and improving the access channel a
more holistic assessment is needed to determine the ecological implications of
dredging activities.
Recommendation:
1. To formulate an environmental plan for dredging Beira Estuary
There are signs of significant changes in the bottom configuration at the Macuti
shoals and local sedimentation in the inner harbour area.
Recommendation:
1. Elaborate a monitoring plan to control sedimentation rates and dynamics along the
estuary
2. EIA of proposed control measures that arise from results of monitoring programme.
The existing dredging fleet is partially obsolete and far below the required
capacity to maintain the channel at the required original design depth
Recommendation:
1. Reinforce the material and financial capacity of EMODRAGA
Quelimane Portr
Current practices
Regular dredging must be performed with the objective of maintaining required depth and
width and to ensure safe access for large vessels. Some critical areas of the port of
Quelimane are too shallow, because no maintenance dredging has occurred over the past
five years. The heavy sedimentation, resulting from the lack of dredging has resulted in
the turning basin in front of the quay getting too shallow and the vessels, when tuming,
get stuck or regularly touch the ground.
There is no knowledge of the environmental constraints associated with the physical and
chemical characters of the sediments and the dynamics of siltation processes.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      124



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
The proximity of sensitive systems such as mangroves and estuarine ecosystems that are
under significant human pressure should be studied.
General Concerns and recommendations
There is no environmental plan for dredging and disposal sites in the Bon|
Sinais Estuary.I
Recommendation:
1.To formulate an Environmental Plan for dredging activities and disposal sites along the
Bons Sinais estuary
No maintenance dredging has been performed over the past five years
Recommendation:
1. EMODRAGA local capacity should be reinforced
Mangroves and other estuarine ecosystems are under significant pressure
...
Recommendation:
1. Provincial MICOA representatives should introduce special conservation measures
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          125



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
CONCLUSIONS
Historically, the dredging of Mozambique's major Ports has been conducted by the state-
owned enterprise EMODRAGA without explicit environmental guidelines and this practice
may have resulted in a range of negative impacts. Conducting the EIA is necessary to
establish the true extent of these potential impacts. For example, at the Maputo Port alone
potential mitigation measures include selection of spoil disposal sites, impact on sensitive
habitats (seagrass meadows & mangroves), and disposal of already polluted dredging
spoil.
To continue routine dredging without due consideration of ecosystem processes does not
make good economic sense. Consider, for example, the following hypothetical scenarios.
Scenario I
1. Maputo Bay currently experiences rapid accumulation of silt because of the destruction
of mangroves in the vicinity of the Port.
2. Consequently, the channel to the Port requires maintenance dredging every 3 months.
3. Dredged spoil is disposed of at sea 3-5Km from the dredged channel.
4. Dredged spoil migrates back to the channel as a consequence wind, waves, currents
and other processes. This has a positive feedback effect on dredging frequency.
5. Over time, dredging frequency will continue to increase.
Scenario 2
1. Initiate a program to restore the mangroves in the vicinity of the Port.
2. Over time the mangroves will increase their capacity to trap siltation input from rivers.
3. Disposal of dredge spoil at a land site will further reduce the rate of re-siltation of
shipping channels.
4. Over time, dredging frequency as well as cost should steadily decrease.
From a long-term perspective, scenario 2 is more environmentally friendly and makes
much more economic sense than scenario 1. By making a substantial initial investment in
mangrove rehabilitation and the creation of a land site for dredge disposal CFM will
actually save money by not having to carry out frequent dredging at Maputo Port. Similar
arguments can be applied for the other two major Ports (and the tertiary Port, Mocimboa
da Praia) where routine dredging is also required.
Consequently, we are recommending that CFM commission the drawing up of a National
environmental plan for dredging and the identification of a suitable land site for the
disposal of dredge spoil. This would then become part of the contractual agreement
between CFM, EMODRAGA and concessionaires.
Impacto, Prmjectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        126



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
A second complementary monitoring component would require co-ordination between
SAFMAR, EMODRAGA, the Environmental Unit at CFM, and MICOA to monitor and
quantify negative environmental impacts of future dredging activities.
An outline for dredging including all relevant environmental considerations is presented in
chapter 6 section 6.1 1.
COSTING
Preparation of a National Environmental Plan for Dredging (including the identification of
suitable land sites for the disposal of dredge spoil):
US$50000
5.2. THE TRANSPORT, HANDLING AND STORAGE OF GENERAL
CARGO AND RAW MATERIALS AT MOZAMBICAN PORTS
Maputo and Matola Ports
Dischargelcharge and storage of raw materials and products
The coal loading facility at Maputo was originally designed as a ships bunkering station
consisting of a large steel structure to raise rail wagons above dock height for direct
discharge to fuel bunkers on board ship. The loading rate is extremely slow and the
equipment impractical to maintain to any degree of reliability.
The Maputo coal loading facility is outdated and lacks any significant form of dust control.
At the citrus terminal, unloading is undertaken at the rail sidings within the terminal. The
citrus terminal suffers from faulty and badly maintained equipment. The emissions of
ammonia vapour are unacceptable, there are insufficient safety equipment and a
requirement for the recycling of fork lift/acid batteries which are dumped on site.
The Matola Coal Terminal, currently on lease to a South African Company, has poor
loading and handling facilities with inadequate dust control. The coal terminal is not
equipped for dust containment. Onshore winds can carry coal dust. This not only poses a
problem for workers on site but also for contamination in adjacent areas such as the oil
and grain terminals. The CFM-Sul quarry is used as a source of ballast for the railways.
There is no dust control and constitutes a potential source of air pollution.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       127



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
Container and general cargo handling
In the container, steel and granite facilities, transport, loading and stacking facilities are
inadequate and represent a risk for port workers and pedestrians.
Containers are shipped to the container bay, where they are unloaded to trucks by the
recipient. Containers do not leave the port premises. A variety of materials are transported
in containers, notably granite and steel which are transported in large quantities.
There are no formal arrangements for environmentally safe management in this area and
the safety of workers is a major concern. For example, port operations staff are not aware
of which goods are hazardous. Asbestos was, until recently, not recognised as a
hazardous material. No protective clothing or respirators are used when handling
asbestos.
No cargo has been rejected on the basis of its potential hazard. Radioactive materials
have been imported from RSA without the port authorities having the necessary
information.
The "cabotage" or coastal shipping terminal is well organised and managed, with good
employee safety and health controls. However, there is a lack of oil separators in site
drains, oil leakage onto asphalt surfaces and poor electrical fittings on the quayside.
Tanks
At the Matola Oil terminal, the jetty is derelict and used only for vegetable oil. There are no
means of containing spilt oil, no absorbent materials available, and no fire-fighting or life-
saving equipment.
The condition of the oil discharge facility at the coal terminal is similarly poor and
considered unacceptable because:
- The pipeline is not physically protected against damage from vehicles, ships or other
operating equipment.
- There are no loading arms nor slops receipt facilities
- There is no oil pollution prevention or clean-up equipment, and the coal dust
emissions are reported to contaminate the oil terminal.
The tank farm can be a source of pollution due to leakage of diesel and fuel oil from the
underground Petromoc pipelines linking the farm and the jetties. One or more oil
companies bury sludge on-site and concrete it over creating land contamination and
ground water pollution. Slops tank discharge of oil-contaminated drainage water from the
tank farm is covering the mud flats and the mangrove trees.
The diesel workshop has a large tank for the storage of waste lubricating oil that is sold to
local foundries. A rail tank car also provides additional storage capacity. However, the
surface water drains in and around the diesel workshop are literally flowing with waste oil.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          128



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
These drains flow to a large underground tank originally designed as an oil interceptor or
waste separator. However, its contents are now pumped into the storm water drains that
flow directly to the sea.
The large diesel fuel tanks are bunded, but the amount of oil spill indicates leakage and
probable valve maintenance problems. The lubricating oil storage tanks are not bunded,
but these are not yet causing any pollution problem.
Bunkering in the Caltex tank is uncertain. Leaks in the underground pipe between the port
and the tank are possible but there is no confirmation. All the bunker point covers are
missing; some of the bunker points have small leaks.
These facilities are inadequate and outdated for the handling of bunkering oil and other
petroleum products. The resultant oil pollution is affecting the regeneration of mangroves
in parts of the river near Matola.
Hazardous Waste
Of greatest concern is the generation of hazardous waste products. It is likely that the
import of petroleum products and the repair facilities at the port generate oils and other
potentially hazardous chemicals. It is unlikely that these materials are generated in
significant quantities. However, their presence may cause environmental risk.
The general cargo port handles a variety of goods; some of which are hazardous.
In addition, the handling and potential spillage of these materials is of grave concern from
a human and environmental health risk perspective. Of the general cargo commonly       -.-
handled in the port, the following materials are of the greatest concern:
- asbestos
-  fertilisers
- caustic soda
- liquid soap constituents
The industrial facilities adjacent to Matola Port are likely to produce significant quantities
of general and hazardous waste. Any wastes that are generated will be associated with
leakage or spillage of imported materials, most notably liquid products such as vegetable
oils and fuels. In addition, oil spillage associated with repairs could cause a significant
environmental hazard.
While the current risk is to workers and adjacent environments, the uncontrolled import of
hazardous materials is of concern to Mozambique in general.
The haphazard storage of wastes, the storage of cargo materials in unbunded areas and
the uncontrolled disposal of wastes will cause the contamination of land resources. The
contamination of land directly adjacent to mangroves is of greatest concern. The storage
of certain materials (most specifically coal) creates the possibility for spontaneous
combustion, especially since these materials are stored unprotected in -an open
environment.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          129



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Environmental and Health Risks
The marine environment may be contaminated through:
- leachate and uncontrolled surface water flow from the storage of coal, iron and
molasses in unbunded areas;
-  raw sewage entering the system  through sub-surface pipelines designed for this
purpose;
-  spillage of oil, petroleum products and the like;
-  the clearing of bilges from ships.
Port facilities at Maputo and Matola are clearly inadequate. They lack fire fighting and fire
alarm systems, electrical installations are in disrepair, life saving and first aid facilities are
almost non-existent, storage and treatment facilities for pollutants are antiquated, and
surface drainage facilities are poor.
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~
M Land
O il spillage 
Raw sewage              m    r           ts
L,eachingauncontrolled  s     A       M                               from1ships
surface water flow//\ 
Magoves |lySea
|Figure 35. Possible sources of marine and mangrove contaminants
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                               130



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Beira Port
Discharge, charge and storage of raw materials and products
Cargo handling time is calculated based on the arrival and departure time of calling ships
recorded by CFM-Centro. Tankers for example take, on average, 21 hours to discharge oil
products.
Bulk carriers need much more time for loading and unloading cargo where the average
handling time of the ships of less than 1 Om and greater than 1 Om draft area are 159 hours
and 250 hours respectively (equivalent to 6,6 and 10,4 days).
Remarkable features of cargoes handled at Beira Port are summarised as follows:
-  Most of the cargo handled is international traffic. The domestic cargo by cabotage
accounts for only 2% of total cargo.
- Transit cargo is predominant and takes up more than 80% of total cargo handled at the
Port. Most transit cargo is to and from Zimbabwe.
-  More than 50% of the total cargo consists of oil products
Charging and discharging is a common procedure that can constitute a risk for the
environment if precautions are not taken during the process. Knowing that 50% of the
cargo handled at Beira Port consist of oil products, this constitutes a serious potential
environmental risk.
It is unknown whether the coal storage area is bunded, however, on the basis of the site
visits to Maputo and Quelimane, this is unlikely. Therefore, there is the possibility of
contamination to groundwater and consequently the marine environment.
Container and general cargo handling
Containers are loaded and unloaded in the container terminal by gantry cranes alongside
Quays 2 to 5 and are moved to the container yard by tug master or chassis.
For transferring containers to railway wagons, the rail mounted transfer crane located at
the railway terminal in the container yard is used. In the container yard and the container
freight warehouse, forklifts of adequate lifting capacity handle containers. The container
yard has a sufficient area to stack empty and laden containers.
* Electric cranes alongside the quay and mobile cranes are utilised for loading and
unloading cargoes. Bulk cargoes transported alongside the quays by railway wagons are
directly loaded to ships by shore-side cranes.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        131



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Tanks
Loading and unloading of petroleum products are shifted mostly from Quay 11 to Quay 12
at the new container terminal.
Petroleum products such as fuel, diesel, jet oil and petrol are discharged from tankers
berthing alongside the quay at the new Oil Terminal and transferred to the tank farm
through pipelines corresponding to each oil product.
Hazardous waste
Hazardous wastes are probably limited to oils and petroleum as by-products from the
maintenance and servicing of port facilities and the clearing of bilges. The site plan does
not indicate areas where these are stored. It is envisaged that they are allowed to seep
directly into the marine environment.
There is no indication of storm water facilities on the site, therefore any runoff will result in
all spills of oils or other hazardous materials flowing into the bay.
Environmental and health risks
As with the Port of Maputo/Matola, the marine environment may be contaminated through:
- leachate and uncontrolled surface water flow from the storage of coal in unbunded
areas;
- spillages of oils, petroleum products and the like;
- the clearing of bilges from ships.
The storage of cargo materials in unbunded areas and the uncontrolled disposal of wastes
will cause the contamination of land resources. The storage of coal creates the possibility
for spontaneous combustion, especially if these materials are stored unprotected and in
an open environment.
Nacala Port
Information regarding discharge/ charge etc. is scant and has therefore been incorporated
in the following section. On the basis of the limited information available for Nacala Port, it
is evident that the port has the facility to handle general and container cargo as well as
natural oils (palm oil). Maintenance and general repair facilities are also available at the
port.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            132



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Container and general cargo handling
There are 4 reception warehouses (1,2,3 and 4) and 3 permanent (long-term storage)
warehouses (A, B and C).
Warehouse 1 is utilised for pesticide storage (destiny - Malawi). At present it is partially
damaged and there is a strong possibility of leakage of residues through rainwater runoff
directly to the sea. Warehouse 2 is used to store general cargo for the local market.
Warehouses 3 and 4 are used for cereals in transit to Malawi.
The capacity is 15 000 tonnes per warehouse. The current methods employed in the
handling and storage of wheat causes significant dust emission. These dusts are a hazard
to human health because of the silica content (lung problems).
There are three options for handling this cargo:
-  through open containers that transport the cargo from the ship to the discharge point;
-  through claws carrying the grains to the storage area;
- through discharge by suction.
Currently transport is via pipelines and produces high levels of dust emission.
The discharge site can be an open railway wagon, a closed railway wagon or a storeroom.
If discharge and storage can be combined then dust emission levels can be lowered (e.g.
combining the suction method with direct discharge to closed storerooms). The workers
directly involved in the handling of wheat currently use protection masks. The rest of the
workers are not protected and there is a potential health risk.
Warehouse A is used for storage of fertilisers (NPK 12-24-12 and Ammonium sulphate).
Warehouse B is the port warehouse and used for cargo that stays in the port after expiry
date for collecting the cargo (28 days). Warehouse C houses cargo with documentation
problems.
Fertilisers are also stored in front of warehouses 2 and 3. NPK and ammonium sulphate
are stored in bags, the majority being damaged. During the rainy season the residues are
carried to the sea by rainwater runoff.
The container terminal is organised in areas, places and numbers. The containers are
stacked in piles of two, exceptionally three.
Storage tanks
In the port area there are 9 tanks:
Fuel tank: out of use. It is currently used as a slop tank for residue cleaning. The water
from the tank is directly discharged to the sea.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                          133



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Vegetable oil tanks (Lever Brothers): tanks used to store palm oil in transit to Malawi. In
the operation there is a steam production boiler, that uses diesel, with conduits external to
the oil conduits. Additionally there is a slop tank where cleaning products of the bigger
tanks are stored. Water is eliminated by infiltration and the oils are recovered.
Capacity of the tanks: vegetable oil tank 1203m3, Slop tank 16m3.
MONAPO Industrial Company tanks (2): at present they are not used. In the past they
were used for the storage of imported raw materials.
SOCAJU tanks (4): used for the storage of cashew nut oil destined for export. This is a
highly inflammable product. Each tank has a capacity of 700 m3.
Hazardous Waste
Hazardous wastes are probably limited to oils and petroleum as by-products from the
maintenance and servicing of port facilities and the clearing of bilges.
The site plan does not indicate areas where these products are stored, therefore it is
envisaged that the materials are allowed to seep directly into the marine environment.
There is no indication of storm water facilities on the site, therefore runoff will result in any
spills, of oils or other hazardous materials, flowing into the bay.
As with the Port of Maputo/Matola, the marine environment may be contaminated through:
- spillages of oils, petroleum products and the like;
- the clearing of bilges from ships.
The storage of cargo materials in unbunded areas and the uncontrolled disposal of wastes
will cause the contamination of land resources.
Environmental and health risks
1. Ground and surface water contamination
The areas surrounding the port are paved allowing surface water (plus contaminants)
runoff to the sea. The container terminal oficina is located close to the limit of the quay.
The liquid residues are first collected in an underground tank and then eliminated.
Due to its close proximity to the sea and the overfilling of the tank there is a strong
possibility of leakage into the sea. In the rainy season, under present conditions,
contamination is almost impossible to prevent.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                            134



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2. Oil spillage
The inspectors (either from the port or the maritime administration) communicate any
spillage to the head of maritime services who must aKtend to the spill in loco. Depending
on the place where the spill took place the following institutions must act:
- Maritime administration (SAFMAR) if the spill occurred in the sea;
- CFM if the spill occurred in the port.
It should be noted that in 1996 cyclone Nadia caused a transport vessel to sink in Nacala
Bay carrying a load of 1000 tons of cement. The likelihood of salvage is non-existent.
There is high probability that diffusion of cement will cause a severe impact on the marine
environment affecting coral and other benthic marine communities.
Quelimane Port                                                              F
Container and general cargo handling
The cargo is discharged from the vessel by shore cranes or ship's gears.
After discharge, the port's tallymen check the cargo.
Damages have to be clarified with the vessel's commander to identify the cause and have
to be stated in the relevant documents. At the cargo owner's request, an independent
cargo surveyor can do the checking (e.g.SGS, Permar). Both reports are compared and
any discrepancy is clarified.
Fuel is handled in bulk. Other products such as cereals, salt, sugar, fertilisers and cement
are handled in bags. Foodstuff and high value cash crops are containerised or unitised.
The balance of inbound-outbound container movements shows that an average of 15-
20% of arriving containers disappear. The containerisation potential amounted to 9 844
tons in 1995.
Large areas of the port are not paved and the paved areas are in a poor condition. The
drainage system is not working. The poor condition of the access roads and drainage
system result in heavy dust in the dry period, thick mud in the rainy season.
Cargo handling efficiency may also be impaired, increasing the incidence of damage to
equipment and cargo. If the cargo is for example fuel or oil, this can lead to contamination
and pollution of the site and adjacent natural waters.
Hazardous waste
Bulk storage areas for raw materials such as petroleum products are unbunded, therefore
oil spills will potentially cause riverine pollution, especially since the repair areas have
channels which direct oils into the adjacent mangroves.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        135



Envirnmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Pori Restructuring Project
Coal is stored on site in an unbunded area. The coal storage heaps are also adjacent to
nearby communities and are unprotected. Despite the potential for spontaneous
combustion, the potential for fire is increased where passers by could ignite the coal
through the simple act of extinguishing or discarding a cigarette. The unbunded storage of
coal creates the potential for groundwater contamination.
Environmental and health risks
Hazards are limited to the riverine environment where spillage of oils, petroleum products
and the like and the clearing of bilge from ships will potentially cause environmental
perturbation. Coal storage is another area of environmental concern.
Health and safety risks associated with storage include the dangers associated with
spontaneous combustion and the inhalation of smoke. Inadequate storage has the
potential for groundwater contamination.
GENERAL CONCERNS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Air pollution in the form of ammonia emissions (Maputo only), dust from the
unbunded storage of coal (all ports) and wheat (Nacala only) and dust from the
CFM-Sul quarry pose risks of environmental contamination (surface and
groundwater, soil, and the marine environment) and to the health of employees.
Recommendations:
1. Repair citrus terminal facilities or replace existing equipment to mitigate against further
ammonium emissions.
2. Implement an appropriate employee safety and health policy for work in areas where air
pollution is a potential health hazard
3. Quantify the extent of existing pollution at all ports as a consequence of these activities.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        136



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnrcturing Project
All storage and transfer of petroleum  products and food oils have the
associated risks of spillage and combustion. Employee health and safety is
potentially compromised and; any spillage could result in ground, surface
water and soil pollution. The absence of adequate stormwater drains at all ports
introduces the risk of pollution to the immediate marine environment These
storage and transfer facilities are in a general state of disrepair at all four ports
Recommendations:
1. Carry out an audit on all storage tanks and pipelines for leaks and make
recommendations for repair, replacement and routine maintenance as required.
2. Quantify existing pollution levels for situations where leakage is known to have
occurred.
3. Explore the possibility of constructing stormwater drainage systems as a mitigation
measure
4. Establish emergency action protocols for major fires and explosions
5. Where petroleum by products have been used for landfill, adjacent environments
should be tested for pollution
6. A policy of remedial action regarding unacceptable existing levels of pollution should be
implemented.
No formal policy exists for the safe handling and storage of both. hazardous
waste and hazardous products. There is a risk to employee safety and health and
a risk of pollution through groundwater and soil contamination and runoff into
the immediate marine environment. The sinking of a cement tanker in Nacala Bay
is of special importance.
Recommendations:
1. Implement policies with respect to the handling and storage of all hazardous materials
notably asbestos, caustic soda, liquid soap and fertilizers.
2. Implement a separate policy for the handling of radioactive cargos.
3. Determine existing environmental impacts from known examples of spillage of
hazardous materials
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         137



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Po,! Restructuring Project
4. Recycle the acid and lead containers in discarded batteries from forklifts and other
vehicles.
5. Stormwater drains would mitigate against future contamination from hazardous
materials
6. Determine existing contamination + future potential contamination from cement carried
by the vessel currently sunk in Nacala Bay.
7. Conduct an EIA on marine communities possibly affected by this contamination.
8. Consider possible options to mitigate against any further contamination
There are no formal policies concerning worker safety for the day to day
activities occurring at the ports and harbours of Mozambique.
Recommendations:
1. Establish employee safety and health regulations for all work activities applicable
SUMMARY
Suggested recommendations and mitigation measures associated with actual and
potential impacts together with costing, institutional responsibility and monitoring
responsibility for current (Tables la-d) and future (Tables lla-d) activities at the four ports
are summarised in table form below.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           138



Environmental Audit and' M.'at_ .yjement Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table la. Maputo Port: Environmental Evaluation of Current Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT           DURATION             MITIGATION/ACTION             RESPONSIBILITY         COSTING          MONITORING
._____________            (USS)         INSTITUTION
a. conduct analysis of ammonia content
Air & Ground                      of air in the vicinity of the citrus                                         CFM, MICOA
Pollution         Long-term      terminal.                                                                   MIREME (DNCH),
b. Soil and groundwater contamination       CFM                              INID MOP (DNA) &
a. Ammonia                       testing for coal dust.                                                            INNO
b. Dust                       c. Clean up and repair if necessary
7 Soil &                        a. Test all storage tanks & pipelines for
groundwater                      leakage.                                               TotalEstimated         CFM, MICOA
contamination                 b. Conduct soil, groundwater tests                       cost                    (DNFFB & IIP)
From tanks and                c. Conduct tests on marine samples          CFM                                 MIREME, INID &
pipelines used to   Long-term     and adjacent mangroves                                   US$100000             MOP(DNA)
transport & store             d. Clean-up and restore if necessary.
petroleum                         Repair facilities
products
a. conduct soil and groundwater
Contamination                   contamination tests In the vicinity of
from hazardous    Long-term      storage facilities for hazardous
compounds                      materials and wastes.                    CFM                                  CFM, MICOA
(asbestos,fertilise           b. Conduct the same tests on samples                                             (DNFFB & IIP)
r                         from the sea & adjacent mangroves.                                          INID & MOP(DNA)
caustic soda,               c. Clean-up and restore where
liquid soap)   I    _necessary.                     .
lmpacto, Prmjectos e Estudos Ambientals - Septomiber 1998                                                                                       139



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lb. Beira Port: Environmental Evaluation of Current Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT                DURATION              MITIGATION/ACTION              RESPONSIBILITY         COSTING         MONITORING
(US$)       INSTITUTION
a. Soil and groundwater contamination
Air & Ground Pollution                 testing for coal dust.                                                       CFM, MICOA
(Coal dust)       Long-term    b. Clean up and repair if necessary           CFM                                 MIREME
(DNCH), INID
MOP (DNA) &
INNO
a. Test all storage tanks & pipelines for
Soil & groundwater                     leakage.
contamination                       b. Conduct soil, groundwater tests                                              CFM, MICOA
From tanks and                      c. Conduct tests on marine samples and        CFM           Total estimated   (DNFFB & IIP)
pipelines used to      Long-term        adjacent mangroves                                      cost               MIREME, INID &
transport & store                   d. Clean-up and restore if necessary.                                            MOP(DNA)
petroleum products                      Repair facilities                                         US$100000
a. conduct soil and groundwater
Contamination from                    contamination tests in the vicinity of
hazardous compounds   Long-term        storage facilities for hazardous                                             CFM, MICOA
(asbestos,fertiliser                  materials and wastes.                     CFM                               (DNFFB & IIP)
caustic soda, liquid              b. Conduct the same tests on samples                                                INID &
soap)                           from the sea & adjacent mangroves.                                            MOP(DNA)
c. Clean-up and restore where
necessary._..               ,                            __-              _
Impacto, Pmjectos e Estudos Ambientals - September 1998                                                                                          140
x, .  :;.   .;                .. .. :.,-.-, ....-.,.,. , ,:



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurng Project
Table Ic. Nacala Port: Environmental Evaluation of Current Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT                DURATION              MITIGATION/ACTION               RESPONSIBILITY        COSTING       | MONITORING
.__________________    _________                                      (USS)       INSTITUTION
Air & Ground Pollution               a. Test silica content of the air                                               CFM, MICOA
(silica dust)       Long-term   b. Soil and groundwater contamination           CFM                           MIREME (DNCH),
testing for silica dust.                                                  INID MOP (DNA)
c. Clean up and repair if necessary                                               & INNO
Soil & groundwater                      a. Test all storage tanks & pipelines for
*   contamination .                        leakage.                                                  Total              CFM, MICOA
From tanks and pipelines               b. Conduct soil, groundwater tests              CFM           estimated cost    (DNFFB & IIP)
used to transport & store  Long-term   c. Conduct tests on marine samples and                                         MIREME, INID &
petroleum products & store                 adjacent mangroves                                                            MOP(DNA)
vegetable oils                          d. Clean-up and restore If necessary.                          US$50000
Repair facilities
a. conduct soil and groundwater
Contamination from                     contamination tests in the vicinity of
hazardous compounds      Long-term       storage facilities for hazardous materials                                  CFM, MICOA
(pesticides & petroleum                  and wastes.                                  CFM                             (DNFFB & IIP)
products)                      b. Conduct the same tests on samples                                            MIREME; INID &
from the sea & adjacent mangroves.                                           MOP(DNA)
c. Clean-up and restore where necessary.
.                      '-.','e7r~:1



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnucturing Project
Table Id. Quelimane Port: Environmental Evaluation of Current Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT                    DURATION               MITIGATION/ACTION              RESPONSIBILITY        COSTING        MONITORING
(US$)       INSTITUTION
Air & Ground Pollution                a. Soil and groundwater contamination                                         CFM, MICOA
(coal dust)         Long-term       testing for coal dust.                      CFM                              MIREME
b. Clean up and repair if necessary                                          (DNCH), INID
MOP (DNA) &
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   IN N O
a. Test all storage tanks & pipelines for
Soil & groundwater                          leakage.
contamination From the                  b. Conduct soil, groundwater tests                          Total             CFM, MICOA
bulk handling of petroleum              c. Conduct tests on marine samples and         CFM          estimated cost  (DNFFB & IIP)
products                    Long-term       adjacent mangroves                                                        MIREME, INID
d. Clean-up and restore If necessary.                         US$50000       & MOP(DNA)
Repair facilities
a. conduct soil and groundwater
Contamination from                          contamination tests in the vicinity of
hazardous compounds         Long-term       storage facilities for hazardous                                          CFM, MICOA
( fertilisers, cement,                      materials and wastes.                      CFM                           (DNFFB & lIP)
pesticides & petroleum                  b. Conduct the same tests on samples                                              INID &
products)                                   from the sea & adjacent mangroves.                                         MOP(DNA)
c. Clean-up and restore where
necessary.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - September 1998                                                                                          142
;,,,,~~ ~   ~      ~~~~~~ a;  . ,'.'            i,^X:



Environtihental Al., . ;,id Ma,,.j:,ment Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuting Project
Table Ila. Maputo Port: Summary Environmental Assessment of Future Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT               DURATION            MITIGATION/ACTION             RESPONSIBILITY         COSTING          MONITORING
(US$)        INSTITUTION
d. Conduct routine analysis of ammonia
Air & Ground Pollution                content of air in the vicinity of the                                     CFM, MICOA
Long-term      citrus terminal.                                                             MIREME
c. Ammonia                        e. Soil and groundwater contamination  Concessionaire                         (DNCH), INID
d. Dust                              testing for coal dust.                                                     MOP (DNA) &
X _________________   __________   f.    Clean up and  repair If necessary                                          INNO
Soil & groundwater                e. Routinely test all storage tanks &
contamination                         pipelines for leakage.
From tanks and                    f.  If required, conduct soil, groundwater              Total    estimated   CFM, MICOA
pipelines used to                    tests                               Concessionaire   cost                  (DNFFB & IIP)
transport & store     Long-term   g. If required, conduct tests on marine                                       MIREME, INID
petroleum products                    samples and adjacent mangroves                           US$50000         & MOP(DNA)
h. Clean-up and restore If necessary.
Repair facilities
Contamination from               Ensure the safe storage and handling
hazardous compounds   Long-term   Of all hazardous materials                                                    CFM, MICOA
(asbestos,fertiliser            In the case of spillage, see Table la  Concessionaire                         (DNFFB & IIP)
caustic soda, liquid                                                                                           MIREME; INID
soap)                                                                                                    & MOP(DNA)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Amblentals - Septemnber 1998                                                                                      143



EnvironmentalAudit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lib. Beira Port: Summary Environmental Assessment of Future Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
DURATION              MITIGATION/ACTION              RESPONSIBILITY                         MONITORING
INSTITUTION
IMPACT                                                                                         COSTING
.___________________                                                                (U S$)
Air & GroundPollution              c.  Routine soil and groundwater                                                CFM, MICOA
(Coal dust)       Long-term       contamination testing for coal dust.  Concessionaires                          MIREME
d. Clean up and repair if necessary                                             (DNCH), INID
MOP (DNA) &
______________                   ~~INNO
e. Routinely test all storage tanks &
Soil & groundwater                     pipelines for leakage.
contamination                      f.  Conduct soil, groundwater tests                          Total estimated    CFM, MICOA
From tanks and                      g. Conduct tests on marine samples and   Concessionaires    cost                (DNFFB & IIP)
pipelines used to      Long-term       adjacent mangroves                                                          MIREME, INID &
transport & store                   h. Clean-up and restore if necessary.                          US$50000          MOP(DNA)
petroleum products                      Repair facilities
Contamination from                Ensure the safe storage and handling
hazardous compounds                 Of all hazardous materials                                                      CFM, MICOA
(asbestos,fertiliser  Long-term   In the case of spillage, see Table 2a.   Concessionaires                        (DNFFB & IIP)
caustic soda, liquid                                                                                             MIREME; INID &
soap)                                                                                                         MOP(DNA)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Anmbientats - September 1998                                                                                        144



Environmental Audit and Management Pta:} ior the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table llc. Nacala Port: Summary Environmental Assessment of Future Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT              DURATION              MITIGATION/ACTION              RESPONSIBILITY       COSTING        MONITORING
(US$)      INSTITUTION
Air Pollution                    d. Routinely test silica content of the air                                 CFM, MICOA
(silica dust)       Long-term   e. Soil and groundwater contamination    Concessionaires                      MIREME
testing for silica dust.                                                (DNCH), INID
f.  Clean up and repair if necessary                                       MOP (DNA) &
INNO
e. Routinely test all storage tanks &
Soil & groundwater                         pipelines for leakage.
contamination                          f.  If necessary, conduct soil, groundwater                     Total       CFM, MICOA
From tanks and pipelines                   tests                                Concessionaires    estimated cost  (DNFFB & IIP)
used to transport & store  Long-term   g. If necessary, conduct tests on marine                                    MIREME, INID
petroleum products & store                 samples and adjacent mangroves                           US$50000        & MOP(DNA)
vegetable oils                         h. Clean-up and restore if necessary.
Repair facilities
Contamination from                  Ensure the safe storage and handling
hazardous compounds      Long-term    Of all hazardous materials                                                 CFM, MICOA
(pesticides & petroleum               In the case of spillage, see Table 3a.  Concessionaires                    (DNFFB & IIP)
products)                                                                                                   MIREME; INID
& MOP(DNA)
.-/:'!:??M{Oj |  o'!?t::S'^S ¢ e .-ttIfrear ,f87hjr t?:.n;   .   C, SE,c? !-e  0 S  S                                                         145
%., .-::                                          .



Environmental Audit and Management Plan tor the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lid. Quelimane Port: Summary Environmental Assessment of Future Transport, Handling, & Storage of General Cargo.
IMPACT              DURATION              MITIGATION / ACTION             RESPONSIBILITY         COSTING        MONITORING
.  (US$)   INSTITUTION
Air & Ground Pollution                c. soil and groundwater contamination                                         CFM, MICOA
(coal dust)         Long-term       testing for coal dust.                Concessionaires                        MIREME
d. Clean up and repair if necessary                                          (DNCH), INID
MOP (DNA) &
a                                                                                                                         INNO
Soil & groundwater                      e. Test all storage tanks & pipelines for
contamination From the                      leakage.                                                      Total       CFM, MICOA
bulk handling of petroleum              f.  Conduct soil, groundwater tests       Concessionaires    estimated cost  (pNFFB & IIP)
products                    Long-term    g. Conduct tests on marine samples and                                       MIREME, INID
adjacent mangroves                                        US$50000        & MOP(DNA)
h. Clean-up and restore if necessary.
Repair facilities
Contamination from
hazardous compounds         Long-term    Ensure the safe storage and handling                                         CFM, MICOA
( fertilisers, cement                   Of all hazardous materials                Concessionaires                     (DNFFB & IIP)
,pesticides & petroleum                 In the case of spillage, see Table 3a.                                        MIREME; INID
products)                                                                                                             & MOP(DNA)
Impacto, Pirjeclos e Estudos Ambientlis - Seplembler 1998
e.    .. ............. ;W;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           .        ;.       -'-s*,.   . .  -,,,i






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project . _
5.3. GENERAL WASTE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES, AND
MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF STORAGE AND REPAIR
FACILITIES
The activities described in this section are relatively similar at the ports of Maputo
and Matola, Beira, Nacala and Quelimane.
In general, port facilities are hopelessly inadequate in the contexts of employee
health and safety, and basic waste management practices. The main problems
are:
Lack of adequate sites for the disposal and storage of general waste materials
generated on a day to day basis.
The disposal of solid wastes in a haphazard fashion inside the port area, or at
nearby mangrove swamps and marshes.
The pollution consequences of these management practices are ignored.
There is a general lack of stormwater drainage facilities for surface water run-off
with a concomitantly high risk of pollution through spillage of any form of
contaminant.
Fire fighting and fire alarm systems and inadequate and first aid facilities.
Employees have no training in the contexts of health, safety and how to respond
in emergency situations.
These issues are described in detail below for each of the four ports.,vWe begin
with an overall description of current waste management practices and highlight
any shortcomings in the contexts of generation, storage, transfer and transport,
recovery and disposal.
It should be noted that site visits were made only to Maputo/Matola and to
Quelimane hence, more information is available for these two ports than for Beira
and Nacala.
We then describe the day to day running of general storage and repair facilities
at the ports and highlight any shortcomings in the context of employee health and
safety, and waste management.
It should be noted that an assessment of the collection storage and disposal of
domestic sewage was beyond the scope of this part of the study. It is assumed
that ablution facilities and raw sewage and processing facilities are available.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999              147



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and-Restructuring Project
However, there are many environmental and health implications surrounding
sewage management.
These will be addressed in detail in the final proposed environmental
management plan for the ports harbours and railways currently under CFM
control.(Chapter 6).
5.3.1. WASTE MANAGEMENT, STORAGE AND DISPOSAL
| puto and Matola                                               l
Waste generated in the port is dealt with in two ways. Small quantities of
domestic type refuse are collected by municipal dustcarts and taken to the 1ann-.:! 7
site on the eastern perimeter of the city. Waste from ships, construction r*-e
and any bulky items of port waste are loaded in rail wagons and taken to t
sidings to the west of the port to be dumped near the shoreline. Occasionai, a
front-end loader is used to push this material onto the shore.
This waste disposal practice is informal and uncontrolled. The waste types _ e
mixed and there is no record of waste movements. This practice results in:
-  a range of different waste materials entering the marine ecosysten-.
some of them toxic;
- the gradual loss of coastal wetlands;
- danger to local people who pick over the rubbish;
- despoliation of the coastal landscape.
Considerable quantities of scrap are disposed in open areas and the.-    -
area is not very clearly delineated. Garbage and waste are"dispcsec
areas and part of it is burned on site.
Waste generation
In the absence of a comprehensive waste database, it is not po-,:
determine the nature and quantities of waste generated in eithe- Ma. --
Matola Ports. Therefore, general statements will be provided as o-
waste products that are produced. While the two ports have been d , --
here, it is possible that ships could clear their bilges in the port an- 
possibility for environmental hazard.
In general, it should be noted that the operation of Maputo Port is nt.
produce significant quantities of waste materials. However, given the  !:
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999



EnvironmentalAudit. and. Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
nature of port activities, it is likely that both general and hazardous wastes are
produced. With regard to the general wastes, they are probably limi ed
domestic and office wastes (commonly paper, cardboard packaging and  eKe-
and putrescible wastes, probably the result of vegetables and fruit from th-.  rLr
fruit facility.
Waste storage
Small quantities of general office wastes are stored in small metal skips   -
to the office areas. It is interesting to note that during the site visit, many -
skips were full to overflowing and in some instances were burning.
There are currently no facilities for the storage of wastes prior to trans..
disposal. Therefore, wastes would appear to be discarded haphazardly -u'  
the port. This is most obvious in Maputo port where scrap metal has sirnm  --  
discarded along the foreshore.
This haphazard "storage/disposal" of wastes leads to a general feelinc   .;
housekeeping and is visually unappealing. The scrap metal "storage" areas sr^
within the confines of the port and should, therefore, not create health
scavengers. In addition, the absence of a stormwater drainage system intt  -. :
the  risk  of surface  and  ground water contamination  as well a..
contamination.
Waste collection
There are no formal systems for the collection of most general waste p.:;
General office wastes are collected through the municipal system and disc-e-
to the east of the city (LG Mouchel & Partners, 1994).
Waste transfer/transport
As would be expected in a system where there is no formal vJaste  -:-
facility, there are no formal processes for the transfer or trar.spo-
materials. Domestic wastes are transported through the muni^ipai :sP.sn-
disposal site to the east of the city. The nature frequency of -h': a  .. ,
process remains unclear.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999



Environmental Audit and Management Plan, for the Rail and Restructuring Project
Processing/Recovery
It is unlikely that any waste products are processed further or recovered,
however, it is possible that discarded oil is removed from the site by workers and
used for personal purposes.
Waste disposal
There are no evident facilities for the disposal of waste products. The LG
Mouchel & Partners 1994 report notes that there is a disposal site approximately
2 km from the port. This site could not be visited, nor could the General Cargo
Manager (Mr Dimas) explain any details of the site's operation and management.
It is, however, likely that the site is operated in a relatively uncontrolled manner
where waste types are mixed. It is also possible that this "site" is open to the
general populace, potentially creating health risks and a danger to scavengers.
The aesthetics of the visual landscape are impaired due to the haphazard
storage and disposal of waste products. Of greatest concern are scrap metals
etc which are disposed adjacent to the foreshore.
The health risks associated with the current waste management practices are of
the greatest concern. The burning of domestic waste materials could cause
health problems.
During the site visit, it was noted that waste fruit, from the. citrus terminal, were
sold to people adjacent to the port's main entrance. This practice has the
potential to cause health problems especially since the fruit wastes could
potentially be rotten.                                        e
Beira
It is unlikely that the port generates significant quantities of general or hazardous
waste.
General wastes are likely to be limited to office wastes and it is likely that these
waste products are collected, transported and disposed of through the municipal
system. Scrap metal is likely to be "stored" on site.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                  150



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
There is no indication of stormwater drainage facilities on the site plan, therefore,
it is envisaged that runoff will result in any potential pollutants flowing straight
into the bay.
Nacala
It is unlikely that the port generates significant quantities of general or hazardous
waste. General wastes are likely to be limited to office wastes and it is likely that
these waste products are collected, transported and disposed of through the
municipal system. Scrap metal is likely to be "stored" on site.
It is probable that scrap metal and other general waste materials are either taken
by the workers or allowed to seep directly into the marine environment.
Some of this scrap can contain undiscovered live mines and grenades, this
constitute are severe threat to human life and is therefore an issue of grave
concern. All port employees must be immediately informed of this possibility and
be extremely vigilant when handling stored scrap materials.
CFm authorities must similarly ensure that these scrap store are inaccessible to
unauthorized individuals, preferably by fencing and gating these areas and
providing 24 hour security. Any discovery of mines and grenades should be
reported immediately to the the appropriate authority and under no
circumstances should they be handled by employees who discover them.
The threat to human life is clearly illustrated by a recently reported incident in
Nacala port.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais -March 1999                     151



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
ornite Regional da OMS tinha    clientes, o acesso automatico para liga,ces internacionais, e
-n vista fazer a ava1iagao da si-  uma maior disponibiliza9ao para a transmissao de dados. brem
iacao da Saude em Africa agTo-  como dos servi,os suplementares, entre outros.
no virar da pagina rumo ao        Totaimenrte auto-financiadope1aemprsa, num total de perro
'cuilo XXI, pois, como disse o  deC imi mihao e dolares, o projecto consisnu,;ualmenen
['flaT da pasta da Satide, . pre- ~diaitalizaq5o daArede de telecomunicac,es existent. atrav4s
-paqAo da organizaS o saber   ^de substituic,o da central telef6nica electromecanica p'orurnam
nova central digital, com capacidade de 320 linhas. incluindo
is sao os desafios que se tern s7`   umr novo sistema de alimenta,co de eneria.
- nfrentar neste sector no pr6-:
Hro milenio. A definiy3o des-
J desafios toma-se mais impQr-
.nle sabido que'a meta de "Sau6-  u tocin a
f para Todos no Ano 2000'^,n5o  q
i cumprido e nem vai sE-lo,    QUATRO criancas, cujas idades n5o foram especificadas, fi-
avendo,  por  isso,  que        caram gravemente feridas na manha de ontem na cidade poT-
*programar  todas  essas        Euaria de Nacala, provincia de Nampula, em consequencia da
:tividades dentro de uma pers-  explosao de uma aranada.
cntiva ainda de "Saiude para       0 incicienre ocorreu numa lixeira onde no ano passado ha-
i..os no Seculo XXI".          viam sido depositadas quantidades consideraveis de ferro ve-
"Eu creio que ao 'nivel       lho destinado a exportac,o atrav6s do porto daquela cidade.
r-~ inizativo, a OMS, e aoora      As crian,as encontram-se internadas no hospital daquela
. uma nova direccao, esta em  urbe,.onde estao a receber cuidados m6dicos intensivos.
> > :!ii,oes de contribuir para es-  Sabe-se, entretanto, que as autoridades policiais ja toMa-
ram conta da ocorrencia, estando neste momento a urabalhar
bjvo   prno sentido de apurar mais dados sobre o incidente.
'iste um comproniisso do nos-
Governo para que isso acon-     M  .                                   .
wa", segundo afirrnou ATurlio   Maputo  acolhe  cerimo'naI-
ilhao.                          de constitui~a do NUMAC
:a segunda-feira o Presidente   A CAPITALdo pais acolhe hoje a cer f'nia oficial da cons-
:arnbicano seja o orador prin-  tituic,o do Nucleo da Mulher Ac 2d6bica (NUMAC), uma or-
t1 na Conferencia Anual do    ganiz a,cao -n-aogqy am e- r  da como uma instancia de
ido Popular Nacional (PNP),   debate e accao da populagao feminina das instituicoes de en-
oder, que celebra agora o seu  sino superior e de investiLyacao de MnrPmhin- -o f-
Figure 36. "Incident in Nacala Port", extracted from a News Paper
(21st September, 1998)
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                     152



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
There is no indication of stormwater drainage facilities on the site, therefore, it is
envisaged that runoff will result in any potential pollutants, flowing into the bay.
Quelimane
There is no formal waste management plan for the Port of Quelimane.
From the site visit, it was evident that the wastes generated at the port were
limited to:
- general office wastes;
- unwanted timber;
- scrap metals; and
- discarded or spilled oils and petroleum.
Generally the waste products are crudely stored. Office wastes are stored in
bins in individual offices and transported through the municipal syste.. 'o a
municipal disposal site (it became increasingly evident during the site 's. tht
the municipal "disposal" site was merely a central, uncontrolled dump situat-E ton
the out skirts of the town).
Scrap metal and unwanted timber are simply discarded around the po- ,rr
haphazard and visually unappealing fashion. Discarded oils are either
the workers for personal use or are used for repairs on the railway ine.
5.3.2. WORKSHOP AND REPAIR FACILITIES
Maputo and Matola                                            _
General workshop areas
The BMS workshops have inadequate environmental plOt_.io - OC;U       :-
health and safety management with reference to fire ris!i, s;e>  rd  ...
notably, waste oil.
Maputo rail sidings are extensive and littered with atardG:  -    -.
rolling stock, trucks and coaches. There are a number Df aa   i-:i-.--.:
area. In particular, there has been extensive dumpino of i,wat-e and
Impacto, Projectos e Estudtos Ambientais - March 1999



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
materials including hazardous materials such as asbestos. The poor condition of
Maputo and Matola railway tracks leads to regular derailments with attendant
risks of pollution and accidents to employees.
The sleeper factory has poor standards of mechanical and electrical safety.
The diesel workshop suffers from a major fire risk through the lack of adequate
fire control equipment, water and the presence of inflammable materials.
The CFM - sul quarry which produces ballast for the railway suffers from a lack
of dust control, and the workshop and vehicle repair facilities are rudimentary and
in some cases unsafe.
Nacala
There are two general workshops at Nacala Port. One services container
terminal equipment and the other services general cargo and other port
equipment.
These workshops are used for:
-  Preventive maintenance - washings and oil change
-  General service
- Equipment repair works
As a result of the activities carried out, there are iron residues produced.
The solid residues are stored within the port area (next to Ferro velho produced
by the port), in the open air. Water, oils and other liquid residues are stored in
tanks (1000 I capacity) that are incinerated out of Nacala City.
No information was available about general workshop facilities at Beira and
Quelimane at the time of writing of this report. It assumed that the facilities here
are similar to those at Maputo and Nacala.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                  154



EnvironmentalAudit-and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
CONCERNS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
There are no formal procedures for the collection and disposal of the
myriad variety of general waste materials that accumulate as a
consequence of the diversity of port-related activities. Because waste-
related management practices are non-existent, there are currently a
range of serious potential risks to both employees and the immediate
environment.
Recommendations:
1. Formulate a waste management policy for the routine removal and disposal of
general waste material that accumulates on a day to day basis.
2. Classify general waste into different categories so that recyclable materials are
identified for sustainable re-utilisation.
3. Immediately implement a clean-up operation and quantify any existing
negative environmental impacts of past waste management practices.
4. Adjacent wetlands, mangroves, marine and riverine environments should
never be used as dumping sites for any type of waste material
5. Educate employees with respect to new CFM policies for waste management.
6. Discourage on site burning or unauthorised removal of general waste material.
Railway sidings, the foreshores adjacent to ports and harbours, and the
general working environment are littered with scrap metal and obsolete
equipment. These pose a risk to the environment, the safety of                  ,
employees as well as representing a major eyesore.
Recommendations:
1. Issue a tender for the collection and removal of all scrap metal, obsolete
vehicles, railway carts etc. for removal and recycling.
2. Make provision for future safe storage and disposal of scrap metal products.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999               155



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
3. Fence and gate all port and harbour facilities in areas where scrap may be
stored for long time periods. This will discourage the unauthorised removal of
such materials.
4. Where scrap metals have already accumulated close to any natural
environments, quantify any current potential negative environmental impacts.
General workshop areas and r epair facilities suffer from  inadequate
mechanical and electrical safety, fire protection, ventilation (especially in
paint workshops) and storage and disposal of waste oils etc. which
accumulate on a day to day basis. Furthermore, There are no
permits/regulations for the use of tools and other equipment and no
provisioning of protective clothing for employees working in these areas.
Recommendations:
1. Carry out mechanical and electrical audits in all general workshop areas;
upgrade and repair current facilities where necessary.
2. Ensure that each general workshop area is equipped with adequate fire
fighting equipment
3. Implement a permit system for operating tools and other electrical or
mechanical equipment. This will ensure that all employees possess the
necessary knowledge and understanding for the safe operation of such
equipment.
4. Ensure that employees are issued with protective clothing that is appropriate
for the jobs they are engaged in.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                 156



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Restructuring Project
Port and Harbour operations typically employ a large workforce. Ablution
facilities should be available in accordance with the size of the workforce
and should be maintained on a routine basis. Currently sewage is stored
and processed in septic tank, french drains etc. However, untreated
stored sewage represents a potential health hazard and a risk to the
environment.
Recommendations:
1. Determine what ablution facilities are currently available and ensure that they
are sufficient to cope with the needs of the current workforce at CFM ports.
2. Conduct an environmental audit of current sewage storage and disposal
procedures. This should include testing all septic tanks etc. for leakage.
3. Where leakage is suspected, groundwater and soil  testing should be
conducted to confirm or refute contamination from sewage.
4. If contamination from sewage exists, then water for human consumption
should also be tested.
5. Where necessary, remedial action should be taken.
6. Environmental audits with respect to adequate sewage containment and
processing should be conducted on a routine basis
SUMMARY
Suggested recommendations and mitigation measures associated with actual
and potential impacts together with costing, institutional responsibility and
monitoring responsibility for current (Tables Illa-d) and future (Tables lVa-d)
activities at the four ports are summarised below.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999               157



Environno.m ?t,j Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table Ilia. Maputo and Matola Ports: Summary Environmental Assessment of Current General Waste Management
Practices & The Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT        DURATION   MITIGATION / ACTION                 RESPONSIBILITY    COSTING          MONITORING
(US$)    INSTITUTION
Storage &                                                                         a.  10000
treatment of   Short-term &  a. Test septic tanks for leakage.                                        CFM,
domestic     localised     b. Test soil & groundwater for            CFM          b. 15000       MICOA (DNQA),
sewage                         contamination                                                       MOP (DNA),
c. Cleanup and repair, if                             Determined      MISAU & INID
necessary.                                         by b.
a. Implement environmentally                          Contingency
Management  Short-term         Friendly waste management
of solid waste                 plan & avoid polluting the            CFM             50000            CFM
aquatic environment
b. Provide sufficient containers                      50 per ton
and check regularly to prevent                     operating
overflowing                                        cost
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                    158



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lllb. Beira Port: Summary Environmental Evaluation Summary Ervironmental Assessment of Current General Waste
Management Practices & The Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT       DURATION         MITIGATION/ACTION               RESPONSIBILITY           COSTING         MONITORING
(US$)         INSTITUTION
Management                 Implement environmentally friendly                         Contingency
of solid      Short-term   waste management plan & avoid             CFM                                     CFM
waste                      polluting the aquatic environment                             50000
50 per ton operating
_____________ _________________________________cost
Storage &     Short-term &  To be conducted on a routine basis:                    a. 10000                  CFM,
treatment of  localised                                                                                     MICOA
domestic                   a. Test septic tanks for leakage.         CFM           b. 15000                 (DNQA),
sewage                     b. Test soil & groundwater for                                                 MOP (DNA),
contamination                                      Determined by b.       MISAU & INID
c. Cleanup and repair, if
necessary.
Pollutibn                  Storm water Drains should service                       Construction may be
from          Long-term    all Buildings and lead to Retention       CFM                required         CFM & MICOA
Stormwater                 Facilities for Treatment prior to                                                (DNQA)
Runoff                     Discharge
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                   159
' -"D   .*A.            .;.- ,'    ;   ,             ,'--'



Enviro, -t . i dit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table Illc. Nacala Port - Summary Environmental Evaluation of Current General Waste Management Practices & The
Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT       DURATION          MITIGATION / ACTION                RESPONSIBILITY   COSTING         MONITORING
(US$)     INSTITUTION
a. Implement environmentally friendly                      Contingency
Management                    waste management plan & avoid
of solid     Short-term       polluting the aquatic environment         CFM             50000            CFM
waste
b. Fencing and gating of scrap storage                      50 per ton
areas and introduction of enforcement                    operating
measures to prevent entrance of                            cost
unauthorized persons
Storage &    Short-term &  To be conducted on a routine basis:                       a. 10000
treatment of  localised                                                                                  CFM,
domestic                  a. test septic tanks for leakage.              CFM         b. 15000           MICOA
sewage                    b. Test soil & groundwater for                                               (DNQA),
contamination                                          c. deternmined    MOP (DNA),
c. Cleanup and repair, if necessary.                          by b.       MISAU & INID
Storm  water* brains should service all                    Construction
Pollution                 Buildings and lead to Retention Facilities for                may be
from         Long-term    Treatment prior to Discharge                   CFM            required     CFM & MICOA
Stormwater                                                                                             (DNQA)
Runoff      I   _I                                               I                  I
Impacto, Projectos e Esludos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                               160
,.;     .... ,   ,    ;  ..  +!.     *,.   r   .



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table hlid. Quelimane Port - Summary Environmental Evaluation of Current General Waste Management Practices & The
Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT       DURATION   MITIGATION/ACTION                    RESPONSIBILITY        COSTING        MONITORING
:  (US$)   INSTITUTION
Management                 Implement environmentally friendly                      Contingency
of solid     Short-term    waste management plan & avoid            CFM                                 CFM
waste                      polluting the aquatic environment                          50000
50 per ton
operating
cost
Pollution                  a. Introduce appropriate containers                    Contingency
from         Short-term       for storage of discarded oils
Discarded                     before disposal                       CFM                                 CFM
and spilled                b. Clean up spills regularly and                           20000
Oil and                       implement good house keeping
Petroleum                     practices.
Storage &                  a. Test septic tanks for leakage.                      a. 10000
treatment of  Short-term &  b. Test soil & groundwater for                                              CFM,
domestic     localised        contamination                         CFM           b. 15000         MICOA (DNQA),
sewage                     c. Cleanup and repair, if                                                 MOP (DNA),
necessary.                                          c. Determined    MISAU & INID
by b
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                161
*'f"~~~~~~~~  ';s  -    : - .H,: :     ,         ..,



Environment.! AI 'idit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table IVa. Maputo and Matola Ports: Summary Environmental Assessment -of Future General Waste Management
Practices & The Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT        DURATION   MITIGATION / ACTION                   RESPONSIBILITY    COSTING               MONITORING
(US$)           INSTITUTION
.   Storage &                  To be conducted on a routine basis:
treatment of   Short-term &
domestic     localised     a. Test septic tanks for leakage.      Concessionaire                            CFM,
sewage                     b. Test soil & groundwater for                                              MICOA (DNQA),
contamination                                           Total      MOP (DNA), MISAU & INID
c. Cleanup and repair, if necessary.                     etimSimated
cost
a. Implement environmentally Friendly
Management  Short-term        waste management plan & avoid                          US$70000
of solid waste                polluting the aquatic environment   Concessionaire                            CFM
b. Provide sufficient containers and
check regularly to prevent
overflowing
.mpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                              162
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999   -162
.              .~~~



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lVb. Beira Port: Summary Environmental Evaluation Summary Environmental Assessment of Future General Waste
Management Practices & The Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT       DURATION        MITIGATION/ACTION         RESPONSIBILITY           COSTING          MONITORING
(US$)         INSTITUTION
Management                 Implement environmentally
of solid     Short-term    friendly waste management                                                      CFM
waste                      plan & avoid polluting the     Concessionaire
aquatic environment
Storage &    Short-term &  To be conducted on a routine                       Total estimated
treatment of  localised    basis:                                                  Costimate
domestic                                                                           Cost                  CFM,
sewage                     a. Test septic tanks for       Concessionaire                             MICOA (DNQA),
leakage.                                          US$10000         MOP (DNA), MISAU &
b. Test soil & groundwater for                                                INID
contamination
c. Cleanup and repair, If
necessary.
Pollution                  Ensure the safe containment
from         Long-term    and treatment of stormwater    Concessionaire                              CFM & MICOA
Stormwater                run off                                                                       (DNQA)
Runoff
lmpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                163
;          ,  X                ,.   ; -::  .,-:  .,  , .  -   - ~~~~..  ;,   



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lVc. Nacala Port - Summary Environmental Evaluation of Future General Waste Management Practices & The
Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT       DURATION   MITIGATION/ACTION                          RESPONSIBILITY   COSTING         MONITORING
(US$)     INSTITUTION
a. Implement environmentally friendly
Management                    waste management plan & avoid
of solid     Short-term       polluting the aquatic environment      Concessionaire                       CFM
waste
b. Fencing and gating of scrap storage
areas and Introduction of enforcement
measures to prevent entrance of
unauthorized persons
Total
Storage &    Short-term &  To be conducted on a routine basis:                         estimated
treatment of  localised                                                                                   CFM,
domestic                   a. test septic tanks for leakage.         Concessionaire       cost           MICOA
sewage                     b. Test soil & groundwater for                                               (DNQA),
contamination                                           US$100000       MOP (DNA),
c. Cleanup and repair, if necessary.                                       MISAU & INID
Ensure the safe containment and treatment
Pollution                  of stormwater run off                                                      CFM & MICOA
from         Long-term                                               Concessionaire                      (DNQA)
Stormwater
Runoff
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                 164



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table lVd. Quelimane Port - Summary Environmental Evaluation of Future General Waste Management Practices & The
Maintenance & Management of Working Environments.
IMPACT        DURATION   MITIGATION / ACTION                 RESPONSIBILITY        COSTING       MONITORING
(US$)      INSTITUTION
Management                 Implement environmentally friendly
of solid waste  Short-term  waste management plan & avoid       Concessionaire                           CFM
polluting the aquatic environment
Pollution from             a. Introduce appropriate containers
Discarded     Short-term      for storage of discarded oils                      Total
and spilled                    before disposal                  Concessionaire    estimated              CFM
Oil and                    b. Clean up spills regularly and                      cost
Petroleum                     implement good house keeping
practices.
Storage &     Short-term &  To be conducted on a routine basis:
treatment of  localised                                                                                 CFM,
domestic                   a. Test septic tanks for leakage.    Concessionaire                      MICOA (DNQA),
sewage                     b. Test soil & groundwater for                                         MOP (DNA), MISAU
contamination                                                            & INID
c. Cleanup and reRair, if
necessary.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                165
;                   -                        ^|                       ;;s:..






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructunng Project
5.4. RAIL CORRIDORS
General features
The materials transported in Maputo, Beira and Nacala Corridors comprise a full
range of products handled at the ports, including foodstuff, chemicals and fuels.
Hazardous materials are transported, and it is unlikely that the majority of the
workforce take any special precautions when handling any of the products.
There is a CFM manual concerning Health and Safety on railways, but it is out of
date and rarely consulted. Herbicides are used on the track.
The amount and the type of cargo transported within the corridors coupled with
the rail line maintenance status constitute a threat to adjacent environments
along the corridors.
Workshops at Machava and Gondola, along the Maputo and Beira corridors
respectively, have inadequate environmental protection, occupational health and
safety management with reference to fire risk, safety and pollution, notably waste
oil.
Rail sidings are extensive and littered with abandoned and neglected rolling
stock, trucks and coaches. There has been extensive dumping of waste and loss
of materials including hazardous materials such as asbestos and other pollutants
especially along the Maputo Corridor. Poor track at Maputo and Matola leads to
regular derailments with attendant risks of pollution and accidents to employees.
CONCERNS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
MAPUTO CORRIDOR
Susceptibility of soils to erosion in steep areas in the Libombo
Mountains (border with South Africa and Swaziland)
Recommendation:
1. Rehabilitation, expansion and construction works should take into account the
erosion potential duting planning, construction and operational phases of the
project cycle.
Impacto, Projecto e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                   166



Environmental Audit and Management Plan foir the Rail and Port Restructuring Project,
Negative impacts of railway lines and maintenance that pass through
protected areas
Recommendation:
1. Rehabilitation and future construction in areas that cross Coutada 16 and
TFCA's should be done in coordination with DNFFB to ensure that they are
carried out in accordance with existing conservation programmes.
Defective signalling systems & lack of gates at level crossings
Recommendations:
1. Placement of gates at level crossing
2. Placement of signalling systems; at level crossings
Occurrence of derailment due to po,or state of the lines
Recommendation:
1. Inspection of existing railway tracks and replacement of obsolete components
Potential impacts on sensitive habitats and riverine areas
Recommendation:
1. Rehabilitation, expansion and construction works should be planned to
minimize negative environmentail impacts on critical or sensitive habitats such
as wetlands, riverine areas and intact woodlands and forests
Impacto, Projecto e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999  .               167



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restiuctunng Project
Haphazard disposal of waste materials and risk of fires due to similar
disposal of wooden boxes and other inflammable materials
Recommendations:
1. Construction of adequate installations for waste storage
2. Implementation of adequate methods of waste disposal
3. Installation of fire extinguishers and fire alarm systems
4. Fire fighting equipment and adequate water sources should be available
Transport and handling of hazardous materials
Recommendations:
1. Update or replace the existing health and safety manual and ensuring that all
workers are informed of the contents and abide by any rules or regulations.
2. Enforcement of safety precautions that should be taken by the personnel
handling hazardous materials (use of boots, gloves, suits and respirators and
other protective equipment)
3. Correct identification of hazardous materials to be handled - e.g. type of
material identified in red text on the containers and bags.
4. Collection and correct disposal of hazardous wastes (e.g. asbestos should be
packed in strong red bags marked with "danger - asbestos", sealed and
deposited in a controlled site and not in the municipal land fill site)
5. Decontamination of sites where, in the past, hazardous wastes have been
disposed in inappropriate sites
Scavenging at rail sidings
Recommendations:
1. Enforcement of entrance control of non-authorised people in rail facilities
Impacto, Projecto e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                    168



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
2. Adequate disposal and cleaning of wastes along the corridor
3. Installation of waste containers along the corridor
4. Enforcement of a security corridor from the rail line where the residence and
passage of persons will be forbiclden
Oil and fuel pollution
Recommendations:
1. Repair and rehabilitation of fuel tanks used for storage of lubricants and oils
2. Cleaning and rehabilitation of surface water drains
3. Containment in tanks with no possibility of leakage, infiltration and flow to the
sea, soil, surface and sub-surface waters
Poor state of mechanical and electrical equipment that pose a health and
safety risk
Recommendations:
1. Rehabilitation of infrastructures, including industrial, electric and mechanical
equipment and water supply systems
2. Relocation of obsolete equipment and equipment in disrepair in selected areas
to areas where they will not pose a hazard to employee health and safety.
3. Updating, and enforcement of saifety regulations and files.
Impacto, Projecto e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      169



EnvironmentalAudit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restnrcturing Project
BEIRA CORRIDOR|
Susceptibility of soil erosion in steep areas of Chiluvo, Amatongas and
Manica village
Recommendation:
1. Rehabilitation, expansion and construction works should take into account the
erosion potential duting planning, construction and operational phases of the
project cycle.
Negative impacts of railway lines and maintenance that pass through
protected areas
Recommendations:
1. Rehabilitation and construction works in areas that cross Controlled hunting
area south of Gorongosa, and forest reserves in Manica and Sofala provinces
should be done in coordination with DNFFB to ensure that they are carried
out ih accordance with existing conservation programmes.
Induced deforestation and habitat destruction along the lines
Recommendations:
1. Enforcement of existing deforestation control methods and regulations in close
coordination with DNFFB
Impacto, Projecto e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                    170



Environmental Audit and Management Plan fQr the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Existence of termite mounds in the line that crosses Niassa Province -
the sleepers are destroyed
Recommendation:
1. Regular maintenance of rail lines and progressive substitution of damaged and
untreated wooden sleepers. Replace with sleepers treated with termite-
resistent materials.
SUMMARY
Suggested recommendations and mitigation measures associated with actual
and potential impacts together with costing, institutional responsibility and
monitoring responsibility for current (Table Va) and future (Table Vb) activities at
the four ports are summarised below.
Impacto, Projecto e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        172



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
TABLE VA. Summary Environmental Evaluation of Current Activities Along Rail Corridors
IMPACT              DURATION                 MITIGATION/ACTION                  RESPONSIBILITY          COSTING    MONITORING
(US$)    INSTITUTION
Safe storage & handling   Short-term    Provision workforce with appropriate clothing &
of hazardous materials                  educate re the safe handling of hazardous       Concessionaire          EMP             CFM
materials
Erosion along rail                      Ensure that slopes are re-vegetated along
corridors as a            Long-term    existing tracks, especially during rehabilitation     CFM               36000        CFM & MICOA
consequence of                          work.
maintenance activities
Employee health &                       Implement a fire contingency plan.
safety In workshops       Short-term    Educate & train employees.                      Concessionaire      Contingency         CFM
(Machava & Gondola),                    Provision workshops with fire-fighting                                  plan
especially the risk of fire.            equipment.
pN
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 199917



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Storage & disposal of                   Conduct soil and groundwater contamination
waste oils in workshops   Short-term    tests                                                                              CFM, MICOA
(Machava & Gondola).                   In the vicinity of oil spills                        CFM               20000        (DNFFB & IIP)
In the case of spills into the sea test for existing                              MIREME; INID &
pollution   .                                                                       MOP(DNA)
Clean up & provide safe storage facilities for
waste oils.
Littering along rail                    Clean up sidings especially hazardous                              Contingency
sidings includes          Short-term
hazardous materials                     Such as asbestos.                                   CFM               50000            CFM
such as asbestos.                       Restrict access by fencing
Implement appropriate waste management
Poor condition of the
track at Maputo & Matola                Repair and maintain the track
results in regular        Short-term    Consider all application for compensation           CFM             Contingency    CFM, MICOA,
derailment and is a                     Conduct soil and groundwater tests to                                             MIREME; INID &
public & employee safety                                                                                       60000         MOP(DNA)
risk and a pollution risk               Current pollution levels
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                         174
:'.-.W.   ., : ,   , : :.;.K: .:.- ,, ...   .7.,o, m .



Environmental Auidit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
TABLE VB. Summary Environmental Evaluation of Future Activities Along Rail Corridors
IMPACT             DURATION                MITIGATION/ACTION                 RESPONSIBILITY   COSTING    MONITORING
(US$)    INSTITUTION
Routine training of workforce re the handling of
I Safe storage & handling of   Short-term    Hazardous materials and ensure that they have  Concessionaire   EMP              CFM
hazardous materials                   the appropriate protective clothing
Erosion along rail corridors
as a consequence of       Long-term    Ensure that slopes are re-vegetated along existing  Concessionaire  70000 p.a.  CFM & MICOA
maintenance activities                tracks, especially during rehabiltation work.
Employee health & safety
In workshops (Machava &               Implement a fire contingency plan.
Gondola), especially the  Short-term    Educate & train employees.                    Concessionaire       EMP              CFM
risk of fire.                         Provision workshops with fire-fighting equipment.
Routinely conduct soil and groundwater                                           CFM, MICOA
Storage & disposal of                 contamination tests                                                               (DNFFB & lIP)
waste oils in workshops   Short-term   In the case of spills into the sea test for pollution  Concessionaire  EMP      MIREME; INID &
(Machava & Gondola).                  Implement good housekeeping & provide safe                                         MOP(DNA)
storage facilities for waste oils.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                     175
; S; ;                  >, ,. .,                  :



Envi,    ntal Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Prroject
Littering along rail sidings           Keep sidings clear of wastes, especially                          Contingency
includes hazardous        Short-term
materials such as                      Materials such as asbestos.                    Concessionaire       50000            CFM
asbestos.                              Maintain restricted access by fencing
Implement appropriate waste management plan
Poor condition of the track            Routine track maintenance                                         Contingency
at Maputo & Matola results             Ln the case of derailment consider all applications
in regular derailment and  Short-term    for compensation                             Concessionaire       60000        CFM, MICOA,
is a public & employee                 Conduct soil & groundwater tests if pollution is                                 MIREME; INID &
safety risk and a pollution            Suspected                                                                          MOP(DNA)
risk
m.
Impacto, ProJectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                      176



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
5.5. CONTINGENCY PLANS
The Ports also require appropriate contingency plans for emergency organisation
in the case of fires, accidents (all Ports), and oils spills (Maputo only). Fire
fighting personnel and equipment are present at all four Ports but further capacity
building is required in the form of training and regular fire and other emergency
drills. Maputo Port handles crude oil and therefore requires an oil spill
contingency plan and the equipment and personnel to deal with any oil spills in
the Port. There are two costing components viz. a tugboat (Maputo only), and
training (all Ports).
COSTING
Tug Boat & Oil Spill Collecting Equipment: US$1000000
Training of Personnel: US$50000 (one-week workshop)
5.6. TOTAL COSTS
Total current and future (where applicable) remediation and management costs
for each of the four ports and the rail corridors, together with costing of
contingency plans and the purchase of capitol equipment are presented in
summary table VI.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                   177



Environment .:' f 'udit Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table VI. Summary Total Costs
Total Cost (US$)
Source
Current                             Future
Maputo/Matola Port                            175000                               120000
Beira Port                                175000                               150000
Nacala Port                                125000                               150000
Quelimane Port                               145000                              150000
Rail Corridors                              166000                               180000
Dredging (plan only)                                           50000
Contingency Plans                                             50000
Tugboat & oil spill equipment                                     1000000
CFM Environmental Policy                                          24000
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                           178



Environmental Audit Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 40. Dredging and disposal of dredged materials (Mozambican ports)
.- lpact                Extent       Durationt    Probability of    Legislation    Confidence    Significance    Geographic
"(yenvilron ent)                                        occurrence     and permits                                    location
In all ports,
Increase of erosion trends     Local           Permanent   High              None           High          High             especially in
Beira and
X_________ ._Maputo
Disturbance of                 Local           Permanent   Medium            None           Medium        Medium           In all ports
Benthic subtracts and alterations
of bottom surface topography
Contaminant release from       Limited         Permanent   Medium            None           Low            Medium          Especially in
sediment resuspension and      Regional                                                                                    Maputo
disposal
Resuspension and resettlement of  Local        Short term    Medium           None           High          Medium          Beira and
sediments                                                                                                                  Maputo
Increased turbidity            Local           Short term    Medium           None           Low           Medium          In all ports
In all ports
Loss of shoreline integrity    Local           Long term     Medium           None           Medium        High            But especially
in Beira and
Maputo
Modified bathymetry causing                           .
changes in tidal currents, river  Limited regional  Long term  Medium         None           High          High            In all ports
circulation, salinity and biota
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999
179



Environmental Audit Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 41. Transport, handling and storage of general cargo and raw materials (Mozambican ports)
Impact     .          Extent    Duration    Probability of    Legislation and    Confidence   Significance      Geographic
m(eplo3,/ees annd enviroment)                           occurence         lpermits                                          ocation
Leaching and uncontrolled         Limited    Permanent       High           Existing but        High           High           All ports
contaminated surface water flow    global                                   inadequate
from storage sites
Oil spills in ports &              Local    Long term        High             Existing           High          High           All ports
Harbours
Oil Spiiis at sea                Regionaii   Long term       High             Existing           mighn          ign           Aii ports
Global
Clearing of bilges from ships     Local to   Short term      High             Existing        Medium to      Medium to        All ports
limited                                                       high           high
regional           .
Absence of adequate stormwater    Regional  Permanent        High              None            Medium         Medium          All ports
drains for containment of pollutants
General state of disrepair of storage    Local    Long term  High          Existing but not   Medium to      Medium to         All ports
and transfer facilities                                                   covering all levels                   high
.__________ _ .and  stages
Air pollution
(ammonia silica and dust)          Local    Permanent        High             Existing           High           High          All ports
1=n1lino hFzardoun                 I i;. '!i! 5,   ian nt    Hiab h axistina                     Hi,:                 . i     All ports
1 s i ;;; 4~~~~ $.:   tk V '         k         ; . d,,.



Environmental Audit Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 42. General waste management practices (Mozambican ports)
impact                    Extent    Duration   Probability of   Legislation and    Confidence   Significance         Geographic
(empioybees and environment)                                occurrence          permits                                          location
Unsound collection and disposal of waste  Local    Long term        High             None              High      High            All ports
magerials
Scrap material littering railway sidings  Local    Long term        High              None             High      Medium to       All ports
and foreshores adjacent to ports and                                                                             high
harbours
Inadequate safety conditions in the       Local    Long term        High             Existing          High      High            All ports
workshop areas
Untreated sewage storage                 Limited    Long term       High              None           Unknown    High              All ports
.__ _ _ _ _ _  _   _oc_                    _  _    _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _     _   _   _   _   _   _  _    __/lo ca l  .  .
A.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                     181
~~~~~.                     .,                         ' , .- 48,-;;., . .,;,. 



Environmet;!.' .  'anagement Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Table 43. The rail corridors of Maputo, Beira and Nacala
--Impact           Extent    Duration        Probability of    Legislation/Permits    Confidence    Significance   Geographic location
> X    -,Occurence
Degradation of solis      Local/
and erosion              regional   Permanent           High                 High               High            High       All corridors
Floods, cyclones
And other natural         Local     Short term      High but rare             N/A                N/A            High       All corridors
disasters                                                                                                                  (mainly in Beira anda
____ ____ ____ Nacala)
Protected
Areas, habitats and      Regional   Permanent           High                Existing             High           High       All corridors
blota                   _ _ _ _  __                                    _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Large-scale Industrial
development and           Local    Permanent            High                Existing             High           High       All corridors
m ining__                                                               _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __                                  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Defective equipment
and the transport of    Regional/   Long term           High                 None                High           High       All corridors
hazardous materials      National
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                       182
-,;  s          -  .:     ., $,;:  . -.:   -     . '-.^;¢



PORTFOLIO OF PHOTOGRPAHS
- MAPUTO PORT



I



- .                                               .-         :    :
~~~~~~~~~0 ,-;
Figure 1. Coal Terminal Maputo Harbour
Figure 2. Coal Terminal - Ship cargo.,Private sector]



Figure 3. Car Repair Workshop. Note oil spills on floor adjacent to
drainage channel
.                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zz
Figre Ion                                                                 -
Figure 4. IronExport Termina at Maputo Por



K~~~~M ~
4                          s
- ~ ~ ~~~
Figure 5. Scrap Terminal. For export
*-S  -      >   -
Figure 6. Continuation of the Scrap Terminal 



Figure 7. Fuel tanks within Maputo Pot
|Figure 8. Solid waste . Note open area on shoreline|



Figure 9. Solid waste  |
I..~~~~~~~~~~~.
-   *     . .r:,.   
Figur 10 Soli  Wast dumped nearb  an old rai lieNt-srpfomwgn



ltl; L- -
- -
{-lE
- -
Figure 11. Derelick vessel «stranded on the shoreline, Maputo
port
_
-. -
' f
. _ ,
:- 9'
_5,  ,
. .  .
: '.
.,
. , .
_ _
_E l_
a
=i_ _E
'. _g
[ Figure 12. Iron Ore terminal |
I - - -- - I



PORTFOLIO OF PHOTOGRPAHS
BEIRA PORT






l~~~~~ill
Figure 1. Fire-fighting equipment (foam tns,BiaOil Terminal
jji~ ~ _ _ _*                               4.... .   ---v
'4             I                       -,ir0~;  
I          .
Figure 2. Unit for housing fire-figthing equipment, Beira Oil Tria 



Figure 3. Drainage channel adjacent to fuel storage tanks. Residues from
wasting of tanks drain into the channel which eventually discharges into
Punge Estuary
Figure 4. Continuation of drainage clhannel running from fuel storage
tanks (note oil-demaged wetlands)



Figure S. Localized oil spills on wetlands adjacent to drainage channel
-~~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~                                    ..
_AJ                                                                  S}~~~~~
*\-,~~[*                       ..,1   . 
-~~           ~~ r  '- .'0!V>t   .'               "' '' .
|Figure 6. Drainag-e channel from Beira City discharging into the Pungue
Figstuary. The drainage channel from the fuel storage joins with this canal



Figure 7. Oil pipeline from Beira oil terminal running aver reed swamps
wetlands
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 
Figure 8. Ramp leading to Oil Term-inal berth. Note mangroves on
stone-line



Figure 9. Portionof Beira's Oil Terminal berth, Pungu, Estuary. Note
inter-estuarinle islands with dense mangrove
s 3 S        '                       '    'S  '-''- '''"'
_~~~~~~~~R                                              i2mi
Figure 10. Portion of the Oil Terminal berth. Note rusting hulls on
shoreline



Fgr II OilS pieln frmBiaTrnnlrnigajcn to reed_
swm  wetand
L~~~~it
Figure1t      12l Coelnveyoro  belt, Comial Trmninal Biadjcn  ore 



~~~~~~~~-j
* ~~~                                                           e
.   .         ~  ~~..   .~
.  .    .  .            .-     .~~~~~~~~~~~K- 
| Figure 1 4. Monaines contdaingerou ag area, Be ira Port    |
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 






PORTFOLIO OF PHOTOGRPAHS
NACALA PORT






..~ '.-  'Si
*                     1  _e
~~~~~>   *    _ * _   a
w    *    -w  '  fC _ ~~~- - v j.-* .
Photo 2 Oil spillage at the general. workshop' 



Photo 3. Residual waters and oil accumulation at the general
workshop
Photo 4. General workshop - underground diesel deposit (fuel for port
equipment)



f+tiSaCT,        ,l~~~, ~i~q   2
_*-.  - ^...       
.- _         r       -  ,:             -    -     .1
,}-~~- v-. - -                                 ..
|Photo 5. Pipeline termninal  accessonies used for residue discharge l
j---g-tz                      l                     l :  
.t.<nE 4....-.  ..............................i<
Photo 6. General view of pipeline system



Photo 7. General view of the tanks at Nacala Port
iPhoto 8. Lever brothers Tanks used for vegetable oil storage



Jr-~~~~~~~~~~"
z ASz  <   ,  .   :' 0   : 3    - 't  A
4W
b _ X, '< s7                                            p-, M ;
p_~~~ r          l5~   - A :  ?
Or
Photo 9. Packing and handling of fertilizers (ammonium  sulphate) by
workers at Nacala Port)
-  ~         e b.  ,,,' .,    
, -- --   . -           . -   v-           ,. , 
Photo 10. Open air storage of fertilizers in front of warehouse 2



Photo 1 1. Warehouse I used foi- the storage of fertili3ers
Photo 12. Warehouse 1 used for the storage of fertilisers



Photo 13. Piles of scrap for exportation stored in non paved areas
Photo 14. Piles of scrap for exportation stored in non paved areas
Photo 14. Piles of scrap for exportation stored in non paved areas|



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4&
Pht 15aadb;pnarsoag   fsrpadohrsldrsde,i
no  pae   ra



-~ ~ ~                                ..- .
~~~~-             -                       -
__ C;~~~ -                                           so ~-  - _    '    --- - --
H;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'>:=: -.rC-- 
z~~~othr liudrsde   ncnut



Phot 17 Cotie temia wokhp-soaefsldrsde
-:$r A&&
Pht  8.Cnaie eria wrsho - oilacmato



~~~~-~  -- 
E, rX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
b - --,-t - 0   *  r=   4   . X m   P
7-~~~~~~~~ 
Phot 20 Conainr sorage at the terminal



Photo 21. Salt Ponds at the vicinity of Nacala Port
-~~~~~~~
R   3
Pt2Geleiotcnntr aaN lp-                                 o
Photo 22. Geealt Povedse  of the vcoinitaie terminaal aot  Naaapl



.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~--. ,4.
,e,-    M    _tffs
Photo 23 Fue Tank atr Naal ports                                                        -    <-
J0       _ 
-               .-                -        .-  -_
Photo 24. Thel quayk at Nacala port






PORTFOLIO OF PHOTOGRPAHS
QUELIMANE PORT






-'s :A:
.M - .-
; Ar . _ . _ _
.  'ff'siw .;w iw¢'. 'i' e X
*    / //                                                                              jd
jvf                                                            _
EL ;1-t # w<U 'sso-s' - ' '}
* ' I ., I ,Jl
. , .
t     {
* e . 1 . .
s s o-.Q:
t_ s- j OP_ .
. . P .
. . . ..
I ,  s ,_  w. '''--    :.
|,, _                 -                       '   ' - -4-  . '' 'l \ \
O I | W
.   .  4.    -    ,      I,
*   ,. . ._, .     - _=t         '      . '-          .            '
,, _  .    .,,,;:  _ _           ,          _, .    .       .    .  .
.               .                     .  .           .
 } f . 6 1,,,
., . _ . , . . >   . .   ;,     ,,  ;,   ._   _                          .
.    .  .  ', ,    .   .- .  . ''.  -  .  .  .l    .:  .  '
e s 4 : I . .  , ' . + ,-
-.- X-'.e, , ,;' ....... SE'B, 0- - ;
Photo 1. Main entrance to the Port |
. . . I
-



--
|Photo 2. Internal entrance to the Port - timber residues|
Phto3 Exi gat -~h   ot



hr~ ~~~~~~Zr
Photo 4. Frontal view of the Administration Office.I
: ~ ~ ~ ~~~~         -            - ---
7_7~~~~~~I
ALL
Photo 5. Car washing facilities - ditch for oil drainage.



|-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
rPoo6aadb  a   ahn  aiiis



~~-urI
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
-~~~~~I                -- -D
'4
IPhoto 7 a and b. Frontal view of the workshops. Non paved ground with
oil spot.



V -
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Photo 8 a and b. Backyard of warehouse A and frontal view of
Crustamoz (private company) with port waste
accumulateci on the ground.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~  .,4
Photo 9. Lateral view of the warehouse rented to MADAL company and
exit rail line.
'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: - -,
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :*r
Photo 10. Lateral view of MADAL warehouse



T                         0-O               >
Pht I 1. EnrnefrMDLiaeos



- - B - S
~'I
'J''  ~~~~~~~~<~~~ 9  ''~~~~~~  L        _      *     i~~~~



Photo 13. Warehouse B for storage of general cargo (different types of
cargo).
Photo 14. Connection between the port rail line and CFM station.



:,                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-         _ -,:                       :                                    ,-
,, .     -   .          - ;      .                 .                ,       , ;                                                                                                  ..
:   a     .    -L           ,                                                              ,.      b                    
:                                                ,,:         .e                                                                                                                   .   ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Photo~~~~~~   15  a   an           b,    Ge              e a    vie                     of m n rlc                                 a          t r           g    at; ope                          air



Phot  16a.  nd  . Oen air timber storage-in front of warhueA(t
use).                      -



~~       -  ~:   -   Se 
- ~  ~   ?    - 
Photo 17 a and zb;. Remanin  tibrstrg



:: X ' ,49:
W': e :%
_E ME S { , _ - - .e.r ":
_@' '- i t ' * _,:
LS
v -
- :
- B 
-
g--g
- - --
:9 >
::
__- '.^^;,
-
-
I ^
I -
- - W
-
Photo 18 a and b. Moonng quay
. .



l  ~~         l..  -- - 
Photo 19. Container storage
-.',~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
i'.-.~~~~4~* V
._ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~*                                 f
-  ,,t4;.,   _  ,.,          ,  ^,s),,.,,,,,,,,,,_^7~~~~~
(Photo20.F7ue ; nks






Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
6.1. INTRODUCTION
The Government of Mozambique has adopted the National Environmental
Management Programme (NEMP) as the national policy document for
environmental management and protection.
In addition to national environmental policy, Mozambique has promulgated a
variety of legislative decrees and regulations related to environmental protection.
As operators are required to comply with environmental policies, laws and
regulations of the country it is implicit that any company carrying out operations
in Mozambique would seek to be in compliance with extant legislation. Failure to
do so may constitute a significant liability to the operator. It is in the interest of the
CFM and operators to implement sound enviromental policy and practices for a
variety of reasons including:
- It more cost-effective to prevent pollution than to manage it after it has been
generated
- Improved compliance with Mozambican legislation and regulations
- Enhanced image with customers/markets
- Enhanced employee morale
- Enhanced image with public
The EMP essentially seeks a systematic approach to ensuring that operations
are carried out in compliance with Mozambican legislation and to meeting
environmental goals. Elements of the management plan may be implemented at
two levels viz. via the CFM as a holding company and via the concessionaires as
operators.
CFM and current/future concessionaires must make a firm commitment to
include environmental considerations into planning and operational phases of
their activities. This can be achieved through the formulation of a clear
environmental policy and the implementation of practices to improve overall
environmental performance.
In order to attain international recognition for CFM's EMP, the long-term target of
the company must be to achieve conformance with ISO 14001, a widely
accepted international standard for environmental management.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999              183



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restwcturing Project
6. 2. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF THE EMP
An overall objective of EMP has been defined with a sub-set of strategic
objectives. Each of the strategic objectives has an associated broad area for
action. These broad areas for action are further developed in the form of more
detailed plans that should form the basis for implementation by CFM.
OVERALL OBJECTIVE OF THE EAMP
To ensure those environmental considerations incorporated into all
plans,  programmes  and  activities    carried  out by  CFM   and
concessionaires are in ccmpliance with existing Mozambican
environmental policies, legislatiion and regulations.
Strategic Objective 1
To formulate an environmental policy clearly indicating CFMs commitment to
incorporate environmental dimensions into all plans, programmes and activities
in compliance with existing legislation, regulations and conventions.
[ACTION|
1. Draw up and formalise an environmental policy related to CFM's plans,
programmes and activities.
An outline of CFMs policy documfent is given in Section 6.3 below.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais -- March 1999               184



Environmental-Audit and Management Plan for the, Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Strategic Objective 2
To ensure that CFM and concessionaires are in compliance with existing
policies, legislation, regulations and regional and international conventions.
1. Review where necessary, current CFM policy to be in compliance with
existing laws, regulations and licencing procedures.
2. Include contractual obligations to comply with environmental norms and
regulations between CFM and concessionaires.
Recommendations for the inclusion of contractual clauses are given in
Section 6.4 below.
Strategic Objective 3
To define and develop institutional roles, responsibilities and jurisdictional
competencies in order to co-ordinate activities for the implementation of the
EMP.
ACTIONS
1. Review institutional roles and responsibilities.
2. Identify inter-institutional mechanisms for improved environmental monitoring,
enforcement and control.
Recommendations for improved institutional co-ordination are given in
Section 6.5 below.
Impacto, Pfojectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                  185



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Strategic Objective 4
To reduce and prevent negative environmental impacts arising from
operations and activities performed by CFM and concessionaires
ANS
1. Document base-line environmental conditions of areas affected by operations
and activities carried by CFM andi concessionaires, based on the information
presented in this report.
2. Develop procedures for environmental screening of operations and activities
carried by CFM and concessionaiires.
3. Develop guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment procedures
associated with ports, harbour and railways operations that may have
significant environmental impacts. These will identify appropriate mitigation
measures to reduce/eliminate actualpotential environmental impacts.
4. Develop a monitoring programme to ensure that environmental impacts are
detected at all levels and stages of project operations and activities.
5. Develop best practices and protocols for the transport, handling, treatment
and disposal of general and hazardous materials and Wastes to
minimize/eliminate risk of environmental and human health risks.
A checklist for environmental screening is given in ANNEX 2
Recommendations for detailed environmental assessment and monitoring
are given in Section 6.6 below.
Procedures for ElA's in relation to railways and Ports in Mozambique are
given in Section 6.7 below.
A detailed Waste Management Plan is given in Section 6.8 below.
lmpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999              186



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Strategic Objective 5
o update employee health and safety guidelines and develop procedures fo
eir implementation.
ACTIN
1. Update guidelines and implement procedures for employee health and safety.
2. Through awareness and training ensure that workers are fully familiar with
employee health and safety regulations and procedures.
An employee safety and health policy for the ports, harbours and railways
is given in Section 6.9 below and ANNEX 3.
Strategic Objective 6
To ensure that CFM/concessionaires are able to cope with emergency
situations that may impact on human and environmental wellbeing.
ACTIONS
1. Formulate a policy and guidelines for emergency response for emergency
situations.
2. Develop adequate procedures for emergency responses for disasters and
accidents.
An operational emergency organisation (OEM) procedure is
presented in Section 6.10 below and in ANNEX 4.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999               187



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
Strategic Objective 7
To ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated into dredging
operations associated with Maputo, Beira and Quelimane Ports
|ACTION|
1. In collaboration with relevant national institutions develop a National Policy on
dredging and dredged material disposal associated with CFM's ports and
harbours
See Section 6.11 below.
Strategic Objective 8
To formulate, in collaboration with relevant institutions, a National Oil
Spill Contingency Plan.
ACTI
1. In collaboration and consultation with SAFMAR and MICOA, formulate a
National Oil Spill Contingency Plan.
See Section 6.12 below
Strategic Objective 9
To formulate and implement a human resources development strategy for
environmental management throLugh appropriate training.
ACTIONS|
1. Carry out training needs assessment of CFM staff and associated agencies.
impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                188



Environmental.Audit and Managem,ent Plan for the Rail and Port. Restructuring Project
2. Based on the training needs assessment, develop, design and/or identify
appropriate training courses for CFM staff and associated agencies.
See Sections 6.5 and 6.13 below.
Strategic Objective 10
In the long-term, formulate an environmental management system based on
internationally accepted criteria and standards, specifically ISO 14001.
ACTION
1. Through a process of refinement and revision to the EMP to develop an
environmental management plan that is in full conformance with ISO 14001
See Section 6.14 below.
6.3. CFM's POLICY - AN OUTLINE
At a National level, the Government of Mozambique has clearly stated its
commitment to the environment through the adoption of the National
Environmental Management Programme (NEMP). The NEMP seeks to ensure
that environmental considerations are included into all sectoral policies, plans
and programmes. The important role of harbours and ports in the economy of the
country is recognised in the NEMP. The need for the ports -of Mozambique to
promote environmentally sound practices is specifically referred to in the NEMP.
CFM takes it's lead from stated government policy and will ensure that
environmental considerations are incorporated into it's own operations as well as
those of current and future concessionaires.
CFM is firmly committted to compliance with all applicable laws and regulations,
the promotion of waste reduction, resource and property conservation and
environmental protection, and will train employees to be knowledgeable about all
environmental matters relevant to their work.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999             189



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
The Environmental Policy conStitLites CFM's declaration of commitment to the
environment. The policy serves as the foundation for the EMP and provides a
unifying vision of environmental concern by the agency. The Policy will be
transmitted to employees at all levels of the CFM structure in order to achieve the
environmental objectives and will be subject to continual improvement.
The policy is related to the operations, services, as well as supporting activities
in the context of ecologically sensitive areas especially the protection of coastal
and marine resources.
6.4. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS OF CONCESSIONAIRES
In the first instance it should be noted that all entities that sign concession
agreements with CFM are obliged by law to comply with extant Mozambican
legislation and regulations related to environmental protection (see Chapter 6).
This obligation stands regardless of whether or not it is specified in the contracts
to be signed between CFM and concessionaires.
The enforcement and control of compliance of the legal regulations for
environment conservation belonc to several institutions, depending on the
specific area of activity. For example: marine pollution control and enforcement
will be carried out by the different Maritime Administrations (SAFMAR) of the
country whilst the control of toxic vwaste discharge in the rivers will be carried out
by the Regional Water Administrations.
However, CFM  can contribute in several ways to guarantee that the
concessionaires fulfil all legal obligations, notably through their co-signing of
contracts.
BEFORE THE SIGNING OF A CONTRACT WITH A CONCESSIONAIRE
Before a contract is to be signed, 'CFM must co-ordinate with institutions dealing
with environmental issues relatecl to the planned activity in order to be fully
informed of the environmental regulations that should to be included in the
contract.
AFTER THE SIGNING OF THE CONCESSION CONTRACT
A copy of the contractual clauses referring to environmental obligations must be
sent to the relevant institutions responsible for environmental protection,
enforcement and control.
CONTRACTUAL CLAUSES
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999              190



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
According to Mozambican legislation two types of contractual clauses can be
included to ensure that the operator complies with environmental laws and
regulations.
Preventive Title ("Titulo Preventivo")
Before the concession has been granted, and depending on the type of activity or
service to be carried out, an analysis of the concessionaire's capabilities
(technical, human and material) must be carried out, in order to fulfil the legal
regulations for environmental protection.
For example, if the planned activity has the potential to cause air pollution, the
concessionaire is obliged to confirm (in writing) that the appropriate technology to
limit air pollution levels to acceptable levels will be installed.  If the
concessionaire e does not use these technologies, the contract is violated and
can be rescinded.
The specific environmental legislation for the activity or service to be
conceded by CFM must be annexed to the contract.
Repressive Title ("Titulo Represivo")
The contracts may specify compliance with existing environmental regulations.
Non compliance with these regulations can result in:
- Application of a fine by CFM for violation of this disposition.
-  Possibility of rescinding the contract if the concessionaire violates the legal
regulations.
However, it must be noted that the fine to be implemented must not be
interpreted as a fine for violation of the regulations but as a fine for violation of
the contractual obligations.
The violation of the legal regulations for environmental conservation will be
punished (according to the area and activity carried out) by the relevant legal
Instrument that regulates that specific case and will be imposed by the institution
to which legal authority has been given. (For example, marine pollution will be
enforced by SAFMAR)
A Law that punishes environmental crimes is expected to be approved in the
near future and henceforth the punishment for violation of environmental
regulations for environmental protection by a court of law.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                  191






Environmental Audit and, Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
6.5. INSTITUTIONAL ROLES IN COORDINATING IMPROVED
ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING, MONITORING, ENFORCEMENT
AND CONTROL
In the first instance, it should be noted that, in general Mozambican institutions
lack institutional and operational capacity to ensure the necessary enforcement
and control of activities and operations that may affect the environment. This will
require the implementation of an institutional and human resources development
strategy for the various institutes, targetting all levels.
However, co-ordination and collaboration between CFM and the different
institutions can be improved and strengthened in a number of ways.
PRIOR TO OPERATIONS
Inter-institutional co-ordination regarding environmental issues prior to the
signing of a contract between CFM and concessionaires is referred to above.
DURING OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE CONCESSION
Although it is not a specific task of CFM to enforce and control environmental
regulations, monitoring and checks can be carried out by various agencies
including the concessionaires.
The CFM has constituted an uenvironmental unit" based in Maputo. The unit is
currently weak and will require strengthening if they are to play a key role in
ensuring compliance with legal and environmental regulations by CFM and
concessionaires, and to carry out environmental monitoring. In view of the
proposed restructuring, the Unit will need to be small but effective with a clearly
defined mandate. The Unit should have mainly a regulatory role, rather than an
implementation role. For example, the Unit should have the capacity to conduct
environmental audits (in the form of a simplified checklist referred to in ANNEX 2)
on a regular basis (at least yearly).
Based on the audit findings, CFM staff will liaise with the concessionaire
indicating potential and actual risks and violation of legal regulations. Copies of
the audit plus recommendations should be forwarded to the planned
Independent Authority" which will be constituted to oversee CFMs operations as
well to relevant agencies responsible for environmental control and enforcement.
In this way CFM or the Independent Authority can communicate any violations by
the concessionaire to the relevant enforcement agency.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999              192



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
The specific roles vis-a-vis environmental monitoring, enforcement and
punishment must be clearly defined and co-ordinated between the agencies, to
avoid duplication of activities and punishments for the same offence. Whereas
CFM may have a role in monitoring, other agencies will be responsible for
enforcement and punishment in accordance with their legal statutes.
For example, if the concessionaire is not fulfilling the regulations concerning
water pollution the competent acgencies that apply the punishment for this
contravention are SAFMAR (marine and navigable inland waters) or the Regional
Water Administrations (inland waters), and not CFM. Only after implementation
of the punishment can CFM impose a fine for violation of contractual obligations
related to environmental protection (see Contractual Obligations above).
Independent and additional monitoring can be carried out by agencies such as
SAFMAR and the Regional Water Authorities, in addition to their enforcement
role.
In the event of an environmental violation, the enforcement agency (e.g.,
SAFMAR) must inform CFM of the nature of the violation (and punishment) so
that CFM can impose the appropriate fine for the contractual violation.
THE ROLE OF THE INDEPENDENT AUTHORITY
Under the restructuring programme! CFM will be downsized and transformed into
a holding company. CFM will enter into contractual agreements with private
sector concessionaires who will fulfil components of CFMs current operations. An
Independent Authority (IA) will be created to oversee CFMs management and
operations to ensure that CFM is performing in the public interest.
The Terms of Reference of the Independent Authority should include the
authority to monitor and evaluate the environmental performance of CFM and its
concessionaires. An "environment unit" could be constituted within the l.A.
specifically to deal with environmental issues.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL UNIT, CFIM
The CFM  should have the capacity to monitor it's own environmental
performance as well as the performance of concessionaires. This can be
achieved through capacity building within the environmental unit.
Although personnel (two persons) have been indicated as responsible for
"environmental matters" their responsibilities are not well defined and the unit
needs to be formalised within the CFM structure.
A summary of outstanding costs in relation to capacity building within the EU is
presented in Table VII.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais March 1999                193



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the, Rail and Port, Restructuring Project
It is recommended that a small unit, comprising not more than three persons, be
established.
Their responsibilities will include the following:
* Develop an Environmental Policy for CFM
* Ensure that current CFM regulations are reviewed and where necessary
revised with regard to environmental considerations and employee health and
safety.
. Ensure that CFM  operations are in compliance with the Framework
Environmental Law and other relevant laws.
* Ensure that projects requiring environmental impact assessments (Category
A Projects) comply with the EIA Regulations.
* In liaison with MICOA, draw up TOR for ElAs.
* Review EIA Reports.
* Conduct environmental audits of CFM's and concessionaire operations.
. Promote environmental and health and safety awareness at all levels of
CFM's staffing structure.
* Establish good working relationships with govemment institutions that have
environmental roles.
, Report to the Independent Authority at least biannually on environmental
issues in relation to CFM/concessionaires operations.
Recommendations
1. The two senior staff of the environmental Unit at CFM should be sent
overseas to obtain diplomas in Environmental Impact Assessment and the
CFM engineer should attend a short course on Environmental Management.
The costs of this training component are presented in the Tertiary Ports
Report.
2. While staff undergo training, fully qualified personnel should be seconded to
CFM who are capable of planning and executing routine environmental
monitoring as well as guiding the implementation of the proposed
Environmental Management Plan. Individuals seconded to this role should be
qualified in EIA and preferably have experience of environmental
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999               194



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
management associated with ports harbours and railways. CFM should seek
the assistance of the World Bank: for the secondment process.
The principle task of the staff of the EU is the successful implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan. In addition, over time the staff of the EU,
together with appropriate expert assistance, should also address the following
outstanding issues.
* Lack of CFM Environmental Policy
The National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP) promotes the
inclusion of environmental considerations into all sectoral policies, plans and
programmes.
Currently CFM does not have a specific policy related to the environment. CFM
should, therefore, formulate a policy confirming it's commitment to compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations, the promotion of waste reduction,
resource and property conservation, environmental protection and the training of
employees to be knowledgeable about all environmental matters relevant to their
work.
The policy is related to the operations, services, as well as supporting activities in
the context of ecologically sensitive areas especially the protection of coastal and
marine resources.
The Policy should be transmitted to employees at all levels of the CFM structure
in order to achieve specific environmental objectives and will be subject to
continual improvement.
The policy should be formulated by the CFM Environmental Unit with technical
assistance provided by policy, legal and institutional experts.
Cost US$ 24 000
Outdated Port, Harbour and Railway Regulations
Regulations for harbour operations are specified in the "Regulamento da
Explora,ao dos Cais dos Portos de Louren,o Marques, Inhambane, Quelimane,
Mozambique (Parte-cais do Lumbo), Nacala, Porto Amelia e Mocimboa da Praia"
approved on 24th April 1965, Portaria No 18630. These regulations cover mainly
harbour activities and operations anid loading/unloading from vessels and only a
few articles refer to environmental protection, health and safety:
Article 42 refers to the necessity to control land-based activities that, through
run-off, may affect the marine waters of the harbour.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - jMarch 1999              195



Environmental Audit and- Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
. Article 47 refers to the necessity to display the correct signalling flag on a
vessel carrying any explosive or hazardous substance.
* Article 92 states when loading coal proper ventilation must be maintained to
ensure the safety of workers.
* All products undergoing deterioration that may pose a health hazard must be
removed (Articles 123 and 124).
* Radioactive substances are subject to a special regulation and may not be
transported through the port area without prior authorisation (Article 129).
The regulations are obviously out-of-date and are inadequate to ensure
environmental health and workers safety and health.
Importantly, there is no up-dated list of hazardous and toxic materials that require
proper  transport,  handling  and  storage  by  CFM/Concessionaires.  A
comprehensive list of categories of hazardous and toxic materials based on
existing classification (e.g. the National Institute of Agronomic Research, the
National Institute for Quality Control, the Ministry of Health, MICOA and the
World Health Organisation) must be drawn up and published. The costing is
given in Table VIl.
* Lack of National Oil Spill Policy and Contingency Plan
SAFMAR is responsible for oil spill control however, there is no contingency plan
for oil spill does not exist. The formulation of a National Oil Spill Contingency
Plan including mapping of ecologically sensitive areas should be carried out.
Costing is presented in the Tertiary Ports Report.
Lack of Dredging Policy, Guidelines and Regulations
EMODRAGA   (Empresa Mo,ambicana de Dragagem) is an independent
company created in 1994 and under the supervision of the Ministry of Transport
and Communications to carry out dredging. The main tasks include:
Maintenance dredging in channels of ports, harbours and quays;
Active dredging to increase depth and width of access channels to ports;
Collection of sand for construction.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                196



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the. Rail and Port Restructuring Project,,
At present there are no environmental guidelines for dredging and disposal of
dredged materials. According to INAHINA's statutes there is an obligation for
consultation prior to dredging activities (..."INAHINA must be consulted about
dredging activities that can result in alterations of the hydrographic regime.").
However, this consultation rarely occurs. In any event, EMODRAGA. statutory
regulations lack this obligation. A more detailed account of the environmental
concerns surrounding dredging is presented in the Tertiary Ports Report.
Costing is presented in the Tertiary Ports Report.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais --March 1999                     197



Environmental Audit and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinq Proiect
Table VII Summary Table of additionalmanagement and capacity building costs.
ACTIONCOLBRTN
ISSUEICONCERN                                                 RESPONSIBILITY    COSTING (US$)   COLLABORATING
INSTITUTION
Lack of personnel/sector within  Creation and strengthening of an                       Costing given in
CFM with clear mandate for    Environmental Unit within CFM                              Tertiary Ports
pnvironmental issues                                                                        Report
Lack of Environmental Policy    Contract technical expertise to assist CFM                                  CFM, SAFMAR, MICOA
to formulate an environmental policy         CFM                24000
Outdated Port, Harbour and  Contract technical expertise to review and                                     CFM, SAFMAR, INAHINA,
Railway Regulations         revise current regulations.                   CFM               150000           EMODRAGA, MICOA
Lack of Oil Spill Contingency    Formulation of a national oil spill                    See tertiary ports
Plan                        contingency plan including with mapping of  SAFMAR               report        SAFMAR, CFM, INAHINA,
ecologically sensitive areas should be                         (50000)                 MICOA
carried out.
a) Lack of Dredging Policy,    a) Formulation of a dredging policy and
Guidelines and              regulations that incorporate                           See tertiary ports    EMODRAGA, CFM,
Regulations                 environmental protection.              EMODRAGA              report         INAHINA, SAFMAR,
b) Lack of proper inter-    b) Review and revise inter-institutional                       (120000)                MICOA
institutional co-ordination  co-ordination mechanispms related to
dredging operations         dredging
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                                                                                 198
-.,>  jf,,;   '   .'.<,',' s;'   -          .,  .  ,.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.






Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinn Project
6.6. DETAILED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MONITORING
A more detailed environmental assessment and monitoring programme may be required.
The need for a more detailed assessment and monitoring may be "triggered" following the
completion of the environmental screening form (see above and ANNEX 2) which may
identify parameters to be measured. In which case concessionaires may wish a more
detailed base-line enviromental asssessment of the project area affected by their
operations (even prior to signing of the contact if deemed necessary) followed by a longer-
term monitoring programme).
The parameters to be measured will be contingent upon the location of the project and the
nature of the operations. Each operator should prepare a site-specific environmental
monitoring plan that enables correct management and ensures compliance with
environmental standards for each Port and Corridor. Generic parameters that may require
monitoring during project planning, start-up and operation may include:
- Geotechnical and chemical characterization of sediments;
- Geotechnical and chemical characterization of soils and subsoils;
- Water quality of project area and proposed disposal areas including surface waters
(where applicable) and ground water;
- Long-term chemical/physical testirg of project area; disposal location sediments
and water quality;
- Long-term monitoring of biota for the possible accumulation of contaminants;
- Long-term monitoring of sediment transport, accretion (shoaling), erosion, and the
impacts and effectiveness of any man-made structures;
- Maintenance programs to keep a high level of employee environmental awareness;
- Monitoring of effects of project on populations and systems in the environs of the
port and harbour facilities.
The frequency of the sampling will be dependent on the parameter to be measured: For
example, it may be necessary to measure impacts on biota more than once a year to take
into account seasonal variations in populations whilst monitoring of ground.water could be
carried out on an annual basis.
Where a resource, habitat or ecosystem may be affected by more than a single operator
(e.g. an estuary, inland water body, ground water) operators should enter into negotiations
in order to cover jointly, the costs of the assessment and monitoring.
6.7. ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  ASSESSMENT  PROCEDURES!
REQUIREMENTS
It is essential that CFM ensure, by way of contractual obligation, that concessionaires
carry out Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs) for operations that are liable to cause
significant negative impacts on the environment. In any event the concessionaire will be
acquired to carry out an ElA'in accordance with the recently passed Environmental Law.
Article16 states that an environmental impact assessment shall be based on an
environmental study to be carried out by entities registered by the government.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      199



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail ana eort Restructunng Project
THE MINIMUM CONTENT OF THE EIA STUDY SHALL INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING
INFORMATION (ARTICLE 17):
A NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT;
- A description of the activity to be carried out;
- The environmental status of the site where the activity is to be carried out;
- Any consequential alteration of the different environmental components that exist at
the site;
- Measures to be taken to eliminate or reduce the negative impacts of the activity on
environmental quality;
- Systems to be implemented to control and monitor the activity.
POTENTIAL IMPACTS
Port, harbour and railway development generate a variety local environmental problems
although the nature of these impacts will differ contingent upon the variations in features
such as geography, hydrology, geology, ecology, industrialisation, urbanisation and type of
shipping.
The alteration of natural waters and the construction of man-made structures can lead to
direct impacts on the water body being dleveloped as well as direct and indirect impacts on
related ecosystems and communities in the project environment.
Potential aquatic impacts include:
- Oil spills and discharges;
- Contaminant release from sediment resuspension,
- Surface runoff,
- Habitat destruction;
- Changes in water chemistry and circulation;
- Occupational and public health concems;
- Degradation of marine resources such as beaches, estuaries, cofal reefs, and
fisheries; resuspension and settlement of sediments;
- Partitioning of toxic contaminants andl reintroduction to the water column;
- Contaminant uptake by and accumulation in fish and shellfish;
- Increased turbidity causing decrease in light penetration and associated photosynthetic
activity; short-term depletions of dissolved oxygen levels;
- Modified bathymetry causing changes in circulation,
- Possible saltwater intrusion to groundwater and inland surface water;
- Altered species diversity and structurie of benthic communities and fluctuations in water
chemistry; changes in shoreline structure;
- Loss of habitat and fisheries resources.
Terrestrial impacts include:
- Contamination due to dredged materials disposal;
- Erosion and sedimentation due to hydrologic changes caused by channel deepening
and widening and shorezone development (construction of breakwaters, etc.);
- Loss of sensitive habitat (e.g., Wetlands, mangroves) due to shoreline and port-related
development;
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      200



Environmental and Manasement Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
- Loss of existing and future land use.
Air impacts
- Degradation of air quality due to emissions fugitive dusts.
Process to be followed
The Impact Assessment Study must be an integral part of the planning, design and
management of any works or infrastructure. It may be necessary to employ a staged
process that assesses needs and, if appropriate, progressively refines options, addresses
potential impacts and identifies management needs. This can be achieved firstly through
screening and scoping and finally by a full-blown EIA.
Responsibility for overseeing the required investigations rests with the Ministry for the
Coordination for the Environmental Affairs (MICOA) which will act in collaboration with the
Ministry of Transport.
The draft EIA regulations stipulate that prior to carrying out an EIA, Terms of Reference
must be agreed upon between the client (CFM/concessionaire) and MICOA (the
Department of EIA, see organigramme). The EIA is carried out by a group of independent
consultants and MICOA is responsible for ensuring that the TOR have been complied with.
MICOA is also responsible for the independent review of the EIA Report.
Thee Terms of Reference may require consultation with interested and affected parties
(community groups, industry, the general public and relevant state and local government
agencies) throughout the Environmental Impact Assessment in the case of third parties
being affected.
Draft reports are to be released for public comment as the study proceeds and a draft of
the final Impact Assessment Study is to be released for public review. The results of
consultation will be taken into account by the EIA consultants in their formulation of
recommendations during the EIA.                                 !
The proponents must also demonstrate that the project will not adversely affect the
environment or be in contravention of legislation or international conventions listed below.
Where impacts are expected, the proponents should clearly identify these impacts, the
expected extent of the impacts and provide details of measures proposed to minimise
them.
Although the regulations are not yet finalised it is recommended that the EIA Report
follows the following format.
Description of Proposed Works
1. Description of Existing Environment:
(i)Natural Environment
(ii) Social Environment
(iii) Economic Environment  -  - J                            -      -'
(iv) Aesthetic Factors
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       201



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinn Proiect
(v) Cultural Factors
(vi) ApDrovals and Permits
2. Environmental Impacts
This section will clearly identify, highlight and substantiate the principal environmental
impacts expected to result from the project. The reliability and validity of predictions should
be discussed.
It should include consideration of:
* Direct and indirect, short and long term, temporary and irreversible, adverse and
beneficial (cumulative impacts should be described and, where possible, quantified);
Available management and mitigation measures, including their costs and benefits; and
* Possible accidental or abnormal impacts should be noted and a worst case scenario
should be included if a significant risk exists
It will include descriptions of the impacits in terms of what is expected during both the
construction phase and during the operational phase. This should include an assessment.
of any impacts on places of national conservation status, listed or nominated for listing as
wetlands of national or international importance, species listed as endangered species.
The impacts will be considered in different phases of the project:
(i) Construction Phase
(ii) Operational Phase
(iii) Risk Assessment
3. Recommendations and mitigation rneasures
4. Environmental Management Plan
The development of Environmental Management Plans is an important part of the Impact
Assessment Process. They document the processes and actions by which impacts are
ameliorated, effects are monitored and remedial actions taken. Such Plansshould include
nominated performance criteria, monitoring, auditing, reporting and rehabilitation designs.
They should also outline corrective actions should unforeseen impacts arise and allocate
responsibilities for all actions associated with environmental management. An
Environmental Management Plan should be an evolving document that is reviewed at
regular intervals.
6.8. WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
Waste is not currently defined in Mozambique although a useful definition is provided
South Africa's Environmental Conservation Act (No 73 of 1989):
. an undesirable or superfluous by-Fproduct, emission, residue or remainder of any
process or activity, any matter (gaseous, liquid or solid - or a combination thereof),
originating from any residential, commercial or industrial area, which:-
a)   is discarded by any person;
b)   is accumulated and stored by any person with the purpose of eventually. discarding
it, with or without prior treatment; or
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        202



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinq Project
c)   is accumulated or stored by, any person with the purpose of recycling,, re-using or
extracting a useable product from such matter'
Wastes may be classified as "General" or "Hazardous". These are defined as follows:
General Waste (G): General waste applies to all urban waste and may include inert
building rubble, garden, domestic, commercial and general, dry, industrial waste.
Hazardous Waste (H): Hazardous waste is defined as "an inorganic or organic element or
compound that, because of its toxicological, physical, chemical or persistency properties,
may exercise detrimental acute or chronic impacts on human health and the environment.
It can be generated from a wide range of commercial, industrial, agricultural and domestic
activities and may take the form of liquid, sludge or solid. These characteristics contribute
not only to degree of hazard, but are also of great importance in the ultimate choice of a
safe and environmentally acceptable method of disposal." (DWA&F, 1994b). Hazardous
substances are grouped according to SABS Code 0228 into 9 classes (Table 45).
Table 45.Classification of hazardous substances according to SABS Code 0228
classes
Class Description
1     Explosives
2      Gases: compressed, liquified or dissolved under pressure (including:
flammable, non-flammable and poisonous gases)
3      Flammable liquids (differentiated according to their flashpoint)
4      Flammable solids or substances
5     Oxidising substances
6      Poisonous (toxic) and infectious substances
7      Radioactive substances
8     Corrosives                                             -
9      Other miscellaneous substances, that in any other substance which
experience has shown or may show, to be of such dangerous character
that the provisions of this Section may apply to it.
Waste may be further classified in terms of its hazard rating (by Class 6 of SABS
0228). Categories of hazard rating are based on acute and chronic mammalian and
ecological toxicity and environmental fate.
There are four ratings:
Hazard Rating 1  Extreme Hazard
Hazard Rating 2  High Hazard
Hazard Rating 3  Moderate Hazard
Hazard Rating 4  Low Hazard
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       203



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
There are six fundamental components to waste management (Figure 36). It is evident
that the waste management process deals with waste from its generation point through to
final disposal.
Waste generation
Storage
Collection
Transfer/Transport      0    -    Processing/Recovery
Disposal
Figure 36:   The Tchobanoglous model of the waste management process
.pc.Pjcs.susmins .Mr  199                    2
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1999  204~~~~~~~~~~ 



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinn Project
The Waste Management Plan
The current practice of waste management at each of the ports is considered to be
informal and ad hoc this has led to a situation where waste has the potential to cause
significant environmental risk.
The following waste management plan has been prepared with a view to its
implementation at each of the ports. The waste management plan has been designed so
as to achieve the following objectives:
To eliminate existing waste handling and disposal practices which pose an immediate risk
to public health and the environment
To improve the standard of waste management services and disposal in accordance with
developmental goals, environmental standards and future needs of the ports.
To gain experience and build appropriate capacities in regulatory controls and economic
instruments, information gathering and report systems, monitoring and compliance
programs, and the legal, technical and scientific knowledge base.
Waste registers
There is currently no indication of the types or volumes of waste being generated at any of
the ports. Therefore, from the outset, it is suggested that a database of waste is
established. The database is considered integral to the continued success of waste
management for the ports.
It is suggested to identify, set up and maintain an appropriate (electronic if possible) waste
management system. The intention of this system is to collate, maintain and update
information on waste generation and management. The lead agency for this action should
be overall port authority. Other participants should include: industry, private and public
institutions.
This information will serve to keep generators aware of their wastes, inform Interested and
Affected Parties about any wastes that may have the potential tc( infringe their
environmental rights, and provide decision-makers with an acceptable level of knowledge
to assist them in making informed decisions.
The database should contain the following information:
A register including all businesses with (for example) 20 or more employees as well as
public and private institutions.
Each organisation's waste types, chemical composition and quantities.
An inventory of the storage, treatment, recycling and disposal systems and/or facilities
used by the generator, including facilities on the generator's own premises.
An inventory of all storage, treatment, recycling and disposal facilities in the area of the
port.
A list of knowledgeable individuals, amongst industry and other organisations, who could
inform and advise on waste management issues.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       205



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
It is only through the creation of an appropriate waste register that the reminder of the
waste management plan can be implemented effectively.
Waste minimisation
All facilities operational at the ports should be encouraged to consider waste minimisation
practices and to adopt clean technologies with a view to ultimately preventing the
generation of waste products.  Facilities should be encouraged to adopt clean
technologies through incentive schemes such as the reduction on tariffs.
Voluntary agreements could be struck between the waste generators and the port
operators, where the generators implernent a self-imposed action programme on waste
management.
This is a mechanism to allow generators and the port authority to begin implementing
preventive and mitigatory measures to address waste, even though the legislative
framework and technological and human resource capacity may be inadequate.
Generators agree to achieve measurable targets within a specified time period and port
authority undertakes to follow an agreed monitoring and reporting schedule and to provide
training and guidance to industry to comply.
Waste storage
Waste is currently stored in a haphazard fashion prior to transport. General and hazardous
waste materials are being stored together. There are a number of activities that need to
be conducted to improve the situation associated with waste storage.
Clean-up
Clean up operations should be initiated in the areas that have either been neglected or in
areas where scrap materials have simply been discarded in the past. The clean up should
be started as soon as possible to removea previous accumulations.
The aesthetic and health implications of the clean up operations are self evident, however,
the deterrent effect of a clean environmient cannot be overlooked. This effect is based on
the different implications of littering on a 'clean" landscape as opposed to compound
littering (i.e. on areas that have already been spoiled).
The materials that are collected during the clean-up operations should be either placed in
a central facility and stored under environmentally acceptable conditions or should be
transported and disposed of in the municipal disposal sites.
The areas that have been cleared should be rehabilitated which should include
landscaping and the replanting of vegetation wherever possible.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       206



W) vhLJlIi    I # I IUAC     /iidl d o jatd    ttll (Ol  15.11 SI i . 5F.ui  I   !Xt.QLJ jLuj  iL s .&L 4 l ,1 W ,M5 L
PROVISION-OF STORAGE FACILITIES;
Wastes, from individual facilities should be stored in environmentally acceptable
conditions. The acceptability of storage facilities will depend on the nature and quantities
of the of the wastes generated.
Office wastes should be stored in skips adjacent to the office buildings. The skips should
be large enough to accommodate approximately one average week's waste products or
sufficient to take into account the periodicity of the municipal waste service facilities.
Ideally the skips should be placed in secure areas out of the reach of scavengers or away
from areas where workers may gather. Under no circumstance should the wastes in
these skips be burned while in storage.
Hazardous wastes must be stored under stringently controlled conditions. Depending on
the hazard rating of the material and the volumes, wastes should be stored in secure
conditions (preferably under lock and key). All hazardous wastes must be marked as such
and workers in these areas educated of the potential hazards. In any event, all hazardous
materials should be stored on bunded areas. Cut-off drains should prevent any potential
spillages from feeding into the natural systems. It is critical that contingency plans are
developed to accommodate any spillages that may occur. Contingency measures may
include fire control, clean-up or chemical reagents. The contingency measure must not be
simply washing the spill into the bay.
Cargo material
The current practice of storing cargo materials in unbunded areas creates the potential for
groundwater and land contamination among other hazards. Bulk cargoes should be
stored on bunded areas where cut-off drains and stormwater controls are provided.
Waste collection/transport
The collection and transport of wastes is a contentious issue. It is apparent that currently
general and domestic wastes are collected and transported through the municipal system.
This practice should be encouraged as much as possible and, if possible, the frequency of
collection increased. The port facilities should work closely with the municipal authorities
to ensure that the collection frequency is adequate to prevent the unnecessary build up of
stored wastes.
It is not suggested that municipal services be encouraged to collect and dispose of
hazardous wastes. The collection, removal and disposal of wastes from the port into the
municipal system will only move the problem elsewhere since it is apparent that no formal
hazardous waste disposal facilities exist in Mozambique.
Hazardous wastes should be collected and stored in a central facility prior to transportation
to a waste disposal facility that has been engineered to accommodate such products. It is
essential that hazardous wastes are not transported through residential areas and that the
transports are marked as "Hazardous Materials" and the appropriate hazard rating
provided. The transportation routes must be formalised and communicated to the relevant
authority.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       207



Environmental ana Manacement rian ror rne r%an aria tnon ,estrucrurnQ t-ro'eci
Processing/recovery
Limited processing/recovery currently takes place at the ports where workers remove oils
from site for personal use or discarded oils are used for the maintenance of the railways.
There was no evidence of recycling at any of the ports. The following recycling activities
should be expanded and improved upon in the ports:
Cans;
Glass;
Paper and cardboard.
It is recommended that the port authority set up pilot projects e.g., recycling initiatives,
entrepreneurial opportunities around waste, which involve partnerships and job creation.
These initiatives could be facilitated though donor funding or joint ventures. Community
buy-in and the involvement of the schools in the area are critical to the success of this
initiative.
It is recommended that the practice of Industrial ecology be investigated at each of the
ports. Industrial ecology promotes the downstream utilisation of waste products (i.e. the
waste product of one organisation is the raw material of another).
There appears to be one hazardous waste incinerator in Mozambique, situates near to the
Port of Maputo, although this was not specifically seen. Hazardous wastes may be
incinerated at this facility although the practice must be carefully controlled.
Waste disposal
All general and office wastes should be disposed through the municipal system in suitably
engineered landfill sites. LG Mouchel & Partners (1994) suggest that all wastes be taken
to the municipal landfill sites. This practice is strongly discouraged since it will only result
in the transfer of potential environmental hazards.
With regard to hazardous waste, the following is recommended, in the short-term:
- The disposal of wastes along the foreshore cease immediately. These areas must be
rehabilitated and the waste products removed treated as explained below.
- wastes are stored and transported from all ports to the incinerator in Maputo and
incinerated at adequate temperatures. It is essential that the wastes are bumed at
sufficiently high temperatures since semi-burned wastes have the potential for creating
significant health risks. The ash from the incinerator must be landfilled into the
municipal system that, although not ideal, would serve a better function than foreshore
dumping.
The incineration of waste is not necessarily the Best Practical Environmental Option,
therefore, for the sustainable long-term clisposal of waste, it is recommended that the ports
authority work closely with the municipalities to identify suitable sites for hazardous waste
disposal.
impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        208



CliviluMoaullec alFu ivilidLidQQloiCI rlcd/l oui *"Rv Fwj dlJU r-ut Avz:a1uLjU1jjWU  r.uvei,,
These sites should have the following key environmental attributes:
- Suitable geology, hydrogeology, climate and topography;
- Near to the key generators of hazardous waste yet away from residential areas.
In any event, it is envisaged that wastes will need to be transported from the northern ports
down to Maputo for disposal, therefore, it is essential that these port make provision for
such transport and for the storage of wastes in the interim. It is recommended that wastes
be transported by ship from the north and that an auditable inventory of wastes placed
onto and off-loaded from the ship be taken.
WASTE MANAGEMENT TRAINING
It is recommended that an introductory level Waste Management training course be
developed. On the basis of the needs assessment, a pilot project could be identified within
one of the sectors which would test the introductory level educational material being
developed (e.g. for general workers in industry or within local government, or even within a
residential community).
Waste awareness programmes
Waste awareness programs should be initiated amongst the general public to encourage
support of recycling initiatives.  The programs should also build awareness and
understanding of hazwaste disposal needs and facilities to counter the emotional reaction
to hazwastes in general.
Institutional capacity buildina
Sustainable waste management in the Ports is dependent on political response.
Therefore, it is proposed that capacity building initiatives be implemented amongst political
decision-makers and senior govemment officials.
Institutional Structures for Waste Management
The successful implementation of the above recommendations will depend on suitable
institutional structures. It is strongly recommended that:
- The port authorities will be primarily responsible for sustainable waste management at
the ports.
- To develop and implement a waste management plan in accordance with policy which
addresses the siting, design and commissioning of hazwaste storage, processing and
disposal facilities.
- To implement appropriate methods and practices for proper identification and
classification, packaging and transport, treatment and disposal, and administrative
control of wastes.
- To implement an effective manifest system for tracking hazardous wastes which are
transported from the point of generation off-site to the point of final disposal.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        209



t:nvironmentesl dfiu ivaicwalld c:rlsta r-cai w:  ,,, .a , -, -,- , V,_^,- ,,,,   __,
- To facilitate the elimination all unlicensed, illegal hazardous waste recycling and'
disposal operations and practices.
- To gain public and investor confidence in the ports capacity and willingness to manage
hazardous wastes in an environmentally acceptable and socially responsible manner.
In addition to the port authority's responsibilities, concessionaires should be required to do
the following:
- Identify sources, quantities and characteristics of industrial waste generated (existing
and projected) within or by industry, and as a result of consumer use of manufactured
products
- Identify opportunities for waste minimisation, waste reuse etc and integrated waste
management
In addition, the management of wastes at the port creates opportunity for private
enterprise, through:                                                                 - '
- The provision of waste management expertise, services, facilities and equipment;
- The promotion of private sector's capacity and the benefits of joint ventures in waste
management, with industry and the puiblic sector;
-  Creating and promoting awareness and education programmes; and
- The participation in/contribution to the port's public awareness and integrated waste
management initiative.
- The creation of a Local Environmental Action Forum (LEAF) at each of the ports could
facilitate and assist in the formulation and implementation of an integrated waste
management plan. The LEAF would typically be a multi-stakeholder forum which
would include the ports authority, local govemment officials, the community, and
NGO's/CBO's.
CONCLUSIONS
It is evident that the current.practice of waste management has the potential for significant
environment and health hazard. The problem will be increased should private enterprise
be allowed to continue in an uncontrolled waste management framework.
The improvement of waste management practice should be a relatively simple exercise,
where:
1. There are controls on the nature and volumes of waste;
2. The volumes of wastes generated are reduced;
3. Wastes are collected and stored under environmental acceptable conditions;
4. The practice of haphazard storage andl dumping is ceased immediately;
5. Wastes are transported to their prcicessing or disposal sites adequately and with
specified and the practice of industrial ecology is encouraged;
6. Current hazardous waste disposal practices are ceased immediately;
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        210



r   l_ 41VJiU  ll 1V1t0i   I OVIO c1 ;111  vliu ll   I Iciii  WuI tI 7l I n 1itl t1 L )u l £; iX    JL.lU I 110W   r4lu.1e Lt
7. The port's authority works closely with local and national government to identify and
devleop suitable hazardous waste disposal facilities.
The provision of suitable waste management should be facilitated through a suitably
enforced port authority who, with the buy-in of concessionaires, investors and the local
population should accept responsibility for the effective management of waste.
6.9. EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY FOR THE PORTS,
HARBOURS AND RAILWAYS OF MOZAMBIQUE
The diversity of activities at ports throughout the world e.g. the handling of a broad range
of potentially hazardous and/or inflammable materials, and the operation of heavy-duty
mechanical equipment necessitate the implementation of a worker safety and health
policy. Such a document should take the form of a set of safety rules and guidelines that, if
adhered to, will minimise the risk of injury to workers across the full spectrum of routine
port activities.  A document pertaining to the safety rules for employees must be
formulated and published.
The following points of employee safety and health are considered to be of primary
importance:
- General Safety Rules
- Maintenance and Operation Of Machinery
- Fire Safety
- Personal Protective Equipment
- Hazard Identification
- Guidelines for employee safety and health policy for the ports, harbours and
railways of Mozambique is given in ANNEX 3. These could be developed into a
brochure for distribution to workers.
6.10. OPERATIONAL EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION (OEM) -
CFM and concesionnaires must develop operational capacity to deal emergencies and
disasters. This should include responses for manst other emergencies: minor fires, major
fires, explosions, product or material spillage for corrosive/poisonous liquids, air pollution
A possible format for Operational Emergency Organisation (OEM) protocols is given in
ANNEX 4.
6.11. ESTABLISHMENT OF NORMS AND GUIDELINES FOR DREDGING
Preamble
The need for strict control over dredging related activities is clealry illustrated in the
following paragraph taken frm the ports and harbours section of the World Bank guidelines
for environmental impact assessment (World Bank Technical Paper No.139, 1991).
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      211



Environmental and Management Plan for the hal and Pon 1-lestructunna froiect
- "Maintenance dredging is performed in approach channels and
harbour basins to maintain depth and width and ensure safe access
for large vessels.   The dredged materials from  maintenance
dredging typically present a greater disposal problem than deeper
sediments removed during construction dredging, since surficial
sediments are composed of recently deposited materials that are
usually contaminated. These younger sediments usually contain
natural and anthropogenic contaminants and can arrive from
atmospheric fallout, erosion oDf local land surface and channel
banks, fallout from biological activity in the water column, sediment
transport from inland waters, point source dischargers, and surface
runoff from the surrounding area. To mitigate potential contaminant
release from the port area, the following should be addressed:
proper design of stormwater handling and treatment facilities;
sewage and wastewater outfal,s; local land use (e.g., proximity of
agricultural fields or mining operations); procedures for handling
hazardous materials; and types of industries permitted to operate in
the port area`-
Regular maintenance dredging of channels and the marine terminal berths are performed
in Maputo, Beira and Quelimane. A major loophole for environmentally responsible
management of the dredging process in Mozambique is the non-definition of the authority
that is responsible to permit dredging operations.
It will, therefore, be necessary to establish permitting agencies and procedures of
controlling the dredging activities. The following questions are relevant:
-Who must authorise dredging activilties?
-What procedures and documents require a permit?
-How long is the authorisation valid for?
-Who controls environmental monitoring?
-What standards must be used as indicators for environmental monitoring?
It is evident that a clear policy and regulations are required to enable environmentally
sound dredging and material management. Although by definition this task falls under the
responsibility of INAHINA, CFM must be consulted at all levels and stages during the
process.
Development of a Guideline Document for Dredged Material Disposal
Guidelines for evaluating dredged material management altematives must be elaborated.
These guidelines shall describe a consistent technical approach for evaluating dredged
material management alternatives (see below). A broad range of dredged material must be
addressed, both clean and contaminated, and the broad array of management alternatives
presented: confined (diked intertidal and upland) disposal, open-water (aquatic) disposal,
and beneficial-use applications.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                     212



tnvironmenwai ano w,anaQeinwit r'-iaiu lo' lne ,-a,, di'ui r-u riesgugcuIigiQ t-'lecm
Application of the framework document will allow for consistency in decision-making across
statutory boundaries and consideration of the full continuum of dredged material
management options whilst enhancing co-ordination among the agents dealing with
dredging.
Production of a Manual on Beneficial uses of Dredged Material.
It is suggested that a manual should be developed describing implementation strategies for
beneficially using dredged material. The manual will discuss recent statutory changes that
will allow greater opportunities for beneficial-use projects..
Co-ordination
Because the governing statutes have established shared responsibility between the future
concessionaires, the success of the environmental management plan is contingent on the
effective coordination and cooperation between the interested agencies. Coordination
should ensure that dredged material aquatic disposal sites are managed in a consistent
manner whether they are in the deep ocean, an estuary, or a river.
General Dredging Recommendations
Improvements to the environmental regulatory process alone will not eliminate all the
current fragilities identified with dredging and dredged material disposal activities.
A more comprehensive examination of all the issues associated with these activities must
be undertaken. The following recommendations, must be addressed:
-   A more ecological and integrated assessment must be adopted to define new
dredging programs and the evaluation of existing projects.
-   Adequate information on which to base decisions must be provided.
-   Appropriate studies should be undertaken where there is insufficient scientffic
information.
-   Prevention of sedimentation and contamination at their sources must be
emphasised.
-   Mechanisms to improve coordination, particularly in the early stages of a
proposed project, between governmental and non-governmental parties involved in
dredging should be developed.
-   Additional research must be carried out to increase knowledge of the function of
undisturbed ecosystems and habitats, the response of living marine resources to
dredging and disposal activities, and the refinement of models to predict short- and
long-term outcomes of habitat alterations and other effects of dredging operations.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        213



Environmental and Management Plan tor ne Kaji ana ron m&uutiwluII"cJ r,-U,I&I
- Exposure of marine organisms to contaminated sediments occurs on a continual basis
in our harbours and ports. That accounts for the prevalence of "dead zones" in these
areas. Such exposure is increased aind expanded by dredging operations themselves.
Current dredging practices "stir up" sediments so as to increase turbidity.
- Increased levels of contaminants dissolve in the water where the sediments are stirred
up, and predators such as fish ancl birds feed on contaminated fauna in the water
column.
Compilation of Existing Information
Preparation of a Sampling and Analysis Plan
Sampling
1. Sediment Samplers
2. Numbers or Samples or Cores Required
3. Selection of Sampling Sites
4. Subsampling of Cores
5. Volume of Sample Required
6. Frequency of Sampling
7. Sample Collection, Storage, Preservation and Labelling
8. Quality Assurance and Quality Control
Analytical Parameters (Contaminants to be Analysed)
Laboratories and Chemical Analysis
1. Approved Laboratories
2. Sample Pre treatment and Analysis
3. Detection Limits
Laboratory Quality Assurance and Quality Control
Laboratory Quality Assurance/Quality, Control
Data Validation
Sample Treatment                                                                     54
Toxicity and Bio-accumulation Testinig
1. Introduction
2. Guidelines
Sediment Quality Assessment
1. Sediment Chemical Data
2. Statistical Comparison of Means and Guideline Values
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       214



tnvironmental ano ivianaaemeni t-ian [or tne Kall anfa ioT Hestructunno Project
Exemptions from some Testing Requirements
1. Clean Material
2. Large Capital Dredging Projects in Remote Areas
3. Small Dredging Programs
Excavation Material
Data Analysis and Reporting
1. Physical and Chemical Characteristics of the Disposal Site and Surrounding
Areas
1.1.Water Column
1.2 Sea Bed
2. Marine Communities at and Surrounding the Disposal Site
2.1 Existing Information
2.2 Field Studies
3. Bio-accumulation
3.1 Existing Information
3.2 Field Studies
4. Other Uses of the Area
5. Impact Assessment
6. Monitoring
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                           215



I



Environmental and Management lran ror tne Hail ano r-on &estructunnq I-rolect
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Preamble
The following section is an example of terms of reference (TOR) outlining in explicit detail
the scope of tasks which require completion- and the personnel required to conduct an
environmental assessment of port and harbour facilities (including dredging). Expertise is
required in a broad range of disciplines in order to design relevant data collection
protocols, analyse and interpret the data, and make objective recommendations in the
context of the problems at hand. It should be noted that if the TOR are confined to
dredging, this does not preclude a comprehensive analysis of port-related activities as they
represent a range of potential sources of pollution to the sediments to be dredged and
disposed of.
Sample Terms of Reference (TOR)
An Environmental Assessment of Port and Harbour Facilities
Description of the Project Operations and Activities.
- Disposal option for dredged materials should be specified as open-water, shoreline or
upland, and whether treatment or containment will be necessary, especially if the
materials are contamined.
- Dredging equipment requirements based on physical and chemical character of dredge
material, disposal site, and physical conditions at the dredge site.
- Transportation requirements such as terminal facilities and berths, barges and vessels,
pipeline, roads, and disruption of transit for commercial and recreational users,
- Energy-producing operations, including solid wastes, emissions, and discharges and
their quantities, and transport and handling procedures for fuels and other hazardous
materials.
- Port-related industries, which may be developed and serviced by the facilities including
hazardous material, handling, storage, processes, and disposal, special energy, needs,
and waste disposal requirements.
Legislative and Regulatorv Consideration. If open-water disposal in international
watersides is being considered then the requirements of the London Dumping Convention
(1972), Oslo Convention (1974), and Paris Convention (1978) should be evaluated. In
addition, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) should be consulted for guidelines
pertaining to releases and discharge from ships.
DETERMINATION OF THE POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Dredge Material Characterization Studies. Studies of the physical and chemical character
of the dredge materials is important for selecting appropriate dredging equipment and
disposal options, estimating quantities of different material, and designing monitoring
programs and mitigate measures. All slumping results should be statically representative
of the project area (i.e., vertical and horizontal extent) to ensure proper environmental
planning and reduce the likelihood of encountering contaminated "hot spots'.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                      216



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinq Project
Screeninc for Sensitive Environments. Field evaluation of the ecosystems and
communities in the project area environs will provide information concerning direct and
direct impacts or pervasive, sensitive, and or treated and endangered components of
potentially affected systems. For example, alteration of flow within an aquatic system could
yell adverse impacts on a downstream mangrove.
Effluent Characterization Studies. These may be necessary to design appropriate water
pollution control options for the facilities and industries. Ideally, one should identify sanitary
wastewater streams, cooling water streams, and process water streams.
'Null Zone' Identification. The existing location and potential relocation from development
activities should be determine to mitigates the rate of sedimentation and saltwater intrusion
as well as reduce the frequency of maintenance dredging activity.
Consulting Team. The consultant team for preparation of an EIA for inland navigation
projects should include members from the following professional disciplines: environmental
impact specialist, team leader; civil/environmental /port engineer (s) with experience in
dredging projects, port and harbour development, and water- based transport, aquatic or
marine biologist , or other specialist depending on the dredging site and natural
resources which could be impacted; surface water hydrologist; land -use planner; and
socioeconomist.
6.12. OIL SPILL MANAGEMENT
Measures to control and manage localized oil spills in the port and harbour areas are
presented in the preceding section. There is, however, the need for the formulation of a
national oil spill contingency plan.
Although the formulation of a national oil spill contingency plan is the responsibility of the
Maritime Authorities (SAFMAR) it is apparent that CFM, by the nature of their activities,
must be fully involved in the process of formulation of the plan.
For any oil spill occurring in the coastal waters of Mozambique it is essential to initiate
response operations as quickly as possible. For this purpose, establishment of operational
rules and procedures, definition of authorities and agencies, together with their
responsibilities, need to be formulated. Such a body should then be in a position to
immediately compile information pertaining to incident location, area characteristics,
incident origin, type of polluting product, product specifications etc. These elements are
the essential components for compiliing guidelines for follow-up oil spill response
operations.
Mozambique is a member country of the Intemational Maritime Organization (IMO). As
one of the organization's standards Mozambique must comply with the Marine Pollution
Compensation Convention (CLC and FUND) and to two more recent conventions
concerning marine pollution namely MARPOL 73178 and OPRC 90. The responsibility for
compliance currently lies with a number of recently created institutions (SAFMAR and
MICOA) which at present lack formal links in this context. This is a problem that requires
attention.
Mozambique's major international ports (Maputo, Beira and Nacala) together handle about
1400 calls annually in both intemational and domestic trade, among which are large
tankers handling both unrefined and refined oil products. This trade is mostly confined to -
lmpacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        217



Environmental and Management Plan for the RaiY and Port Restructuring Project
the Mozambique channel and as such provides the greatest potential pollution threat to the
country's coastal environment.
At present there exists an awareness of this risk exposure but currently, formal
preparedness to respond to such potential disasters is lacking. There is, however, a
political commitment to addressing marine and coastal environmental issues in
accordance with internationally adopted and applied standards.
It is apparent from the above preamble that plans for drafting a contingency plan for
response to oil spills is still in its infancy. Therefore, it is important that in the interim, the
country explores other alternative measures for the containment and cleanup of any oil
spills which may occur in the near future. We recommend that some formal agreement is
reached with an existing Oil Spills Operational Center through negotiation with SAFMAR
and CFM. These negotiations must specifically address issues such as response times,
clean up operations, immediate and long term impact on the natural environment,
identifying the cause of the oil spill, establishing who is responsible and determining the
extent of compensation required.
Checklists for response, containment, cleanup and restoration for an oil or hazardous
substance spill are outlined below. This information may be useful to SAFMAR and CFM
for the development of a National Contingency Plan for oil spill management. It should be
noted that these lists do not substitute for a future National Contingency Plan. This
remains the responsibility of SAFMAR and CFM.
The lists are provided only for general guidance. All decisions made regarding actions
taken remain the jurisdiction of SAFMAR and CFM. These primary response agencies
shall also ensure that all other appropriate natural resource agencies are promptly notified
of any discharges or releases that are injuring or may injure natural resources under their
jurisdiction. Overall co-ordination will remain the responsibility of SAFMAR and CFM.
Initial Information
The following information should be provided by the spiller or reporting agency:
-  Time of call
-  Caller Name, Address, & Phone Number
- Vessel/Facility Information
-  Name
-  Name of Vessel, Railcar/Truck Number or other identifying information
- Type of vessel/facility
-  Nationality (Vessel Only)
-  Location of Incident (Specific)
-  Date & Time of Incident (or when discovered)
- Type of Incident (Explosion, Grounding, etc.)
-  Pollutants/Substances Released
-  Source of Material Released
-  Estimated Amount Spilled
- Total Potential Quantity
-  Total Already Released
Spill/released into Air, Ground, Water or Subsurface
- Weather/Sea Conditions
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                        218



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinq Project
- Point of Contact (Responsible! Party Name, Phone & Address)
- Vessel/Facility Agent(s) (Name & Phone)
- Name of Carrier
- Number & Type of Injuries or Fatalities
- Whether Evacuations have occurred
-  Estimated Dollar amount of Property Damage
- Other Agencies Notified
Initial actions
- Dispatch response team
- Initiate chronological log of events
- Begin site safety assessment including threat of fire or explosion
- Secure or isolate source
- Define nature of incident
- Determine Responsible Party
-  Determine environmental impact
-  Determine status of spill
- Determine movement of spilled product
-  Determine environmental resources/vulnerable areas at risk
-  Evaluate severity of incident and the need for additional resources
- Initial assessment of incident severity
- Estimate duration of spill response efforts
Initial Actions for Oil Spill and Hazarclous Substance Incidents
SAFMAR and CFM shall undertake a preliminary assessment of a release or threat of a
release as promptly as possible. This assessment should be based on readily available  -'
information. If during the course of this assessment, it is apparent that natural resources
have been or are likely to be impacted, SAFMAR and CFM shall ensure that other services
and agencies are notified.
Proposed Response Strategy:
- Evaluate level of response needed for incident
- Most probable discharge
-  Maximum most probable discharge
- Worst case discharge
- Evaluate if special circumstances exist requiring special action
- Hazardous Substance Release
- Fire/explosion
- Impacts to populated areas
- Evacuation of Threatened Population
- Requirements for Access Limitation (barricades, security fences, etc.)
- Requirement to collect and analyse samples (air, water, soil as appropriate) for
evaluation/source determination
- Collision
- Vessel grounding
- Lightening operations
-  Salvage operations
- Implement Geographic Response Plan for location
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - Man,h 1999                        219



Environmental and Manacement Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinq Proiect
-  Implement support infrastructure.
- Determine response structure that will be used, and from there determine level
of support needed to fill positions in the structure
- Mobilise personnel
- Determine personnel needed for response, and identify source of personnel.
- Ensure personnel are properly trained, and health and safety issues are
addressed.
- Mobilise equipment
- Type of equipment needed
- Quantity
- Location - staging area
- Support needed:
- Boats, trucks, cranes etc.
- Transportation Aircraft support for transporting equipment
- Additional requirements
- Contact list
- Implement logistics support network
- Logistics needed to support personnel:
- Food
- Lodging
- Additional clothing
- Logistics needed to support response:
- Adequate communications
- Command post - Establish command post in location to support response
- Air support
- Coast Guard and Auxiliary
- Other agencies
- Private sources
- Determine local impacts
-  Impact on water intakes:
- Drinking water (Alternate supplies)
- Transportation of fresh water supply
- Address funding issues
Containment and Cleanup
- Strategy
- Offshore considerations
- Nearshore considerations
- Shoreline considerations
- Inland considerations
- Sensitive areas
- Staging areas
- Integrated Containment/Cleanup System
- Booming and containment
- Trenching and Diking
- Siphon Dams (for floating substances)
- Filter Fences (for floating substances)
- Water Sprays
- Stream Diversion or Impoundment
- Gelling or Chemical Agents
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                         220



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Project
- Recovery of spilled product and contaminated debris. (test for components of
recovered product)
- Temporary storage
- Transport of collected materiail for disposal
- Monitor oil movement
- Overflights
- Continue to monitor proximity of spill to sensitive areas
- Use of dispersants, other chemicals or other spill mitigating devices or
substances including in-situ burning
-  Determine type and location of shoreline cleanup
- Set aside areas for research purposes and countermeasure effectiveness
determination
-  Monitor and refine cleanup strategies
- Develop criteria/guidance for terminating cleanup
Removal and Waste Disposal
-  Outline disposal plan
-  National laws/regulations
- Volume of oil or hazardous substance for disposal
- Identify disposal locations (onsite vs. offsite)
- Obtain necessary permits
- Secure transportation for procluct disposal
Demobilisation
Final survey
- Clean/return equipment
-  Survey/replace equipment                                      -                -
- Restore damaged areas
C-onsultation with appropriate agencies and property owners
6.13. TRAINING
In order to implement the EMP it will bie necessary to formulate and implement a human
resources development programme for environmental awareness and management for
CFM staff.
A programme of training should target all staff members but especially those personnel
with an environmental portfolio. This can be achieved by training workshops co-run by
CFM in collaboration with experienced environmental training organisations, in house
training etc.
The course material may include:
- Current environmental policies, legislation and regulations
- Environmental planning
- Environmental risk assessment
- Environmental management and monitoring
- Contractual safeguards for environmental management
- Health and safety procedures
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       221



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurinai Project
The end-product of this process would be the creation of personnel with the necessary
competence to ensure continued sound environmental management at all CFM
operations, and to maintain legal compliance by keeping track of any change/updating of
existing legislation.
Having acquired a baseline knowledge of relevant environmental issues, such personnel
should now be in a position to incorporate this knowledge in any future planning and policy
formulation exercises that CFM may wish to implement, as well as in the overseeing of day
to day routine operations.
6.14. CONFORMANCE WITH ISO 14001 STANDARD
It is recommended that in the long term CFM should seek conformance with ISO 14001,
a widely accepted international standard for environmental management. Seventeen EMS
elements are included in the ISO 14001 Standard:
Environmental policy: Develop a statement of commitment to the environment. This
policy as is then used as a framework for planning and action.
Environmental aspects: Identify environmental attributes of activities and operations;
determine those that could have significant impacts on the environment.
Legal and other requirements: Identify and ensure compliance with relevant laws and
regulations.
Objectives and targets: Establish environmental goals in line with the policy,
environmental impacts and views of interested parties.
Environmental management program: Plan actions to achieve objectives and targets.
Structure and responsibility: Establish roles and responsibilities and provide resources.
Training, awareness and competence: Ensure that employees are trained and capable
of carrying out their environmental, health and safety responsibilities.
Communication: Establish processes for intemal and external communications on
environmental management issues.
EAMP documentation: Maintain information on the EMP and related documents.
Document control: Ensure effective management of procedures and other system
documents.
Operational control: Identify, plan and manage operations and activities in line with your
policy, objectives and targets.  -
Emergency preparedness and response: Identify potential emergencies and develop
procedures for preventing and responding to them.
Monitoring and measurement: Monitor key activities and track performance.
Nonconformance and corrective and preventive action: Identify and correct problems
and prevent recurrences.
Records: Keep adequate records of EMP performance.
EAMP: Periodically verify that the EMP is operating as intended.
Management review: Periodically EMP with a view to continual improvement
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                     222



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructuring Proiect
ISO 14001 requires an agency to:
Develop an environmental policy with a commitment to compliance;
Have a procedure for identifying enviromental impacts
Have a procedure for identifying and having access to environmental laws and regulations;
Set objectives and targets that are in line with its environmental policy (which includes a
commitment to compliance);
Establish operational control procedures;
Establish procedures for emergency preparedness and response;
Establish a procedure for periodically evaluating compliance
Components of EMP have, where possible, been formulated so that CFM and operators
may, through a process of further development, revision and refinement, develop an
management system which is in full conformance with ISO 14001:
POLICY
The formulation of an Environmental 'Policy constitutes the basis for sound environmental
management. Guidelines for CFM's environmental policy are presented in Section 3 .
IDENTIFICATION OF IMPACTS
To plan for and control significant environmental impacts the operator must first identify the
origin and nature of the impacts. Mechanisms for identifying actual or proposed impacts at
various levels of CFM/concessionaire's operations are described in the EMP these
include:
- Preliminary enviromental screening (chlecklist)
- Detailed assessmant and monitoring
- Full-blown environmental impact assessments (ElAs)
Legal and Other Requirements
Applicable and relevant policy, legislation, regulations and conventions are presented in
this report (see Chapter 6). This should form the basis for CFMs compliance with the legal
requirements of Mozambique. However, new regulations are currently being formulated
(e.g. EIA regulations, SAFMAR regulations etc.) and CFM must establish a mechanism for
up-dating this information and ensuring that these requirements are factored into the
CFMs operations and efforts.
Objectives and Targets
Objectives and targets are the basis for actions. Several Strategic Objectives and
associated Actions have been identified in the EAMP. Over time these will be refined and
further developed and refined.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                     223



Environmental and Management Plan for the Rail and Port Restructurina Proiect
OPERATIONAL CONTROL PROCEDURES
Operations and activities such as handling, storage and treatment of wastes and
hazardous compounds, terminal operations, offloading, dredging etc. could affect the
environmental performance of CFM significantly.
To ensure that environmental policy is followed and that objectives are achieved, certain
operations and activities are controlled. These controls should take the form of
documented procedures in order to ensure regulatory compliance and consistent
environmental performance. Procedures can also play a key role in employee training.
Procedures for Emergency Preparedness and Response.
The possibility of accidents and other emergency situations always exists. Effective
planning and preparation can reduce injuries, protect employees and neighbours, reduce
asset losses and minimise production losses.
An effective emergency preparedness and response programme should include
provisions for:
- Assessing the potential for accidents and emergencies (such as fires, explosions, spills
or releases of hazardous materials, and natural disasters)
- Potential emergency situations hazardous materials used on-site and their locations
- Key organizational responsibilities
- Preventing incidents and their associated. environmental impacts;
- Plans/procedures for responding to incidents;
- Periodic testing of emergency plans/procedures; and,
- Mitigating impacts associated with these incidents.
- Training is needed or if emergency plans/ procedures should be revised.
- Arrangements with local emergency support providers
- Procedures and guidelines for emergency preparednes and response are provided in
the EAMP.
PROCEDURES FOR PERIODICALLY EVALUATING COMPLIANCE
Periodic evaluation is necessary to:
- Gauge your environmental performance;
- Analyse any problems;
- Identify areas where corrective action is needed; and,
- Improve performance/increase efficiency.
Procedures in the form of regular environmental auditing are developed for CFM to:
- Monitor key characteristics of operations and activities that can have significant
environmental impacts; only necessary and required data must be collected to
determine the impact of an activity.
- Track performance (including how well objectives and targets are met);
- Through internal audits, periodically evaluate compliance with applicable laws
and regulations.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999                       224






REFERENCES
Atlantic Coastal Action Program (ACAP). 1997. A Comprehensive
Environmental Management Plan. St. Harbou, Inc. March, 1997.
ALUSAF. 1998. Estudo de Impacto Ambiental das Linhas de Transmissao para
a Fabrica da MOZAL. Impacto Lda.
BAD. 1993. Massinger Dam and Small holder Agricultural Rehabilitation Project,
Mozambique. NORPLAN/Austral Colsultoria e Projectos, Lda.
Brinca, L. and Palha de Sousa, 1984. 0 recurso de Camarao de Aguas Pouco
Profundas in Seminario Conjunto Mo,ambique/NORAD sobre "Os Recursos
Marinhos de Mo,ambique" Rev. Inv. Pesq. 9:45-61. Instituto de Investigagao
Pesqueira, Maputo.
Brinca, L., V. Bundnitchenko, A. J. da Silva and C. Silva. 1980. Shallow-water
shrimp and by cathc, oceanography. A report on a survey with the RN "Ernest
Haeckel" in July-August 1980. Revista de Investigagao Pesqueira N° 6.
Caminhos de Ferro de Mogambique. 1997. lnforma,ao Estatistica, Maputo.
CFM. 1998. Port of Quelimane - Organization and Management Action Plan.
CNP. 1991. Enumerafao da Popula,co e Agregados Familiares das Cidades e
Alguns Distritos e Postos Administrativos de Mo,ambique, Junho 1991. Gab.
Cent. De Rec. Unid. Pop. E Plan.
DANIDA. 1987. Danida Food Security Project. Main Report.
Direc,cao dos Servicos dos Portos, Caminhos de Ferro e Transportes. 1965.
Regulamento da Explora,ao dos Cais dos Portos de Louren,o Marques,
Inhambane, Quelimane, Mo,ambique (Ponte-Cais do Lumbo), Nacala,Porto
Amelia e Mocimboa da Praia.
DHV Consultants. 19.. (1) - Estudosd das 12 Cidades - Quelimane.
De Freitas, A.J. 1986. Selection of Nursey Areas by six Southeast African
Penaeidae. Estuar. Coast. Shelf Sci. 23: 901-908.
INE. 1996. Anuario Estatistico da Zambezia
INE. 1998. Mo,ambique em Numeros. Instituto Nacional de Estatistica.



Ernest Young ART C. 1997. Beira Rumo ao Seculo 21. Governo da Provincia
de Sofala. Direc,ao de Piano e Finan,as. Conferencia 25-27 de Novembro de
1996.
Fisher, W.; I. Sousa; C. Silva; A. De Freitas; J.M. Poutiers; W. Schneider:
T.C.
Borges 1992. Guia de campo das especies comerciais marinhas e de aguas
salobras de Mo,ambique. FAO. Projecto PNUD/FAO MOZ/86/030.
GERAP. 1985. Piano Director dla Cidade de Nacala. Centro de Estudos
Cooperativos de Organiza,cao e Projecto, CRL.
Government of Mozambique/lIICN. 1993. Mozambique: Nacala Coastal
Resource Management Project.
HIDROTECNICA PORTUGUESA 1974 - Estudos Preliminares para o Plano
Director de Nacala.
Hudges, G. 1971. Prteliminar Report on the Sea Turtles and Dungongs of
Mocambique. Veterin. Mocamb., 4 (2): 45-62. Louren,o Marques.
J.P. F6ral; and A. Massinga. 19910. Guia de Campo das Especies Comerciais
Marinhas e de Aguas Salobras de Mogambique. FAO, Rome. 424 p.
Lereno Barradas. 1955. Reconhecimento Agro-ecol6gica de MoQambique.
Maputo  Corridor Revitalization  (Technical Assistence  Project). 1994
Environmental Analytical Services. Overseas Development Administration.
MARPOL 73178. 1991. Intemational Maritime Organization. Consolidated
Edition, 1991.
MICOA. 1998. National Biodiversity of Mozambqiue.
Minist6rio da Administrarao Estatal. 1998. Monografia do Distrito de Monapo.
Impacto, Lda.
Nedeco/CFM. 1982. Beira Port Study. Access Channel Study. Main Report.
Kingdom of the Netherlands,Ministry of Foreign Affairs and People's Republic of
Mozambique, Ministry of Ports and Surface Transport, Maputo.
O'DONNEL, H. 1940 - Estudo geol6gico das forma,6es existentes no sub-solo
da baia de Nacala, junto da Ponta jde Maiaia.
OLIVEIRA, M.F. 1972 - Geologia cia Baia de Nacala.



Tetra Co. Ldt 1998. Draft Final Report. The Study for Maintenance and
Improvement Plan of Beira ort in the Republic of the Mozambique. Overseas
shipbuilding Center. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and Ministry
of Transports and Communications of the republic of Mozambique, Maputo.
Paula e Silva, Rui and Lizette Palha de Sousa. 1998. Semi-quantitative
Description of Mrine and Estuarine Communities in the Savana Area (Central
Mozambique). (Specialist Study on Marine Environment-Step 1). Impacto
Lda/l P.
Porto e Caminhos de Ferro de Nacala - Direc,co dos servi,os de Portos,
Caminhos de Ferro e Transportes. Boletim da Sec,ao de Propaganda e
Publicidade. Louren,o Marques. Junho 1971.
Palha de Sousa, L.; L. Baltazar; and E. Dionisio, 1991. Relat6rio do cruzeiro
de Investiga,co do recurso de camarao do banco de sofala em Abril/89 com o
Barco da Escola de Pesca "Canopus" Rel. Cruz. 27. Intituto de Investiga,co
Pesqueiro, Maputo. 41 p-
Palha de Spousa, L. 1992. Relat6rio do Cruzeiro de Investiga,cao de Camarao
no Banco de Sofala, com o Barco de Pesca Comercial "Arpem IV" em Janeiro de
1992. Instituto de Investiga9cao Pesqueiro, Maputo. (ms).
PNUD. 1997. Perfis de Desenvolvimento Distrital.
Steen, J.E. and A.M. Hoghuane. 1990. Oceanographic results on Expoedition
carried out on RNA "Dr. Fridtjof Nanser" in Mozambican Waters during April-may
1990. Rel. Cruz 13. Instituto de Investiga,co Pesuqiro, Maputo.
Saetre, R. and R. de paula e Silva. 1979. Ths Marine Fiosh Resources of
Mozambique. Reports on surveys with the RN Dr. Fridtjof Nansen. Servi,os de
Investiga,6es Pesqueiras, Maputo, and Instituto of Marine Research, Bergen,
179 pp.
Silva, C., L. palha de Sousa and A.M. Caramelo. 1991. Relat6rio do Cruzeiro
de Investaiga,co de Camarao no banco de Sofala realizado com o Barco de
Pesca Comercial 'Arpem V\ de 14 a 25 de Janeiro de 1991. Rel Cruz 31 Instituto
de Investiga,co Pesqueiro, maputo. 45 p.
SOUSA LEITAO. 1965. Possibilidades hidrograficas dos portos de Mo,ambique.
Comissao Tecnica de planeamento e integra,co Econ6mica.
Tinley, K.L. 1971. Determinants of Coastal Conservation: Dynamics and
Diversity of the Environment as Exempliefied by the Mo,ambique Coast.
Proceedings of the Symposium on Nature Conservation as a Formn of Land Use.



Gorongosa National park, Mogambique, 13-17 September, 1971. Pp.: 125-152.
Southern African regional Commission for the Conservation and Utilization of the
Soil. Pretoria, R.S.A.
Tinley, K.L. 1977. Framework of the Gorongosa Ecosystem. PhD Thesis.
University of Pretoria, Faculty of Sciences, Pretoria.
VELOSO, E.S. 1969. Estudos geologicos da regiao de Nacala.
World Bank Technical paper. 1'191. Environmental Assessment Soucebook.
Vol. Ill. Guidelines for Environmental assessment of Energy and Industry
projects. Environmental Department. Washington, D.C.



