Report No. PID7290
Project Name                     Mozambique-Rail and Port Restructuring...
Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       MZPE42039
Borrower                         Government of Mozambique
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Transport CFM
Date of PID                      January 8, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         February 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 8, 1999
Project development objective
To substantially increase the operating efficiency of the three major port-
rail systems in Mozambique and enable them to increase its share of the
available freight traffic, mostly the export/import traffic from the
neighboring countries. This would enable:
The concessioned ports and railways to become financially self-sustaining as a
result of substantial increase in revenues and cost reductions;
CFM to increase its earnings from concession/leasing fees and pay dividends to
GOM after meeting its expenses and its liability for long-term infrastructure
replacement;
The neighboring countries to reduce the surface transport costs of their
exports and imports as a result of increased use of shorter routes, increased
efficiency of operations, and use of railways in preference to roads; and
Mozambique to generate more foreign exchange as a result of the neighboring
countries' payment in foreign exchange for the use of rail and port facilities
in Mozambique.
Project Description Summary
The project would comprise the following five main component categories and a
total of 9 sub-components. A brief description of the components follows.
Component 1. Concessioning
Concessioning of main sea ports, airports, and railways. This component would
focus on provision of consultant services to advise the Government on a
strategy to attract private participation in sea ports and railways and on
structuring concessioning arrangements for the main port-railway systems and
airports.
Component 2. Staff Rationalization
Various studies show that CFM, with a total employment of nearly 22,000, is
grossly overstaffed. Average labor productivity indicators in both the rail
and port sectors are well below those in neighboring countries and elsewhere.
Based on a detailed staff inventory and functional analyses for each system,



the estimated staff requirements are about 8,200, leaving a surplus of close
to 14,000. CFM has already identified individual redundant staff while
recognizing that final redundancy levels will be determined by the
concessionaires who will select staff from the existing CFM pool according to
need. Concerned about the large numbers of surplus workers involved, the
Government of Mozambique and CFM have developed a staff rationalization
program to minimize the social effects of restructuring and privatization in
consultation with workers and the union. The staff rationalization program
consists of three main components: (i) financing of severance payments to
staff being retrenched or retired early; (ii) creation of a pension fund for
the rail and port staff employed by CFM or concessionaires; and (iii)
provision of redeployment support to help workers find alternative jobs or
become self-employed.
Component 3. Corporate Restructuring
This component would focus on provision of consultant studies for the spin-off
of the commercial activities of CFM under a new holding company, and the
provision of consultant services, equipment, and of learning and dissemination
activities to enable the implementation of the recommendations of the study
thereof.
Component 4. Institutional Reform
This component has two sub-components: (i) organizational assessment of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC); and (ii) regulatory reform.
The Ministry sub-component would comprise a study to review the new
organizational requirements of MTC in a framework dominated by an increasing
private participation in transport, and the provision of consultant services,
equipment, and of learning and dissemination activities to enable the
implementation of the recommendations of the study. The Regulatory Reform
sub-component, would include a study for the development of an independent
regulatory framework for the transport sector, and the provision of equipment
and twinning services to enable the launching of the Regulatory Unit(s) and
the preparation of its(their) staff thereof. In addition, finance would be
provided under this component for the first three years of operation of the
Unit(s).
Component 5. Tertiary Ports
This component would include rehabilitation works for the small ports of
Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane, initially considered under the
IDA-financed ROCS 1 Project. This component would also include consultant
services for the supervision of civil works and for the preparation of a study
on the revitalization of the Inhambane Port.
Environment aspects
An Environment Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared by CFM/GOM with
assistance from external consultants. The plan has been prepared , taking
into account the safety- and environment-related regulation included in
Mozambique's transport sector policy and the railways-related legislation.
EMP would form an integral part of the Performance Contract to be signed
between GOM and CFM and of all the concession contracts. The progress of
-2 -



implementation would be periodically reviewed. The concessionaires would be
required to make specific allocation of funds for procurement of safety- and
environment-related equipment for the railways and the ports, and for
technical assistance and consultancy studies, if required.
Project implementation
Implementation period: Five years from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004.
Executing agencies: (a) The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) for
components pertaining to the Regulatory Framework, MTC's Restructuring and
Capacity Enhancement, Tertiary Ports Rehabilitation, and Privatization of
Airports; and (b) CFM for components pertaining to the Corporate Restructuring
of CFM, Privatization of the Port-Railway Systems, Staff Rationalization,
Staff Retraining and Redeployment and Social Mitigation, and Establishing the
Pension Fund.
Project coordination will be undertaken by the Ministry of Transport and
Communications and the Project oversight would be provided by a High Level
Committee to be especially set up for this Project
Project Financing
Component                Category        Indicative    W of      Bank-      W of
Costs        Total      Financing  Bank-
(US$M)                  (US$M)     Financing
Concessioning           Institutional    5.2           6.8       1.8        34.6
Ports and Railways     Building         4.6           6.0       1.2        26.1
Airports                                0.6           0.8       0.6        100.0
Staff Rationalization   Institutional    49.8          64.6       47.4      95.2
Staff Redundancy       Building         40.0          51.9       40.0      100.0
Pension Fund                            0.6           0.8         0.6      100.0
Staff Redeployment and                  9.2           11.9        6.8       73.9
Social Mitigation
Corporate              Institutional     2.3           3.0         2.3      100.0
Restructuring          Building
Institutional          Institutional     7.9           10.3       6.7        84.8
Reform                 Building          1.1           1.5        1.1        100.0
MTC Restructuring                       6.8           8.8        5.5        80.9
Regulatory Framework
Tertiary Ports         Physical         11.2          14.5        11.2       100.0
PPF Refinancing       Institutional      0.6           0.8        0.6        100.0
Building
Total              77.0          100.0      70.0         90.9
- 3-



Project Sustainability
The long-term sustainability of the port and rail systems in Mozambique would
be enhanced under the Project by: (a) the very implementation of the project
which focuses on long-term private concessions for the ports and railways in
Mozambique: (b) reorienting CFM's remaining operations to their most
competitive and productive advantage; (c) balancing the pace of the
concessioning process to reflect existing capacity constraints; (d)
emphasizing transparency in the selection of the private concessionaire in
order to optimize the value of the concession; and (e) addressing
implementation issues in sufficient detail in the concession agreements so as
to preempt any possible legal action namely by setting a credible,
independent, and fast system for the settlement of disputes.
The long-term sustainability of operations of the three Zonal port-railway
systems would also depend upon the efficient operation of the railway systems
in the neighboring countries. To ensure this, RPRP would provide assistance
to CFM in: (i) setting up institutional mechanisms, one for each of the
neighboring railways, to facilitate close coordination among the entities
managing the different segments of the rail route; (ii) developing agreements
between the neighboring railways with regard to using the same, if not
similar, rolling stock management systems, each other's workshop facilities;
(iii) easing transit formalities at the borders; and (iv) collaborating in
developing and implementing regional marketing strategies.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lesson 1: With Government-appointed managers managing without adequate
authority, motivation, commitment, and accountability; continuing government
interference in their management; and political considerations distorting
rational decisions, most railways and ports in sub-Saharan Africa, with only a
few exceptions, have been unable to become financially self-sustaining or
sustain financial sustainability, if achieved. To enable the railways and
ports to become financially viable and self-sustaining, the proposed Project
would focus on private sector involvement in ports and railways through long-
term concession agreements.
Lesson 2: Every railway and port in the sub-Saharan African region is
overstaffed, some even to the extent of about 200 to 300 percent. As
recognized by railway managements in the region, whether managed as it is or
through private participation, the railways and ports are unlikely to become
financially viable unless surplus staff is retired/retrenched.
Lesson 3: Massive investments in infrastructure, locomotives, rolling stock,
and communication systems have generally been ineffective in improving
reliability or efficiency partly because the investments were not always
directed at removing the most critical constraints, and partly because the
publicly-managed railways were incapable of managing big projects, modern
technology, or complex equipment. The proposed Project would, therefore,
require that the future investments in railways and ports are linked to firm
government plans for the concessioning of the port-railway systems and the
selected private concessionaires share the risk in proportion to their equity.
Lesson 4: A change in the legislative framework which affects the railways
and ports is important as most past legislation is generally restrictive of
- 4 -



their autonomy, particularly with regard to its organizational restructuring,
commercialization, and privatization. In the case of CFM, modifying the
legislative framework would be particularly essential in view of the proposal
to restructure CFM to separate commercial functions and to establish a holding
company to take responsibility for these functions.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 29, 1999.
- 5 -



