                                      40012


         REPUBLICOF MOZAMBIQUE




             PROJECT PAPER

                  ON

         RESTRUCTURINGOF THE


RAILWAYS AND PORTSRESTRUCTURINGPROJECT


           PROJECTID:P042039


             CREDIT NO.:32880

40012

                                                                                40012

                                  DATA SHEET FOR

                                   PROJECT PAPER

Date: May 28 ,2007
Country: Mozambique                            Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
ProjectName: Railways and Ports                Country Director: Michael Baxter
RestructuringProject                           Environmental Category: B
Proiect ID: PO42039
Borrower: REPUBLIC OFMOZAMBIQUE
Responsible agency: (i) means Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moqambique E.P
                           "CFM"




Board approved           N o
RVP approved             Yes

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?    N o
Have these been approved by Bankmanagement?                               Not Applicable
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              N o

Revisedproject development objective/outcomes [Ifapplicable]

Not Applicable

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? Ifso, click hereto
indicate which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR]

NO




IBRD/IDA
Others




`AtM  a y 2007 exchange rate
  At May 2007 exchange rate
                                             2

40012

                                                                                   40012
                            Project Paper on Restructuringof
                MozambiqueRailwaysandPorts RestructuringProject

                                   ProjectID:P042039

                                    Credit No.:32880


1.      Introductory Statement. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive
Directors to introduce the following changes in the Mozambique Railways and Ports
Restructuring Project, Credit No 32880, Project ID MZ-PA-42039, and accompanying
amendments to the project's legal documents.

The restructuring o f the project and consequently the extension o f the Credit closing date
as requested by the Borrower, are necessitated by: (a) changes in country priorities that
require adjustment in the project design to accommodate new realities; and (b)
opportunities that exist for enhancing the impact o f the project development objectives
(PDO) under the project which i s otherwise performing well.

The major modifications being proposed are: (a) dropping o f the Tertiary Ports
Component aimed at rehabilitating the ports o f Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia,
and Pebane; (b) introducing a new component to support the rehabilitation of the jetties
of Maputo, Catembe, Inhambane, Maxixe, Quelimane, and Recamba and the
procurement o f new ferries and other vessels for transport on water; (c) introducing anew
sub-component to support the rehabilitation o f the Ressano-Garcia line, a part o f the
Maputo railway system; (d) the reallocation among disbursement categories; and (e) the
extension o f the closing date by 13 months, from May 31, 2007 to June 30, 2008. The
project's Results Framework has been refined accordingly, wherever affected by the
above modifications.

The proposed changes will have no implications on the original development objectives.
The modifications represent approximately 19% o fthe total credit amount.

2.      BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring.

The DCA was signed on October 28, 1999 and the Credit became effective on March 28,
2000. The Project Development Objectives are: i)to increase the operating efficiency o f
the Borrower's three major port-rail systems thus enabling the Borrower to increase their
share o f the international freight traffic from the neighboring countries and ii)to
strengthen the transport sector policy, the regulatory framework, and the institutional
capacity o f the Ministry o f Transport and Communications (MTC). The original Project
design and scope has six components as follows: (a) Concessioning o f Portos e Caminhos
de Ferro de Mopmbique's (CFM) Ports and Railways; (b) Staff Rationalization and
Social Mitigation; (c) Corporate Restructuring o f CFM; (d) M T C Strengthening; (e)
Regulatory Framework; and (f) Tertiary Ports.

Overall, the Project has performed satisfactorily with regard to the development
objectives and implementation. However, some targets have not yet been entirely met and

                                            3

                                                                                     40012
the proposed restructuring and extension of the closing date would enable the targeted
outcomes and development objectives to be achieved infull.


The main instrument for achieving the PDO was to involve the private sector in the
operation and management of Mozambique's three major Rail and Port Systems. The
three major ports, (viz., Maputo, Beira, and Nacala) and two o f the three major railway
systems (Beira and Nacala) have so far been concessioned and are operational. This has
resulted in substantial improvements of their operating efficiency. Hence, inthis respect
the development objective has been substantially achieved. However, its full potentialhas
not yet been entirely tapped due to the following reasons: (i)  with the exception o f Beira
Port, all other concessions experienced delays of almost 4 years before they became fully
operational which in turn resulted in delayed rehabilitation o f infrastructure and other
assets and revitalization o f operating systems; (ii)serious damage to the Limpopo line (a
part o f the Maputo railway systemwith linkage to the railway network inZimbabwe) due
to heavy flooding in 2000, whose rehabilitation took almost 4 years; and (iii)the
cancellation o f the concession for the Ressano-Garcia line (another part of the Maputo
railway system linking with the railway network in South Africa) three years after
signing due to factors beyond the control of the Borrower resulting inpostponement o f
the urgently needed line rehabilitation. (The bidder who was awarded the concession
could not reach financial closure and take over the railway because o f a breakdown inthe
internal structure o f the consortium when his major partner and key player in the region,
Spoornet of South Africa, pulledout from the consortium.)

The project outcomes have been substantially achieved, but some key traffic targets are
yet to be met. Within the last six years, international traffic handled at the concessioned
ports has increased by over 45% (Maputo 69%; Beira 13%; Nacala 29%) from 7 million
tons in2001 to 10.3 milliontons in2006 (now exceeding the target o f 10 m. tons). While
total railway traffic has beensteadily increasing over the past three years, tonnage carried
in 2006 was only slightly above the levels in 2001. International cargo amounted to
approximately 3.5 million tons, significantly short o f the initial target o f 7 million tons.
There are several reasons for missing the targeted cargo volumes: (i) in the    delay
operationalization o f the various concessions; (ii)   cancellation o f the Ressano-Garcia
concession and poor condition o f the line (iii)serious downturn in the Zimbabwean
economy leading to a reduction in imports and exports. Zimbabwe i s a major user o f
Mozambican ports and railways (mainly Machipanda and Limpopo) and the downturn
has affected railtraffic as well as throughput at the ports o fMaputo and Beira.

The total disbursement at mid May 2007 was SDR 65.67 million (equivalent of about
US$ 99 million) out o f the total Credit o f SDR 73.80 million (about US$110 million
equivalent). Most outputs under the Project have been achieved. Inparticular: (a) except
for the Maputo railway system, all other major ports and railways have been
concessioned; (b) staff rationalization has been completed and about 13,635 staff
membershave been retrenched andprovided with counseling and redeployment support;
(c) the restructuring o f the post-concession CFM has been completed; (d) key studies
pertaining to the restructuring and strengthening o f MTC, the regulatory framework,
transport costs, and development corridors have been completed; and (e) many staff o f
M T C have beenprovided with specialized training. However, there has been no progress

                                             4

                                                                                   40012
regarding the rehabilitation of the tertiary ports due to lack of private sector interest.
Subsequent to in-depth discussions with the Client and among the project team, this
component has been proposed to be dropped and replaced by the rehabilitation o f key
jetties for passenger and minor cargo ferry services and the procurement o f ferry boats to
strengthen Mozambique's fluvial transport.

Implementation was initially slow partly because o f inadequate experience o f
concessioning o f railways and ports in the region, inadequate investor interest, and
presence o f factors beyond the control o f the GovernmentKFM.               Even after the
concessionaires were identified and concession agreements signed, the concessionaires
took an inordinately long time for obtaining loans and coming to financial closure
presumably because o f the risk perceptions o f the financiers. As a result o f that, a first
extension o f 18 months was granted inorder to ensure full realization o f the development
objectives. The Project implementationhas since been satisfactory as i s evident from the
achievements ofproject outcomes and outputs so far.

         ProposedChanges. Theproposed changes inthe Project design are as follows:

         The component for the rehabilitation o f the four tertiary ports o f Angoche,
         Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, andPebaneis proposed to be dropped;
         A new component to support the rehabilitationof six jetties at Maputo, Catembe,
         Inhambane, Maxixe, Quelimane and Recamba; and in that connection, provision
         o f ferries and other vessels for transportation over water i s proposed to be
         introduced including enhancing the capacity o f M T C to manage environmental
         impacts;
         A sub-component to support the rehabilitation o f the Ressano-Garcia line and
         provision o f technical services to supervise the rehabilitation i s proposed to be
         introduced;
         An extension of the closing date by 13 months from May 31, 2007 to June 30,
         2008 i s beingproposed and
         An adjustment of the project's Results Framework is being proposed where
         affected by the modifications o f components.
         A reallocation of funds among disbursement categories is proposed to reflect the
         revised project costs associated with the change in components as described
         above.

Tertiary Ports: Improving tertiary port infrastructure and strengthening related fluvial
transport services in the country i s an important component o f GOM's transport policy
and the Government has been requestingthe Bank's assistance in that regard for a long
time. The Tertiary Ports component was contingent upon private sector concessions,
which could however not be achieved due to lack o f private sector interest and very poor
terms offered by the few parties that did express interest. Consequently, the GOM had to
revise its strategy and decided to shift efforts to strengthen fluvial transport by
rehabilitating jetties at sites o f high socio-economic impact and replacing outdated ferry
boats by modern and efficient vessels inorder to increase access and mobility o f the rural
and urban poor and enhance the local traffic that feeds into the tertiary ports. As traffic
increases through the tertiary ports over time, the ports may be re-considered for private
sector involvement at the opportune time. The dropping o f the rehabilitation o f the

                                                5

                                                                                   40012
tertiary ports frees resources in the amount o f US$ 9 million which had originally been
allocated for this component. These funds would now be used to meet the GOM's
renewed request to support the strengthening o f the overall water transport system along
the coast.

Rehabilitation of jetties and water transport equipment. In its plan to strengthen the
fluvial transport system, M T C requested the Bank's assistance to rehabilitate           the
Maputo-Catembe, Inhambane-Maxixe, and Quelimane-Recamba jetties and replace
current vessels by modern ferry boats. The Project team visited the sites and agreed that
the dilapidated jetties and the aging ferries and boats needed replacement. The demand
for the services i s strong, and based on the high Economic Rate o f Return (ERR)3o f the
proposed investment (discussed under Section 4), the Project Team has proposed the
introduction o f this new component. The total estimated cost amounts to US$15 million,
representing about 14% o f the credit amount.

Maputo Railway System: The Maputo Railway System consists o f three lines, viz.:
Ressano Garcia, Goba and Limpopo. The cancellation o f the Ressano-Garcia concession
has adversely affected the project outcomes and the development objectives. While
initially the Bank's intention was to mediate among all concession parties and solve the
outstanding issues duringthe first extension o f the project, this solution became obsolete
with the cancellation of the concession inJuly 2005. The designated concessionaire was
expected to rehabilitate the line as part o f the concession agreement but due to his failure
to take over and subsequent cancellation o f the concession, the rehabilitation o f the line
did not take place and its condition has worsened since. After cancellation, all
stakeholders saw the need to carefully reassessthe future strategy for the line, resultingin
a longer than expected process o f consultations and assessments. CFM and South African
Railways (Spoornet) have agreed on a strategy to increase the use o f the line for traffic
originating and terminating in the north-eastern part o f South Africa. The strategy
requires that the line be first rehabilitated by CFM to acceptable standards to enable the
trains to move safely and fast. This job was earlier expected to be undertaken by the
concessionaire. The rehabilitation i s absolutely essential to winning the customers'
confidence to use the line. It i s estimated to cost about US$20million and part o f the cost
(US$5 million) is proposed to be met from the proceeds o f the IDA Credit. The
rehabilitation of the Ressano-Garcia line will allow a sustainable commercial
arrangement for the operation of the line, thus unfolding its full potential and,
consequently, that o f the port o f Maputo, which it feeds into. The Credit will support 25%
o f the total rehabilitation cost o f USD 20 million, through procurement o f rails and
fundingo fthe independentsupervisionengineer to ensure adequate quality. Besides other
reasons, the setbacks experienced with the Ressano Garcia Line led the GOM to hold off
the concessioning o f the two other lines o f the Maputo Railway System, Limpopo and
Goba. Both lines continue to be operated by CFM for the time being.

Extension of closing date. Initially the Bank intendedto complete all outstanding project
activities duringthe first extension. While significant progress had been made interms o f
staff rationalization and social mitigation (now completed) and the corporate
restructuring o f CFM (completed with the exception o f the Pension Fund Study and


  At a 12%discount rate.
                                                6

                                                                                 40012
Railway Regulation), the issues related to the Ressano-Garcia Concession could not be
resolved and the change o f events necessitated a second 18-month extension. While the
outcome o f the Ressano-Garcia concessionwas unclear inMay 2005, the GOMhas inthe
meantime taken decisions that dispelled all uncertainty existing at the time o f the first
extension. The GOM decided that CFM would rehabilitate the Line without further delay.
CFM has already commenced rehabilitation works. In December 2006 approval for a
second 18 months extension (from December 31, 2006 to June 30, 2008) was sought,
which management endorsed. However, as an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
for one o f the modified components hadnot beencompleted and cleared by ASPEN, only
a preliminary five-month extension until May 31, 2007 was granted. The EIA has now
been concluded and cleared by ASPEN. M T C has arranged for it to be disclosed locally,
inparallel to its disclosure at the World Bank's Infoshop (scheduled for May 25, 2007).
During the past five months the other components have progressed as follows: (i)a
preferredcontractor has been identified for the rehabilitation o f Inhambane-Maxixe, (ii)
the tendering documents for works in Maputo-Catembe have been completed and M T C
will invite bidsimmediately after extension o fthe project, (iii) manufacturing o f ferry
                                                               the
boats i s progressing according to the manufacturer's schedule and (iv) rehabilitation
works on Ressano Garcia are advancing and the rehabilitation i s expected to be
completed byAugust 2007.

The team i s now seeking approval for extending the closing date by the remaining 13
months until June 30, 2008. The proposed extension would ensure the successful
implementation o f the proposed components and the full realization o f the development
objectives.

Additionally, the proposed extension will allow the following sundry smaller tasks to be
brought to satisfactory completion: (a) establishment o f a unit within the Ministry o f
Transport and Communications to monitor compliance with concession agreements
(currently undertaken by CFM); (b) Finalization o f an Impact Study evaluating the
Development Corridor Initiatives and identifying the lessons learnt and steps moving
forward; and (c) Review o fMozambique's Maritime Legislation to align it with IMO and
all other relevant industry standards and codes.

The change of components as described above requires the full utilization o f the
unallocated amount as well as a minor reallocation o f funds between disbursement
categories. The Civil Works category under the Ministry o f Transport and
Communications component i s being increased by SDR 0.537 million. Similarly, the
combined allocation for goods (CFM and the Ministryo f Transport and Communication)
will rise by SDR 2.111million. A final adjustment of CFM retrenchment is being made
in the amount of SDR 0.557 million. All additional requirements (total of SDR 3.205
million) will be offset by the use o f unallocated funds (SDR 1.07 million) and savings in
other categories as follows: i)SDR 1.462 million out o f Consultants' services and ii)
SDR 0.673 million out o f Training. The final allocation by disbursement category is
presentedinAnnex 3.

As regards the Financial Management o f the project, all audit reports are up-to-date and
have been made available to the Bank. For the year 2005 the auditors had issued a
qualified opinion on MTC. The borrower and the Bank's local Financial Management

                                              7

                                                                                                40012
 Specialist worked out an action plan to remedy the issues as per the auditor's
 recommendations. As o f today, all major issues have been resolved. One outstanding
 issue pertains to a recording difference in MTC's records and those o f Loan Accounting.
 Since this difference i s immaterial and no other issues are pending, the restructuring
 package has been clearedbyAFTFM.

 There will not be any complementary changes in: (i)institutional arrangements; (ii)
 financing mechanisdconduit; (iii)project costs and financing plan; (iv) financial
 management; (v) disbursement arrangements; and (vi) procurement arrangement.

4.        Analysis.

Replacing the tertiary ports component will not adversely affect the ERR o f the Project.
The ERR for the tertiary ports component was estimated at 35% while the ERR for the
entire project, based on the weighted average o f the different components was 53%.

The overall ERR o f the newly-introduced component for the rehabilitation o f jetties and
introduction o f ferries i s 52%. With reduction in benefit4 o f 25% and increase in cost o f
25%, the ERRcomes to 34%, still much above the acceptable level.

As regards the railway component, the expected ERR of concessioning and revitalization
will not change. The proposed investment was essential and would have beenundertaken
by the concessionaire if the concession had not been cancelled. To ensure efficient
operations, CFM intends to revise the Business Agreement with Spoornet (South African
Railways) as a result o f which Spoornet will have the rights to operate trains from
originating sites in SouthAfrica to the port o f Maputo usingits own locomotives.

The proposed changes do not raise the environmental category o f the project or trigger
new safeguardpolicies. The rehabilitationo fRessano-Garcia line was to beundertakenby
the concessionaire andwas already considered inassigning the environment category. The
impact o f rehabilitating thejetties has been assessed and summarized inan Environmental
Impact Assessment. The jetty rehabilitation component i s limited to existing structures;
hence no major adverse effects are being anticipated. Likewise, the rehabilitation works
themselves will not pose negative impacts that could not be remedied by the contractors
during the construction period. Lastly, the introduction o f new boats will result in
enhancement o fthe environment quality.


5.       ExpectedOutcomes.

The expected outcomes from the restructured project would increase availability o f
reliable water transport for the affected population o f Mozambique and enhance the
realization o f the original project outcomes with regard to the country's rail and port
traffic from and to neighboring countries. The adjustments do not necessitate any changes
to the Project Development Objectives but contribute to its full achievement. Where


4 Benefits comprise the time savings o fpassengers and reduction intransport costs compared to the
alternative o f more resource-intense road travel.
                                                    8

                                                                                   40012
applicable, the intermediate outcomes, outputs and results have beenrefinedinthe Results
Framework (see Annex 2).

6.       ExpectedBenefitsandRisks.

BeneJits

Mozambique's fluvial transport has suffered from neglect o f maintenance and investment,
which has resulted in reduced service and shut-down o f some routes. Transmaritima, the
designated ferry operator ceased operations in 3 locations and i s now only running
Maputo-Catembe, and Quelimane-Recamba with limitations. If not revived, service will
have to be scaled down or even discontinued on some routes, with the result o f passenger
and cargo traffic having to switch to more expensive and time-consuming road transport
or even to die down where such i s not available. Hence besides the benefits o f lower
transport costs and time savings as calculated in Section 4, this component will guarantee
access and mobility o f the rural population (combined catchment area estimated to house
5 million people). Furthermore, improved infrastructure will help increase cargo traffic
and hence support local industries. In the case o f Inhambane it will, for instance, be
beneficial to the local fishing industry. Due to the advanced state o f degradation and the
lack o f adequate lifting equipment, fishing boats have been avoiding Inhambane and are
forced to dock at more distant locations at increased transport costs.

The rehabilitation of the Ressano-Garcia line will ensure reliable and faster train
operations, thus removing one o f the major concerns o f Spoornet to use the line
extensively. This should lead to considerable growth in traffic on the line, the traffic
originating from customers located inthe north east o f South Afkica. The extensive use o f
the Ressano-Garcia line will reduce the surface distance for the freight traffic by about
200 k m s and corresponding reduction in the transport cost o f these customers by about
US$6 per ton. Increased revenue for the Maputo rail system and the port o f Maputo will
improve their financial performance.

Risks

At this point, crucial high-leveldecisions have beentakenbythe GOM and any additional
changes are very unlikely. As already elaborated above, the rehabilitationo f the Ressano-
Garcia Line has already started with CFM funding and the viability o f the line and its
attractiveness has beenproven.

Similarly, the designs for rehabilitation o f jetties have been completed and in the case o f
Inhambane-Maxixe, the GOM has completed the tendering process and i s ready to award
the construction contract to the preferred bidder. M T C has also selected a supplier for the
ferries, which can guarantee manufacturing and full delivery within less than one year.
There is a small risk that the actual traffic will be below the forecast. However, all of the
routes have been served before and historic data exists and lack o f equipment and poor
state o f infrastructure i s mostly the cause for low or declining traffic at some o f the
locations over the past years. Additionally, due to the geography o f the sites, road
transport has no clear competitive advantage at any o f the locations. Inthe case o f Maputo
Catembe, decision makers are considering the construction o f a bridge by a private

                                                9

                                                                                    40012
investor. However, these plans are at a very early stage. Furthermore, due to the level o f
expected investment, tolls would have to be at such a highlevel, that ferry transport would
still be ina position to compete and capture sufficient traffic.

 The team sees no other apparentrisks that couldjeopardize the achievement o fthe PDOs
 or outcome targets, includingbut not limitedto political, policy-related, social/
 stakeholder-related, macro-economic, financial, institutional, or capacity-related risks.




                                            10

                                                                                     40012
Annex 1

               Railwaysand PortsRestructuringProject(Cr. No. 32880)
                                           Action Plan

    1. Introduction.All the institutional and reform-related components of the Project
    have already been completed. This includes the concessioning o f the port-railway
    systems which could be concessioned, staff retrenchment, staff redeployment
    assistance, restructuring o f post-concession CFM, strengthening o f the Ministry o f
    Transport, various diagnostic and reform-related studies, and staff training. No
    actions on these components arepending.

    2. The activities for which the extension i s being sought comprise the strengthening
    o f the fluvial transport system in the country and the rehabilitation o f part o f the
    Maputo Rail System, viz., Ressano-Garcia Line and the marshalling yard. For these
    activities also, the initial actions o f designing, preparingspecifications, and preparing
    the bidding documents have been completed. Only the procurement actions are
    pending.These actions alongwith the target dates are givenintheProcurement Plan.

    3. Additional time needed to complete implementation and planned
    disbursements. An extension o f 18 months (of which 5 months extension was
    granted as an interim measure to facilitate preparation o f the EIA for the jetties
    component) has been requested on the basis o f the time required for implementation
    o f the most time consuming component, viz. jetty rehabilitationat (Maputo, Catembe,
    Inhambane and Maxixe), which i s estimated to take 12 months after the finalization
    of the contract, for which ano objection to award has been issued inApril 2007.

    4. Actions to be taken to meet the revisedclosingdate.The following actions will
         .
    be taken to meet the revised closing date:

            The procurement of works and goods has been planned in detail and precise
            dates have been fixed for the finalization o f bidding documents, invitation for
            bids, evaluation, and signing of contracts and delivery/installation for all the
            remainingitems and the last contract will be signed by July 2007;
            All specified dateswill becloselymonitored; and
            Progress by the selected contractors and vendors will be closely monitored.

    5. Monitorable performance indicators that will be used to determine
         .
    compliancewith the Action Plan.The following will bemonitoredclosely:

            The finalization o f request for proposal, invitation for proposals, evaluation,
            and signing of contracts and delivery/installation as indicated in the
            Procurement Planbelow (Table 1).

6.       Studies for CFM. A decision on these studies will be taken in May 2007 after:
(a) the bids for the rehabilitation o f the Maputo-Catembe jetties have been received and
the requirement o f funds for these components have been firmedup; and(b) the studies
    can be completed within the revised closing date.

                                                11

40012

              40012




3Y    i5   E
      Y    7    EY




      In
      -4
      rn


       I

                40012




     EY




     v
     E




                      m
                      3




rn
-E-
m




           Y

40012

40012

                         40012



          0
          9




               2;:
               c c N C

               0 0
               In
               m od-.
               ma3
               T-*
               UJ
               m


c
.-0
Q)

a
2




..
U




n
.-0alE

