Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19085-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.8 MILLION
(US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
RAILWAYS AND PORTS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
September 14, 1999
Transport Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 16, 1999)
Currency Unit = Metical (Mt)
Mt 1,000 = US$0.081
SDR 1 = Mt 16,740
US$1.00 = Mt 12,355
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT              =    Build, Operate, and Transfer
CFM              =    Portos e Caninhos de Ferro de Mocambique, E.P.
DANIDA           =    Danish International Development Assistance
DGIS             =    Direktoraat Generaal International Samenwerking
EIRR             =    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP              -    Environment Management Plan
EU               -    European Union
FINNIDA          =    Finnish International Development Agency
FRR              =    Financial Rate of Return
GAPROMAR         =    Gabinete de Projectos Maritimos, Ministry of
Transport and Communications
GOM              =    Government of Mozambique
INAC             =    Instituto Nacional de AviacAo Civil
IRF              =    Infrastructure Reserve Fund
KfW              =    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LACI             -    Loan Administration Change Initiative
MTC              =    Ministry of Transport and Communications
mtpa             =    Million tons per annum
NPV              =    Net Present Value
ODA              =    Overseas Development Administration
PAS              -    Project Account Section
PMR              -    Project Management Report
SADC             =    Southern Africa Development Community
SARL             -    Sociedade Anonima de Responsabilidade Limitada
SATCC            =    Southern Africa Transport & Communications Commission
SIDA             -    Swedish International Development Authority
SRSAP            =    Staff Redeployment and Social Adjustment Program
SRP              =    Staff Rationalization Plan
NORAD            =    Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
USAID            =    United States Agency for International Development
Vice President          :         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director        :         Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager          :         Yusupha B. Crookes
Team Leader             :         Yash P. Kedia



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
Railways and Ports Restructuring Project
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
1. PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                        ...........................2
2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .....................................................................2
B.  STRATEGIC   CONTEXT  .....................................................................2
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT.. 2
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .......................................................2
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ................4
C.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   SUMMARY   .....................................                                                ................................4
1. PROJECT  COMPONENTS ....................................................................4
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .......... .............7
3. BENEFITS AND  TARGET POPULATION  ..........................................7..........................7
4. INSTITUTIONAL  AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS  ......................                                                   ..........................8
D. PROJECT RATIONALE .....................................................................9
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ...........                                                               ..................9
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ... 1 0
3. LESSONS LEARNED  AND  REFLECTED  IN  THE  PROJECT DESIGN  ................                                                  ........................ 10
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ................                                                          ........................ 11
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ........................................................ 1 1
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...................................................................                                                                11
1. ECONOMIC ...................................................................                                                                    11
2. FINANCIAL .................................................................... 12
3. TECHNICAL ...................................................................                                                                   14
4. INSTITUTIONAL ...................................................................                                                                14
5. SOCIAL ........................................................................... 15
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ...................................................................                                                    16
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ...................................................................                                                      16
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ......................................................................                                                            16
1. SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................................                                                             16
2. CRITICAL  RISKS ................................................................... 17
3. POSSIBLE  CONTROVERSiAL  ASPECTS .................................................                                         .................. 17
G.  MAIN   CREDIT  CONDITIONS  ................................................................... 18
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS ......................                                         ............................................. 18
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................                                                            19
I.  COMPLIANCE  WIT'H   BANK   POLICIES  .................................................                                              ................... 1 9



List of Annexes
Annex 1.             Project Design Summary .............................................. 21
Annex 2.             Detailed Project Description ..............................................                                25
Annex 2.1            Detailed Background and Current Status of Ports and Railways Concessioning. 32
Annex 3.             Estimated Project Costs ..........................                                                         36
Annex 4A.    CFM's Past and Current Performance ..........................                                                      37
Annex 4B.    Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .......................... 39
Annex 4C.    Financial Analysis Summary ..........................                                                              44
Annex 5.    Financial Summary ..........................                                                                        50
Annex 6.             Procurement, Disbursement and Accounting, Financial Reporting
and Auditing Arrangements ..............................................                                  51
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................ .....  55
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ............... ...... 56
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds ..............................................                      57
Annex 7.             Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..............................................                      58
Annex 8.             Documents in Project File ..............................................                                   59
Annex 9.             Statement of Loans and Credits ..............................................                              60
Annex 10.            Country at a Glance .............................................. 61
Annex 11.            Letter of Development Policy for the Transport Sector ....................................... 63
Annex 12.            Social Impact Analysis of the Proposed Earlier Retirement and
Retrenchment of the CFM Staff .67
Map:                 IBRD No. 30191



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND) DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AFRICA REGION
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
Railways and Ports Restructuring Project (RPRP)
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Date:                 September 14, 1999            Team Leader:         Yash P. Kedia
Country Director:    Phyllis R. Pomerantz          Sector Manager:       Yusupha B. Crookes
Project ID:          MZ-PA-42039                    Sector:               Transport
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment Credit    Theme(s):             Privatization
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [  Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data    []Loan    [x] Credit        []Grant       []Guarantee      [3 Other Specify
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$100.0 million /SDR 73.8 million
Proposed Terms:            0 Multi Currency          [x] Single currency, specify  [ Fixed
Grace period (years):    10
Years to maturity:    40
Commitment fee:    0.5%
Service charge:    0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    0.0%
Financing plan: US$120.0 million
Local              Foreign               Total
Government                                       20.0                   0.0                20.0
IDA                                               74.0                 26.0                100.0
Total         94.0                 26.0                120.0
Borrower: Republic of Mozambique
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and
Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique, E.P. (CFM)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
2000            2001            2002             2003            2004
Annual:          30.0            20.0             15.0            15.0            20.0
Cumulative:         30.0             50.0            65.0            80.0            100.0
Project implementation period: Five years; January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: January 1, 2000        Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agencies: Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and
Portos e Camninhos de Ferro de Mocambique, E.P. (CFM)
Contact persons: Mr. E. Uamusse (MTC)                    Mr. Rui Fonseca (CFM)
Addresses: Av. Martires de Inhaminga 336,           Caixa Postal 2158,
Caixa Postal 276, Maputo, Mozambique    Praca dos Trabalhadores, Maputo,
Mozambique
Ph. 258 ( 1) 424447 Fax: 258 (1) 424240  Ph. 258 (1) 431706 Fax: 258 (1) 431703



- 2 -
A:  Project Development Objectives
1. Project Development Objectives (see Annex 1):
The main objective of the Project is to substantially increase the operating efficiency of the three major port-rail
systems in Mozambique and enable them to increase their share of the international freight traffic of the
neighboring countries. The increase in freight traffic should enable: (a) the neighboring countries to reduce the
surface transport costs of their exports and imports resulting from use of shorter routes, increased efficiency of
operations, and use of railways in preference to roads; (b) the ports and railways in Mozambiqueto become
financially self-sustaining; (c) Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Movambique, E.P. (CFM) to increase its net income
(net of its own expenses and provision for long-term infrastructure replacements) and, consequently, be in a position
to pay dividends to the Government of Mozambique (GOM); and (d) Mozamnbique to generate more foreign
exchange from the neighboring countries' use of railways and port facilities in Mozambique. A related but equally
important objective is to strengthen the transport sector policy, the regulatory framework, and the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC).
2. Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1):
The level of the neighboring countries' international traffic moving over the port-railway systems in Mozambique
is proposed to be used as the main indicator of performance. The indicator is not only easy to monitor, it is
strongly correlated to and is a good proxy indicator of the Project expectations indicated above,viz., reduction in the
cost of surface transport of the neighboring countries' international traffic, improvement in the financial self-
sustainability of the ports and railways, increase in CFM's net income, and increase in the net foreign exchange
earnings for the country. Level of financial flow from CFM to GOM and completion of the various key activities
and actions under the Project as per the agreed schedule are proposed to be used as other indicators of
perfornance.
B:   Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project: (see Annex 1):
CAS Document number: 17180-MOZ Date of latest CAS discussion: December 18, 1997.
A central pillar of the Bank's assistance strategy calls for promoting dynamic growth that is sustainable and
broadly based from a geographical, environmental, and socio-economic viewpoint. Private sector led growth
includes developing local enterprise as well as partnership with foreign capital. Along with continuing economic
policy reform, IDA, IFC, and MIGA are to combine efforts to support the development of high potential growth
sectors, transport being one such sector. Supporting the transport sector through the Railways and Ports
Restructuring Project (RPRP) is an important component of the CAS strategy. Given its importance for the
economy, progress in concessioning of the Maputo, Beira, and Nacala port-railway systems has been included in
the CAS as one of the key base case indicators.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
The Railways and Ports are not Financially Self-sustaining. There is no explicit financial support being provided
by the Government for CFM's operations, but CFM has not been able to service its outstanding external loans
since 1987 even though CFM has been: (a) paying salaries amounting to about US$3.5 million annually to staff
who retired during the last four years or so but whose pension settlement has not been finalized as yet by the
Ministry of Planning and Finance; and (b) undertaking public service obligations to the extent of US$10.0 million
each year. CFM also does not have adequate capacity to finance long-term replacement of its infrastructure and
operating assets. As a result, the arrears of maintenance are mounting and can be cleared only with substantial



financial assistance from the Government. The main reason for CFM's current insufficiency of resources is the
slow building up of confidence with its traditional neighbors after a long disruption of business relations due to
the war situation in the country and the consequent adverse impact on the efficiency of operations and quality of
services. The current revenue generation is about half of the real potential of the three main port-railway systems.
Poor condition of some parts of the infrastructure, excess staff, inadequate incentives, and inadequate availability
of appropriately skilled staff are some other causes for the inadequate quality of service and operating efficiency
and, consequently, the inadequacy of resources.
High Transport Costs for Exports/lImports of the Neighboring Countries. Due to the problems mentioned above
combined with unfair competition and business practices, part of the trade flows generating in the neighboring
countries - Zimbabwe, Malawi, Swaziland, and South Africa (Mapuphalanga region) - are forced to use
alternative routes (generally much longer) and alternative modes of transport such as road (generally more
expensive) for their exports and imports. The additional costs associated with these alternatives for all of
Mozambique's neighboring countries taken together are estimated to be about US$200.0 million per year.
Inadequacy of the Parastatal Frameworkfor the Current Competitive Environment. Public management seems to
have hindered the organizational and corporate restructuring that is necessary to revitalize the rail and port
systems and improve their performance. Indeed, the continuing problems of excess employment and lack of
financial resources raise doubts about the efficacy of public management. Technological and economic
developments and inter-country experience strongly suggest significant advantages to a major rebalancing of the
private-public sectors' roles in this industry. Accepting this position, GOM is in the process of concessioning the
three major port-rail systems - Beira, Maputo, and Nacala.
Inadequate Organization Structure of CFM. CFM's organizational structure is inefficient due mainly to: (i) too
many levels of management, first at the port-railway system level and then at the headquarters level; (ii) lack of
motivation for the staff; (iii) too much staff but very few with sufficient technical or managerial skills; and (iv)
inadequacy of operating and management systems. The CFM headquarters has taken on the responsibility for many
administrative and technical functions such as the procurement of common and expensive spares, development of
management and operating infornation systems, tariff setting, staff training, and designing of engineering systems.
To undertake these functions, CFM maintains a staff strength of close to 400 at the headquarters. In addition, the
three port-rail systems have their own heavily-staffed headquarters. Apart from substantially adding to the overhead
costs, CFM's organizational structure tends to slow down communications and the decision-making process. There
is obviously a need to restructure CFM's organization to enable it to focus on key corporate functions instead ofjust
the routine matters.
Surplus Staff. CFM is grossly overstaffed. About 12,200 of the total staff strength of about 19,200 is estimated to
be surplus.
Inadequate Regulatory Framework. Currently the responsibility for safety and environment-related regulation for
the railways and the land side services at the ports is exercised by CFM itself. GOM is in the process of
developing a comprehensive regulatory framework and setting up of an appropriate regulatory body as an integral
part of the concessioning process for the port-rail systems. These tasks need to be completed preferably before
the operationalization of the various concessions.
Poor Condition of Some Tertiary Ports. Some of the tertiary ports also serve the hinterland in a significant
manner. To ensure their efficient operation, GOM is in the process of concessioning them with public financing
of their rehabilitation to start with.
Inadequacy of the Transport Sector Policy. The current transport sector policy does not comprehensively cover
the key emerging issues such as concessioning, public service obligations, technical and economic regulation, and
investment rationale.



-4 -
Government Strategy:
The Government strategy to address the sectoral issues is six-fold:
(a) Large scale involvement of the private sector in the operations and management of all the ports and
railways, such involvement comprising: (i) concessioning of major operational port-railway systems;
(ii) leasing of equipment and operating assets; (iii) joint ventures for subsidiary businesses such as real
estate management, management of training facilities and information systems with major equity holding
remaining with the private partners; and (iv) build, operate, and transfer (BOT) arrangements for railway
networks requiring major rehabilitation such as the Sena line.
(b) Rationalization of CFM staff including retrenchment of surplus staff.
(c) Comprehensive restructuring of CFM involving: (i) separation of strategic, corporate, and regulatory
functions from day-to-day commercial and operating functions; (ii) making the headquarters and the
zonal units lean and thin; (iii) replacing traditional railway skills in the headquarters with specialized
legal, financial, institutional, and corporate ones; and (iv) increasing accountability through well-
structured performance contracts between GOM and CFM.
(d) Strengthening the Ministry of Transport and Communications and refining the Transport sector Policy.
(e) Establishing an appropriate regulatory framework for the whole transport sector to ensure its healthy
development in a competitive enviromnent.
(f) Rehabilitation of a number of tertiary ports as part of the concession agreement for these ports.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
The Project will assist GOM/CFM in the:
(a) Finalization and operationalization of private concessions for the major sea ports and railways in the
country.
(b) Rationalization of staff through: (i) retrenchment of surplus staff; (ii) counseling, retraining, and
redeployment of retrenched staff; and (iii) setting-up of a pension fund for remaining staff of CFM as well
as those joining the concessionaires.
(c) Restructuring of CFM to enable CFM to focus on strategic, corporate, and regulatory functions while
relegating the commercial and operating functions to a separate holding company proposed to be
established as a part of the Project as well as establishing function-specific subsidiary companies of CFM
to undertake specific functions such as real estate management, leasing of assets, construction and public
works, tourism, etc.
(d) Restructuring of MTC, enhancement of its conceptual and analytical capacity and the refinement and
elaboration of the transport sector policy.
(e) Development of an appropriate cost-effective regulatory framework and setting up a regulatory body.
(f) Rehabilitation of the Tertiary Sea Ports.
C:   Project Description Summary
1. Project Components:
The project comprises six main and a number of sub-components. The main and sub components along with their
costs are given in the Table below. A brief description of the components follows the Table. (See Annex 2for a
detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.)



- 5 -
PROJECT COST (USS million)
Total Cost                                  Of which
Local Foreign  Total   Consultancy
&Technical                 Staff      Civil
Component                                      Assistance   Training  Redundancy  works  Equipment
Concessioning of CFM
ports & milways                    0.2     0.8     1.0            1.0
Staff Rationalization             87.6     5.9    93.5            4.7       4.0          84.0     0.0          0.8
- Staff Redundancy              84.0     0.0    84.0                                   84.0|
Staff Redeployment                3       4     7.0            3.0       4.0
- Social Mitigation              0.2     0.4      0.6                                                        0.6
- Pension Fund                   0.1     0.4      0.5           0.5
- Pension Study                  0.2     0.8      1.0           1.0
- Information Dissemination      0.1     0.3      0.4           0.2                                          0.2
Corporate Restructuring            0.5     1.8     2.3            1.8                                          0.5
MTC Strengthening                  0.3     1.4     1.7            1.1       0.4                                0.2
- New Role and Functions         0.2     0.8      1.0           0.4       0.4                                0.2
- Civil Aviation Strategy        0.1     0.6      0.7           0.7
Regulatory Framework               1.6     5.6     7.2            6.4                                          0.8
- Economic                        1       4      5.0           4.5                                          0.5
- Technical for Ports and Railwa  0.4   0.9      1.3           1.1                                          0.2
-Technical Civil Aviation       0.2     0.7      0.9           0.8          l                               0.1
Tertiary Ports                     0.4     8.6     9.0            0.8                             8.2
- Infrastructure Rehabilitation  0.0    8.2      8.2                                            8.2
-Supervision of Works           0.2     0.2      0.4           0.4
- Inhambane Port Study          0.2     0.2     0.4            0.4
Total Baseline Cost
(wio contingencies)               90.6    24.1   114.7           15.8       4.4          84.0     82           2.3
Contingency - Physical (@ 10%
on civil works)                    0.0     0.8     0.8                                            0.81
Total with Physical contingency   90.6    24.9   115.5           15.8!      4.4          84.0     9.0         2.3
Contingency - Price
(@4%ontotal)                       3.4     1.1     4.5            0.71      0.21          3.0     0.5          0.1
Total Project Cost                94.0    26.0a  120.0           16.5       4.61         87.01    9.s          2.4
* NPV of the statutory pension payments for early retirees discounted at 4%
Concessioning of CFMPorts and Railways. CFM has advanced considerably in initiating the concessioning of its
main ports and railway systems. Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) have been signed with the preferred
bidders for the Maputo port and the southern rail system, with the exception of the Ressano Garcia line, for which
suitable arrangements are being worked out. A further MoU has been signed with a private consortium, which
had submitted a concession offer for the Nacala port and the northern rail system. In Beira, three terminal
concessions are being operated by private partners and a terminal joint venture is under preparation. Preparations
are also being made for concessioning of the Machipanda rail line together with the rail line linking the port of
Beira to Moatize coalfields (the latter needs complete rehabilitation). This component would focus on provision
of advisory services which may be required by CFM to: (i) develop the bidding documents for the concessioning
of the remaining ports, railways, and port services; (ii) design, negotiate, implement and monitor concession
agreements, and (iii) structure, implement and carry out its new role as equity shareholder in concessions and joint
ventures. The services would be concentrated on assistance in legal, financial, technical and environmental
matters. Inputs for this component would comprise consultancy services. Base cost (without any physical and
price contingencies) of the component is estimated at US$ 1.0 million to be financed by IDA (1% of the Project
cost).



- 6-
Staff Rationalization. Studies show that CFM, with a total employment of nearly 19,200, is grossly overstaffed.
Average labor productivity indicators in both the rail and port sectors are below CFM's targets. Based on a
detailed staff inventory and functional analyses for each system, the staff requirements have been estimated at
about 7,000 leaving a surplus of close to 12,200. CFM has already identified individual redundant staff while
recognizing that final redundancy levels will be determined by the concessionaires who will be given full
flexibility to select staff from the existing CFM pool according to their need. In order to minimize the adverse
impact of involuntary separations of such a large number of surplus staff, GOM and CFM have developed a staff
rationalization plan which comprises: (i) retrenchment of surplus staff and severance payments to the ietrenched
staff using specially designed retirement and retrenchment packages; (ii) redeployment support to help workers
find alternative jobs or become self-employed; (iii) social mitigation measures; (iv) creation of a pension fund for
the remaining CFM employees; and (v) arrangements for timely dissemination of information to all concerned.
The whole Staff Rationalization Plan (SRP) including the packages to be offered has been discussed by the CFM
management with the staff unions and staff representatives. The net present value of the statutory pension
streams (at 5% discount rates) of the staff proposed to be retrenched, is estimated at US$50.0 million and of the
severance payments and supplements to about US$34.0 million. Inputs for this component would comprise
statutory pension, supplement, transition, severance payments, consultancy services, training, retraining and
counseling of retrenched staff, and office equipment. Base cost of the component is estimated at US$93.5 million
to be financed by IDA (US$73.5 million or 61% of the Project cost) and GOM (US$20.0 million or 17% of the
Project cost).
Corporate Restructuring. The existing entity, viz., CFM, Empressa Nblica (CFM, EP), established through a
Government decree and charged with the responsibility for the development of the railways and ports sectors and
their effective management, is planning to continue spinning-off its commercial activities, through the
establishment of joint-ventures with private investors and through the creation of fully-owned subsidiaries. As
the spinning-off of its commercial activities progresses, so will the number of shareholdings initially retained by
CFM, EP. In order to clearly separate CFM's commercial interests from its other activities, it is the CFM Board's
intention to create an incorporated limited company, to be called CFM, Sociedade Anonima de Responsabilidade
Limitada (CFM, SARL), with a view to manage its subsidiaries and affiliates. This company would initially be a
fully-owned subsidiary of CFM, EP, although a minority equity participation could later be sold to institutional
investors, such as the foreseen pension fund. The creation of CFM, SARL is subject, however, to the clarification
of the legal framework for "holding" companies in Mozambique. A legal framework study is proposed to be
undertaken to clarify the legal framework and recommend changes in legislation to enable the creation of the
proposed holding and subsidiary companies. This Project component would focus on a study on the spin-off of
the commercial activities of CFM, EP under a new holding company, on the new role of CFM, EP, and on the
provision of consultant services and equipment to enable the implementation of the recommendations of the study
thereof. Inputs for this component would comprise consultancy services and office equipment. Base cost of the
component estimated at US$2.3 million is to be financed by IDA (2% of the Project cost).
MTC Strengthening. MTC's current organizational structure comprises various line directorates with
responsibility for the various transport modes, and staff directorates responsible for economics, finance and
administration. In a fast changing external environment, including market developments and the foreseen civil
service reform process, MTC is actively looking for ways to enhance its internal efficiency while operating with a
small, well-trained, and motivated staff. At this juncture, MTC considers it important to assess its
strategy/purpose, internal structure, work processes, staff skills and attributes, and behavioral and reward
structure, if MTC is to meet its fast evolving new role and challenges. This component would comprise a study to
review MTC's new organizational requirements in a framework dominated by an increasing private participation
in transport. Technical assistance services, training and equipment would also be provided under the component
to pursue the ongoing restructuring program, to enable the implementation of the recommendations of the study,
and to strengthen MTC's capabilities in policy formulation particularly in the aviation sub-sector. Inputs for this
component would comprise consultancy services, training, and office equipment. Base cost of the component is
estimated at US$1.7 million to be financed by IDA (1% of the Project cost).
Regulatory Framework. During the last three years, GOM has been actively pursuing a policy of increasing
private participation in the provision of revenue-earning transport services and infrastructure. The involvement of



the private sector is mostly being secured through long-term concession agreements. Public sector enterprises are
often expressing their interest in taking minority shareholdings in the concession companies and in joint-venture
with private investors. This is already the case in the railways and ports sub-sectors, in which CFM, EP detains
minority shareholdings in various concession companies. In this framework, the state is progressively changing
its role in sector management away from the direct provision of services and major infrastructure. Following
MTC's recent restructuring, the Directorate for Economics is responsible to carry out the economic regulation of
the transport sector. However, in a more transaction-determined environment, the various functions through
which the State discharges its role in the sector need to be made more explicit, if private participation is to be
secured and, indeed, sustained. These functions typically involve the unbundling of the role of the State as a
policy-maker, formulator of development strategy, conceding authority, shareholder, supervisor of concession
contracts, technical regulator, interpreter of concession agreements, settler of disputes under concession
agreements, and economic regulator. This component would include studies for the development of a regulatory
framework for the transport sector. This framework would cover economic and technical regulation aspects. The
economic aspects of transport sector regulation would be addressed under a study for the development of a
regulatory agency at the level of MTC, covering the various transport sub-sectors. Finance would also be
provided under this component for the provision of equipment and technical assistance services to enable the
launching of the agency. The technical regulation aspects, with specific sub-sector attributes, would be addressed
through the provision of technical assistance and equipment to Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (INAC) (civil
aviation) and of technical assistance to CFM, EP (railways and ports). Inputs for this component would comprise
consultancy services, technical assistance, and office equipment. Base cost of the component is estimated at
US$7.2 million to be financed by IDA (6% of the Project cost).
Tertiary Ports. This component would include rehabilitation works for the small ports of Angoche, Macuse,
Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane and a feasibility study for the revitalization of the port of Inhambane. Summary
preliminary results of the revised economic analysis for the four tertiary ports suggest economic viability of the
proposed investments. The revised estimated values for the EIRR reflect revised traffic projections and capital
cost estimates in line with the highest bid received during the tendering process undertaken on a turn-key basis.
Consultant services would also be provided under the component for the supervision of civil works in the four
ports and for the preparation of a study on the revitalization of the Inhambane Port. Inputs for this component
would comprise consultancy services and civil works. Base cost of the component is estimated at US$9.0 million
to be financed by IDA (8% of the Project cost).
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
The focus of the Project is on institutional reform. Key institutional reforms comprise: (a) private sector
participation in the operation and management of the sea ports, railways, and airports; (b) staff rationalization
including setting up of a pension fund for the ports and railways staff and institutional arrangements for the
counseling, retraining, and redeployment of redundant staff; (c) corporate restructuring of CFM including creation
of a holding company and a number of specialized subsidiary companies; (d) restructuring of MTC and
enhancement of its conceptual and analytical capacity; and (e) establishing a regulatory framework and
appropriate regulatory bodies.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
The restructuring of CFM and the concessioning of the three port-railway systems are expected to lead to a quantum
jump in the operating efficiency of the ports and the railways and the quality of service provided by them and,
consequently, the ports and the railways are expected to attract the traffic from the neighboring countries for which
they hold an advantage over the other ports and other modes of transport. The concessionaires would also be
expected to respond quickly to the changing market conditions. A point of reference for the level up to which the
traffic can increase is provided by what was carried by the three systems prior to the conflict, i.e., 15 million tons for
the ports and 13 million tons for the railways in 1975. Even though the regional traffic has increased at the cost of
overseas traffic in the recent past, particularly after the dismantling of apartheid in South Africa, any traffic
projections for the port-railway systems in Mozambique will need to consider the changes that have taken place in
the region since the 1970s, particularly the following: (i) exports of coal, minerals, agricultural products, and



-8-
manufactured goods have gradually increased in the recent past and, with the privatization of major industries in
almost all the countries of Southern Africa, this trend is expected to get a big boost; and (ii) with the liberal policies
being followed by GOM, the exports and imports by Mozambique itself are expected to increase manifold. Taking
these changes into account, it appears realistic to project that the traffic on the three port-railway systems in
Mozambique could increase at least to ten and seven million tons for ports and railways respectively within four
years of the Project commencement, i.e., by the year 2002. This increase in traffic would also translate into an
increase in the gross revenues from the three systems from the current level of US$80.0 million equivalent to about
US$150.0 million equivalent. While the traffic is projected to increase, both the direct and shared costs per unit of
traffic are expected to decrease substantially. With the involvement of the private sector in the operation and
management of the ports and railways, both equipment and human resources are expected to be utilized intensively,
overheads brought down to the minimum, the infrastructure maintained to standards adequate for the business on
hand, and all kinds of waste completely eliminated. While direct costs will be reduced due to increased productivity
and efficiency, shared costs per unit will also be reduced substantially both due to reduced costs of maintenance and
these being shared by a larger volume of traffic. The increase in the volume of business and the reduction in
operating costs is expected to result in benefits discussed below.
Increase in GOM's Revenue. GOM's revenues are expected to increase (i) directly through increased income tax on
profits of the concessioning companies and joint ventures as well as custom duty on increased imports of
Mozambique, and (ii) indirectly through a right to a major share of CFM's increased earnings from concession fees,
lease and hire charges for locomotives/wagons/real estate/other assets, rent from land and buildings, and dividend in
proportion of CFM's equity in the joint ventures. CFM's earnings are expected to be in the region of about 20% of
gross income of about US$150.0 million, i.e., about US$30.0 million. The allocation of this income between CFM's
expenses, the provision for future replacements of assets being CFM's liability under the concession agreements,
and the dividend to GOM would be deterrnined by a comprehensive Perforrmance Agreement that CFM and GOM
are in the process of negotiating.
Reduced Cost of Transport for the Neighboring Countries. The costs of overseas imports/exports for the
neighboring countries of Zimbabwe, Malawi, Swaziland, South Africa as well as Zambia and the Congo are
expected to reduce substantially as a result of: (i) the reduced distance for surface transport, the ports in
Mozambique being the nearest to these countries; (ii)the shift of considerable percentage of traffic from road to rail,
the rail tariffs being lower than those for the road; and (iii) the expected reduction in port charges and rail tariffs by
the concessionaires with a view to pass on some of the gains of increased productivity to the rail and port users.
Reduced Cost of Transportfor the Mozambican Traffic. The costs of Mozarnbican traffic, overseas, regional or
local, will also reduce substantially as a result of: (i) more intensive use of the rail mode of transport; and
(ii) expected reduction in port and rail tariffs by the concessionaires in order to increase their share of traffic.
Reduction in GOM's Financial Risk GOM's risk arising from the operation of the ports and railways will become
almost nil since the concessionaires will be committed to the maintenance of the infrastructure for the term of the
concession and will absorb the commercial risk.
4. InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements:
Implementation Period: Five years (January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004).
Executing Agencies: These comprise: (a) The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) for
components pertaining to the MTC's Restructuring and Capacity Enhancement, Regulatory Framework, and
Tertiary Ports Rehabilitation, and (b) CFM for components pertaining to the Concessioning of the port-railway
systems; Staff Rationalization including staff retrenchment, staff retraining and redeployment, social mitigation,
and establishing a pension Fund, and the corporate restructuring of CFM.
Procurement Arrangements. (Details are at Annex 6, procurement arrangements - Table A; Prior review
thresholds- Table B). The main features of the procurement arrangements are as follows (values within



- 9 -
parenthesis indicate the approximate value of goods/works/services proposed to be obtained through the
specified procurement method and are inclusive of physical and price contingencies):
(a) Civil works would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (US$5.0 million), National
Competitive Bidding (US$4.0 million), and Direct Contracting (US$0.5 million).
(b) Goods would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (US$1.0 million), National
Competitive Bidding (US$1.0 million), and Shopping (US$0.4 million).
(c) Consultants' services would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (US$1 1.0 million)
and Selection Based on Quality of Consultants (US$5.5 million).
(d) Training and retraining of retrenched staff would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(US$2.4 million), Selection Based on Quality of Training Institutions (US$1.0 million), and Internal, i.e.,
within CFM's training institutions (US$1.0 million).
(e) US$87.0 million will be disbursed towards severance payments directly by CFM.
Disbursement Arrangements. (Details of arrangements are at Annex 6 and the allocations of the proceeds of the
credit atAnnex 6- Table C). The proceeds of the IDA credit of US$70.0 million will be disbursed over the five-
year Project period, i.e., from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004. A period of six months will be allowed
after the closing date to enable disbursements for expenditures incurred prior to the closing date. The annual
estimated disbursements are indicated in a table on the first page of this Document.
Accounting and Financial Reporting Arrangements. CFM and Cabinete de Projectos Maritimos, Ministry of
Transport and Communications (GAPROMAR) will maintain accounts and records in accordance with
Mozambique and International Accounting Standards. Separate financial accounts will be kept for the Project,
using accounting procedures and systems acceptable to IDA. Special accounts and all disbursements under
Statements of Expenditure will be audited annually. Project accounts will be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA and an annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year.
D:  Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
The following two alternatives were considered and rejected:
(a) two separate projects following one another, the first dealing with the restructuring of CFM,
rehabilitation, and efficiency improvement, and the second dealing with the privatization of the remaining
corridors; and
(b) three separate projects, one for each of the three port-railway systems.
The rationale for the first alternative is that a restructured and improved railway could prove to be more attractive
to potential concessionaires leading to a higher value of the concession overall. This alternative was, however,
rejected for two reasons: (i) the concessioning of the three port-rail systems is already well advanced; and
(ii) experience of previous similar approaches has not been very satisfactory. Most of the past railway and port
projects focused on rehabilitating infrastructure, creating adequate operational capacity; developing operations
and management support systems, limited organization restructuring, staff and assets rationalization, performance
indicators; and performance contracts between the railways/ports and the governments. Even so, these projects
generally failed to improve the railway/port performance. In most cases, the railway/port performance actually
deteriorated to such an extent that the railways' revitalization at a later stage became more difficult and expensive.
The strategy adopted under the Project is to implement the two main activities, viz., the concessioning of the ports
and railways and restructuring of CFM and retrenchment of surplus staff, in parallel. This will result in the
concessionaires not being burdened with the issues of staff rationalization and thus enhancing the value of the
concessions. This will also leave the government free to develop their own timetable for implementing the
restructuring and staff rationalization plans.



- 10-
The main advantage of the second alternative could have been to focus on each port-rail system separately along
with their impact on the neighboring countries, even to the extent of considering a joint concession for the two
sides of the corridor. However, given the fact that most restructuring, staff rationalization, and other issues are
common to the whole CFM and that the private concessioning of the individual port-rail systems can still be
considered independent of each other, there was not much merit in considering this approach.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).
Latest Form
Sector Issue              I           Project              590 Ratings
IP   iDO
Bank-Financed
Restructuring and privatization of the port  Maputo Corridor Revitalization  S     S
terminals and port services in the port of  I Technical Assistance Project
Maputo and the linked rail systems.       (Cr. 2454 MOZ).
Rehabilitation of the infrastructure and assets in  Beira Transport Rehabilitation    S
the port of Beira and the linked rail systems. f  Project (Cr. 2065-MOZ). R  S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Other Development Agencies
(a)  KfW - Rehabilitation of the energy system in the port of Maputo, supply and commissioning
of equipment for bulk handling, rehabilitation of Port of Quelimane;
(b)  CFD - Rehabilitation of the Nacala rail system;
(c)  EU - Rehabilitation of stations and water tanks for the railway system;
(d)  Portuguese Cooperation - Nacala railways;
(e)  ODA/KfW - Rehabilitation of Matola Oil terminal, Limpopo line, Grain terminal at Matola
and Quelimane;
(f)  Italy - Rehabilitation of Boane-Machava line;
(g)  NORDIC - TA for Beira Corridor Authority;
(h)  DGIS - TA for Beira Corridor Authority;
(i)  DANIDA - TA for operation of tug boats;
(j) SIDA/FINNIDA - Acquisition of container equipment; and
(k)  NORAD - Rehabilitation of port of Beira, and TA for CFM (N).
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
Lesson 1: With Government-appointed managers managing without adequate authority, and continuing
Government interference in their management, most railways and ports in Sub-Saharan Africa, with only a few
exceptions, have been unable to become financially self-sustaining or sustain financial sustainability, if achieved.
To enable the railways and ports to become financially viable and self-sustaining, the Project would focus on
private sector involvement in ports and railways through long-term concession agreements.
Lesson 2: Every railway and port in the Sub-Saharan African region is overstaffed, some even to the extent of
about 200 to 300%. Whether managed as it is or through private participation, the railways and ports are unlikely
to become financially viable unless surplus staff is retired/retrenched. Even though politically unpleasant and
difficult to implement, the Project would be designed with staff rationalization as one of the key components.
Lesson 3: Massive investments in infrastructure, locomotives, rolling stock, and communication systems have
generally been ineffective in improving reliability or efficiency because the investments were not always directed at



-11 -
removing the most critical constraints. The Project would, therefore, require that future investments in railways and
ports are linked to firm government plans for the concessioning of the port-railway systems and that the selected
private concessionaires share the risk in proportion to their equity.
Lesson 4: A change in the legislative framework which affects the railways and ports is important as most past
legislation is generally restrictive of their autonomy, particularly with regard to its organizational restructuring,
commercialization, and privatization. In the case of CFM, modifying the legislative framework would be
particularly essential in view of the proposal to restructure CFM to separate the corporate from commercial and
operating functions and to establish a holding company to take responsibility for commercial functions.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
(a) The borrower, in fulfilling one of the conditions for the release of the third tranche under the Second
Economic Recovery Credit (SERC), submitted to the Bank a Restructuring Plan for CFM which
committed GOM to wide-ranging actions aimed at staff and asset rationalization, organizational
restructuring, private participation in the management and operation of ports and terminals, sale of
redundant assets, and intensive collaboration with neighboring countries.
(b) The whole staff rationalization program has been designed by CFM including, inter alia, the number of
staff to be retirediretrenched, pension supplements, severance payments, assistance package for
facilitating transition, and other benefits. During the design process, CFM has kept MTC and MPF
informed and obtained their approval.
(c) The borrower, in an address before the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris on April 18, 1996, confirmed
its commitment and outlined the basic option for involving the private sector in ports and railways.
(d) CFM with the approval of GOM has already entered into several concession agreements for the provision
of port services in the ports of Maputo and Beira and these concessions are operating generally
satisfactorily.
(e) GOM has already successfully implemented the Maputo Corridor Revitalization Project (MCRP) and
signed MOUs for the award of concessions for the port of Maputo and the rail systems within the Maputo
corridor.
(f) GOM has further committed itself to a comprehensive restructuring of CFM and extensive private
participation in the management and operation of all ports and railways in Mozambique in the Policy
Framework Paper of February 1998.
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project:
IDA has aleady assisted GOM/CFM in: (a) improving CFM's performnance through two Projects mentioned in
paragraph 2, Section D; (b) clarifying and concretizing the concepts behind restructuring; (c) providing continuous
analysis of project features; (d) coordinating with the donor agencies to develop an integrated approach towards the
rail and port sub-sectors through non-lending operations. By continuing its involvement in extending its assistance
to the areas not covered under the two previous projects and by extending the recommendations and experiences of
MCRP to the other two port-rail systems, IDA would be able to assist GOM and CFM in consolidating this process,
and would also help ensure appropriate incorporation of lessons from other regional railway projects. IDA is also
supporting similar restructuring, revitalization, and privatization projects in the neighboring countries of Malawi,
Zimbabwe, and Zambia and would be in a position to help Mozambique as well as the neighboring countries reach a
common understanding for the efficient management of the rail corridors in the region.
E:   Summary Project Analysis: (Detailed assessments are in the projectfile, see Annex 8).
1. Economic Analysis (supported by Annex 4b):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: []Cost Effectiveness Analysis [1 Other (specify):
NPV (@ 12%)=357.0 million; EIRR= 52% for the railways and Ports Privatization and Restructuring Program
NPV (@ 12%)=40.5 million; EIRR= 25.9% (weighted by investment) for the IDA-financed components.
For purposes of economic assessment, a benefit-cost analysis was carried out for the proposed main railway and
port privatization/restructuring program, as a whole. Specific economic assessments were also carried out for the
programs for staff rationalization and the investments in the tertiary ports, these being the main components to be



-12-
financed under the Project. A discount rate of 12% was used throughout the analysis, since this is the value
assumed for the opportunity cost of capital in Mozambique.
Benefits from the overall program for railway and port privatization and restructuring are mainly expected to be
derived from: (i) the incremental revenue gains from transit traffic; (ii) the cost savings in shipping for
Mozambique trade; and (iii) the avoided road transport costs resulting from a more efficient private railway
operation. Additional benefits would accrue from the marginal productivity of retrenched CFM staff elsewhere in
the economy. The matching cost streams would comprise: (a) the incremental investments costs to be borne by
the concessionaires; (b) the costs incurred by CFM in the concessioning/restructuring process; (c) the costs to
GOM from the development and operation of the regulatory framework and of needed institutional strengthening;
and (d) the training costs for surplus CFM staff. The economic NPV, over 20 years (the period of the
concessions), is estimated at some US$357.0 million and the EIRR at 52%. Since almost 80% of quantified
project benefits would accrue from transit traffic, the key assumption of the analysis is the corresponding growth
rate. For the first ten-year period of the analysis, this rate was forecasted at 10% p.a. under private concessioning,
as compared to 5% in the "without-project" scenario However, results of sensitivity analysis show that, in case
traffic would grow by only some 7.5% p.a. (in the "with-project" scenario) or the increment in the growth rate
would be limited to 2.5% (rather than 5%), the estimated EIRR would still be above 30%.
Direct benefits from the IDA-financed staff rationalization program would basically be derived from the marginal
productivity value of CFM's retrenched staff. These benefits were estimated on the basis of: (a) the marginal
productivity value of the foregone staff cost to CFM; and (b) the marginal productivity of retrenched staff
elsewhere in the economy. Estimated benefits were matched against the costs of the staff rationalization program,
including those for severance payments (both statutory and incremental), staff training, as well as social
mitigation. The statutory payments to the retrenched staff were assumed as costs in the economic analysis to
reflect their opportunity cost in the highly-constrained budget situation faced by Mozambique. The economic
NPV, over a 20-year period, is estimated at about US$33.0 million and the EIRR at 25%. The underlying key
assumption, based on a sample survey, is that about 48% of the staff, after early retirement or retrenchment, will
be able to get redeployed after appropriate skill upgrading. Results of the sensitivity analysis also indicate that,
even if in the extreme case the marginal productivity of retrenched staff would be nil, EIRR would be above
12%.
Risk analysis was also carried out using Monte-Carlo simulation. Since the simulation model has the capability to
inter-link the various programs subject to specific economic analysis, the simulations were jointly carried out.
Four key variables, and the associated probability distributions, were selected in order to factor uncertainty into
the analysis. Overall, the results of the simulation analysis show that the risk that the estimated EIRRs would not
be achieved is higher for the SRP (66%) than for the overall program for privatization and restructuring (52%).
In any case, it is most unlikely that any of the evaluated programs would yield an EIRR below 12%, except for the
labor retraining program which has a certainty of level of only 87%. This component needs to be carefully
monitored during implementation, particularly in terms of the cumulative number of displaced CFM workers
finding alternative productive activities and their net-incomes thereof.
For the physical investments in tertiary ports, the combined estimated economic NPV is US$7.5 million, with
individual EIRR ranging from 63% at Pebane to 12% at Macuse. Benefits from the proposed investments are
mainly derived from reduced ship stay at port, and avoidable road transport costs for export movement through
ports. Additional benefits are likely to accrue in the form of generated exports for which alternative routes would
not be economically feasible in view of the high proportion of inland transport costs to be incurred. These
benefits are, however, difficult to estimate and they have not been considered into the analysis.
The consolidated NPV for the IDA-financed components, i.e., staff rationalization and tertiary ports
rehabilitation, weighted by investments, is US$40.5 million and the EIRR is 25.9%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4c):
NPV = US$158.0 million.              FRR = N.A.



- 13 -
CFM's financial position has progressively weakened in the past. Over the most recent four-year period (1994-
1997), CFM has incurred net losses between US$3.5 and US$76.2 million (after taking into account depreciation).
A revaluation of assets was carried out in 1995 leading to provisions for depreciation of about US$60.0 million a
year and thus increasing book losses. Moreover, CFM has been paying about US$ 3.5 million annually in salaries
for retired staff, whose papers have been under process for over three years in the Ministry of Planning and
Finance, and has been undertaking public service obligations (provision of water and energy to a number of cities)
to the extent of US$10.0 million per year. As a result of all these factors, CFM has not been able to properly
compensate its capital providers nor carry out reinvestments. The effect has been a progressive decapitalization of
the company, continuous implicit (non-cash) Government subsidies and virtual absence of major reinvestment
reflecting its financial decapitalization.
The principal financial objective of CFM' s restructuring is to establish long-term sustainability of the company by
reduction of its surplus staff costs, increase of revenues from concessioned operations, debt restructuring, and
creation of an adequate investment reserve. This would halt the company's decapitalization, reduce or eliminate
the implicit Government subsidy, ensure adequate reinvestment and replacement of infrastructure, and lay the
basis for eventual appropriate remuneration of capital.
Financial projections have been carried out to assess the impact of CFM's restructuring program on its future
financial position. Measures of particular significance include the concessioning of CFM's main operations in the
three transport corridors, and the staff retrenchment program. The projections demonstrate that under the
assumptions of the base case the annual average deficit would be reduced to about US$3.0 million. While this
would still imply an implicit (non-cash) Government subsidy, it would be considered tolerable given revenue
levels approaching US$100.0 million over the concession period. The computation of depreciation (about
US$60.0 million) is estimated on the basis of all infrastructure assets currently in CFM's books. Eventually, the
asset base could shrink as some of the assets are given up subsequent to concessioning and some others are not
required to be maintained to the current technical standards. This would lead to the reduction of the level of
depreciation. The restructuring program can, therefore, be expected to lead to positive financial results and
achieve CFM's sustainability if: (i) CFM is relieved and/or properly remunerated for its social service
obligations, and (ii) a careful review of railway and port infrastructure results in lower replacement needs and
depreciation than currently estimated. Achievement of financial sustainability would also depend on restructuring
of CFM's accumulated debt which needs to be determined by the arrangements of the performance contract with
the Government.
The financial cost-benefit analysis focused - like the financial projections - on the issue of CFM's long-term
financial sustainability. It, thus, assessed the net benefits generated for CFM from the restructuring process. The
"with project" situation is based on the assumptions underlying the financial projections and includes taxes paid
by CFM. The "without project" situation is based on the traffic volume, revenue, cost, and investment
assumptions used in the economic analysis without economic adjustments, and without taking into account certain
economic benefits (avoided road transport costs, marginal productivity of retrenched workers). While the FRR
was not calculable due to positive net benefits in the first years, the NPV for CFM at 12% amounts to US$158.0
million.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the effects of different assumptions for the pace of concessioning,
debt reduction, and depreciation on CFM's financial sustainability as measured by the average annual deficit. It
showed that average annual deficits would increase to levels between US$12.0 million and US$5 1.0 million if
concessioning were not carried out or implemented slowly, or long-term debt were only partially restructured. On
the other hand, average annual profits of US$14.0 million could be achieved if infrastructure reinvestment, i.e.,
depreciation were reduced by about US$20.0 million p.a. A Monte-Carlo simulation showed that changes in
market conditions for concessionaires (i.e., variations in realized rail and port traffic) would be unlikely to have a
substantial impact on CFM's financial results.
Even in the base case, i.e., with slight average annual deficits, CFM will generate cash surpluses which could be a
source for replacement investment to be carried out by CFM. However, since this investment is expected to be
considerably lower than annual depreciation until about 2010, substantial cash surpluses would be kept as savings



- 14-
for a long period. One option considered by CFM is that of a dedicated Infrastructure Reserve Fund (IRF)
ensuring availability of resources as needed. The other option would be to maintain a relatively small IRF,
enough for emergency rehabilitation, and to transfer the remaining surplus to GOM, in which case GOM will
have the responsibilities of mobilizing resources for future rehabilitation of assets.
3. Technical Assessment and Issues:
Infrastructure Standards. The setting of standards has a direct implication for the operating costs, the concession
fees, and the overall financial viability of the rail and port systems. Higher standards often mean higher cost of
maintenance, more investrnent on expensive track maintenance equipment, and higher provision for depreciation
without any appreciable impact on revenues. Use of standards that are appropriate for the service proposed to be
provided could lead to considerable cost savings. Under the Project, emphasis would be on defining the minimum
safety and environment-related standards and the concessionaires would be left free to decide on the operational
standards such as the speed of trains in relation to the traffic requirements.
Compliance with Standards. Provisions will be made in the concession agreements for periodic independent
inspections including use of computerized track recording cars to assess the degree to which the standards are
being maintained and linking the quality of maintenance to penalties/rewards.
Accident Investigations. Provisions will be made in the contract for independent investigation of accidents, at
least for those accidents where public property is involved.
4. Institutional Assessment and Issues:
CFM's Authority to Award Concessions. CFM was established with a broad mandate to exploit the potential of
the port-railway systems in Mozambique. This was akin to making CFM a sort of Master Concessionaire, the
terms of the concession being left to be decided through periodic "Performance Agreements" between CFM and
GOM. The decree establishing CFM also gave it wide powers to enter into any type of contract with anyone with
GOM's approval in order to achieve its broad mandate. The contracts mentioned in the decree are not spelt out
but can be interpreted to include concessions, sub-contracts, and joint ventures. The preliminary analysis of the
consultants also supports the interpretation that: (a) CFM has the legal authority to award concessions with
GOM's approval; and (b) CFM can be a partner in the concessions if there is advantage in doing so. The conflict,
that is apparent in CFM awarding the concession as well as being a part of the concession, has been sought to be
minimized by ensuring that: (i) CFM remains a minority shareholder; and (ii) the regulatory body proposed to
monitor the implementation of the concession contracts is independent of CFM.
CFM's Role and Structure after Concessioning After the concessions for the Maputo, Nacala, and Beira port-
railway systems have been awarded and the responsibility for the operations and management of these port-
railway systems passes to the concessionaires, the existing zonal CFM management would have to be right-sized.
CFM at the central level would, however, continue to focus on the following functions: (a) disposal of surplus
assets including the leasing of operating assets to the concessionaires; (b) exercising landlord functions (property
management); (c) retirement/retrenchment of surplus staff; (d) shouldering of the responsibilities of a minority
(33%) shareholder in various concessions; and (e) management of the income from operations, concessions,
leasing of assets, and dividends as well as CFM's liabilities. To manage these functions effectively, the
restructuring of CFM envisages the establishment of a holding company with the original CFM focusing on
strategic issues and the holding company on commercial and operating issues.
Role of SADC. Southern Africa Transport & Communications Commission (SATCC), the specialized body
under Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) to deal with transport issues, has been supportive of the
need to privatize the railways and ports and has in recent times advised the different railways in the region to
implement Railways and Ports privatization programs. The Bank has been in regular touch with SATCC and
would ensure their participation at all stages of the Project.



- Is -
Linkages to Neighboring Countries. It is evident that, for optimal results, the railway systems in the neighboring
countries which use the port-railway systems in Mozambique would have also to improve their performance.
While Zimbabwe, Zambia, and Malawi have initiated action towards privatizing their railways, others -
Swaziland, South Africa - could probably take a little longer. Eventually, all railways are expected to be
concessioned and that would ensure an overall increase in operating performance. The neighboring railways need
to reach agreements on: (i) accessing each other's markets through agreements on haulage and track usage
charges; (ii) sharing each other's facilities, particularly the expensive ones; and (iii) developing a common
marketing and pricing strategy. The Project would include components to facilitate development of such
mutually-beneficial agreements.
Donor Agencies. As is clear from paragraph 2, Section D, a large number of donor agencies have provided
assistance to CFM in the past and still continue to maintain their interest in the revitalization of the ports and
railways in the country. However, no donor agency is involved in co-financing the Project even though they
remain supportive.
Regulatory Framework. The implementation of an autonomous regulatory body with supporting regulatory
framework is essential to ensure that the concession agreements are implemented correctly and rigorously. To
avoid excessive regulation, the concession agreement will be developed so as to specify all possible details and
leave very little to the subjective interpretation of the regulatory body. The task of the regulatory body would
then be to enforce what has already been agreed to. Consultants will soon be engaged to develop a regulatory
framework for the surface transport as a whole. Special attention would also be put in avoiding "ex-ante"
regulatory capacity through redeployment of staff from executing to regulatory functions.
5. Social Analysis and Issues:
The program of staff rationalization was designed by CFM with the assistance of external consultants and after
consulting staff and their union representatives. Even so, with a view to better understand the staff perceptions
pertaining to the upcoming staff retrenchment, their fears and concerns, and the type of assistance that, in their
view, could soften the economic and even more traumatic social consequences of retrenchment, a comprehensive
and wide-ranging staff survey was undertaken by a different external consultant. This survey, undertaken during
the months of October and November 1998, involved a large representative sample of CFM workers (n--3020) in
the four Executive Directorates (South, Center, North and Zambezia) and was probably one of the most
comprehensive socio-economic surveys undertaken in Mozambique. The results of the survey, while confirming
several key assumptions/perceptions, also produced some surprises. The main assumptions to be confirmed were
that: (a) a sizeable proportion of CFM staff are unlikely to be psychologically prepared to handle the impact of
early retirement/retrenchment; and (b) there are distinctive differences between staff perception in each of the four
principal zones - the South, Center, North and Zambezia. The surprise finding was that a large proportion (42%)
of the staff indicated during the survey that they would prefer to be retired/retrenched than to maintain their
current jobs. The survey also established that the social consequences of retrenchment could in most cases be as
traumatic as the economic consequences, sometimes even more.
The survey results would be used by CFM to: (a) refine the staff retraining and redeployment program that has
already been outlined; and (b) build into the program additional measures for assisting staff in appropriately
managing the social consequences of retrenchment. The extended program would, henceforth, be referred to as
the Staff Redeployment and Social Adjustment Program or SRSAP. Two main recommendations of the social
impact analysis are that: (a) an accurate and coordinated information dissemination campaign needs to be
undertaken by CFM; and (b) CFM needs to make arrangements for appropriate and sensitized counseling.



-1 6-
Annex 1I deals in detail with: (a) the social costs and benefits of retrenchment; (b) a socio-economic profile of the
retrenched workers; (c) the reactions to the prospect of imminent retirement/retrenchment; (d) the regional
differences and their policy implications; and (e) the recommendations thereof.
6. Environmental Assessment: Environmental Category [ i A [X] B [] C
An Environment Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared by CFMIGOM with assistance from external
consultants, who undertook an extensive environment audit of the port-railway systems in the country. The EMP
has been prepared, taking into account the safety- and environment-related regulation included in Mozambique's
transport sector policy and the Railways-related legislation. EMP would form an integral part of the Performance
Agreement to be signed between GOM and CFM and all the concession contracts. The progress of implementation
would be periodically reviewed. The concessionaires would be required to make specific allocation of funds for
procurement of safety- and environment-related equipment for the railways and the ports, and for technical
assistance and consultancy studies, if required. The operating costs towards implementation of EMP would be
required to be provided by the zonal CFMs/concessionaires.
7. Participatory Approach:
Participatory Approach               Preparation                  Implementation
Beneficiaries/Community Groups    Formal survey                 Regular consultation
Intermediary NGOs                 Informal Consultation         Regular consultation
Academic Institutions
Local Government                  Consultation/Collaboration    Consultation/Collaboration
Donor Agencies                    Consultation/Informnation     Consultation/Information
Trade Unions                      Consultation                  Consultation
F:   Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long-term sustainability of the port-railway systems in Mozambique would be enhanced under the Project by:
(a) the very implementation of the project which focuses on long-term private concessions for the ports and railways
in Mozambique: (b) reorienting CFM's remaining operations to their most competitive and productive advantage;
(c) balancing the pace of the concessioning process to reflect existing capacity constraints; (d) emphasizing
transparency in the selection of the private concessionaire in order to optimize the value of the concession; and
(e) addressing implementation issues in sufficint detail in the concession agreements so as to preempt any possible
legal action namely by setting a credible, independent, and fast system for the settlement of disputes.
The long-term sustainability of operations of the three zonal port-railway systems would also depend upon the
efficient operation of the railway systems in the neighboring countries. To ensure this, RPRP would provide
assistance to CFM EP in: (a) setting-up institutional mechanisms, one for each of the neighboring railways, to
facilitate close coordination among the entities managing the different segments of the rail route; (b) developing
agreements between the neighboring railways with regard to using the same, if not similar, rolling stock
management systems, each other's workshop facilities; (c) easing transit formalities at the borders; and
(d) collaborating in developing and implementing regional marketing strategies.



- 17-
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1).
Risk
Risk                      Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
The regulatory framework being ineffective in  S  Technical assistance for the regulatory body,
enforcing the terms of the contract.                  particularly during the early periods of
______________    _ _ implementation.
Appropriate institutional arrangements not being  M   Prejudicial discussion groups to be set-up.
in place for quickly resolving any incipient
disputes.
The neighboring railways performance remains   S      Operations agreements between the
inadequate.                                           concessionaires and the neighboring railways
to be encouraged and penalties to be attached
to violations.
The concessionaires fail to perform adequately or  M  Close monitoring of concession agreements
abandon the concession. Even though the               by the regulatory units, which would be
concessionaires may be liable under the              provided technical assistance for the first few
concession agreement, there could be an              years of their operations.
immediate impact on the transport system, the
customers in the neighboring countries, and the
revenues and foreign exchange earnings of
GOM.
The early retirees/staff retrenches, even after  M    CFM and GOM to meticulously implement:
accepting the agreed package, could become            (i) the agreements with regard to payment of
frustrated in their efforts to find alternative jobs  statutory pensions, pension supplements and
or self-employment and could start a campaign         severance payments; and (ii) the Staff
for redress of their problems. This could affect      Redeployment and social Mitigation
both the concessionaires and CFM.                     Program.
GOM may fail to make adequate budgetary        S      As for retrenchment payments until they
provision for the payment of statutory pensions,     reach the normal retirement age, financing
which could lead to agitation by the early  l       I arrangements have been under RPRP. With
retirees.                                           | regard to normal pension payments, which
XGOM has been finding difficult to finance,
l  GOM has agreed to undertake a
comprehensive pension study for staff of all
l public enterprises, including CFM with the
intention of establishing an independently-
managed pension fund with assistance from
I IDA and other donor agencies.
Overall Risk Rating.                         S      I-
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
CFMHolding Equity in the Concessions. CFM being the conceding authority, their equity participation in the
company selected for the award of the concession is seen to be causing a conflict of interest. While some conflict of
interest is inherent in this arrangement, such arrangements are not uncommon. To minimize the impact of equity
participation by CFM, a separate holding company is proposed to be established to take over the operational and
commercial functions of CFM as a shareholder of subsidiary and affiliates while CFM, EP would be the conceding
authority in charge of the supervision of the concession agreement.



- 18-
Staff Redundancy. The level of redundancy being addressed under the Project is large compared to the total
formal employment in Mozambique and could have considerable economic and social consequences for staff.
Not retrenching the staff has its own economic consequences for the efficient performance of the port-railway
systems. While there is agreement on the need to retrench surplus staff, there are differences of opinion on the
pace of implementation of the staff retrenchment plans, on the adequacy of the severance packages (considered
generous by some and not adequate by others), and some of the measures that CFM wants to take to assist the
staff in getting self-employed. In particular, CFM feels that it is duty-bound to assist the staff to get redeployed in
all possible ways -- an agreement which is endorsed by all. What is contentious is that CFM intends to establish a
Redeployment Fund to assist staff with small projects. As this is a new area, and to allay concerns in this regard,
only a few pilot projects would first be undertaken and financed by CFM, and depending on the results of the
pilot projects, more projects could be undertaken with financing under the Project. Additionally, given these
concerns, emphasis would be laid on dissemination of information and systematic and appropriate counseling of
staff and scrutiny of all proposals pertaining to micro financing and small projects.
Participation in the Concessions by Local Entrepreneurs. There is some concern by the local entrepreneurs that,
being financially stronger, the foreign companies will corner all the concessions and the local entrepreneurs will
have no opportunity to grow. To address this concern, GOM may offer part of the 16% minority shareholding to
local entrepreneurs at a later date when the stock exchanges are established and effective.
Concessionaires Performance. The concessionaires' performance depends to a large extent on the clarity of the
concession agreements. The process of negotiation for many of the concessions has been quite difficult and the
clauses in the agreement could lead to different interpretations at a later date. The alternative of endless
negotiations to make the concession agreements absolutely satisfactory and unambiguous could endanger the
possibility of reaching an agreement and also lead to loss of valuable time. A useful step would be to establish
non-judicial bodies comprising representatives from the concessionaires, the conceding authority, GOM, and key
customers. These bodies could deal with different interpretations in an objective manner and persuade the main
players to accept compromises.
Efforts at Redeployment of Staff. The staff, in a survey conducted in October 1998, indicated less preference for
assistance in training or retraining as compared to assistance for house construction. CFM's view is that their
chances for redeployment would increase after training/retraining. The experience worldwide on this has been
mixed. It is difficult to settle the difference of opinion on this key issue. As a starting point, the Project has
recognized the need for training/retraining but all such programs would be preceded by appropriate counseling
and identification of the right training programs. This should hopefully increase the usefulness of training.
G:  Main Credit Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) CFM has appointed a financial management committee for CFM with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association.
(b) The Borrower has appointed a financial management committee for MTC, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association.
(c) The Borrower has established a project accounting system within MTC for the purpose of Section 4.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), satisfactory to the Association.
(d) CFM has established a project accounting system for the purpose of Section 4.01 of the Project
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association.
(e) CFM has appointed a financial manager, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 of
the DCA.
(f) The Performance Contract between the Borrower and CFM, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, has been executed.
(g) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CFM.
(h) The Borrower has, in accordance with Section 3.05(b) of the DCA, made the initial deposit into the
Project Account.



- 19 -
(i) CFM has appointed an independent external auditor, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to the DCA.
(j) The Borrower has adopted a Staff Rationalization Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
H:  Readiness for Implementation
(a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
(b) The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
(c) The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I:   Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Yash P. Kedia, Team Leader, AFTTI
PyusllisR.Pomeraozes, Sector Manager, AFTTI
Phyllis R. Pomeranttz, Country Director, AFC02



-20-
ANNEXES



-21 -
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators'   Monitoring and Supervision       Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective                                                                                              [CAS Objective to Bank Mission]
Reduction of poverty through accelerated growth  No capital or operating    Statistics of the Ministry of  Concessionaires will perform
in the transport sector to generate employment,  subsidy from the GOM to    Finance and CFM                according to the concession
foreign exchange and Govermment revenues        CFM                                                        agreements
through policy reforms, private sector          Dividends from CFM to
participation, and investments, if necessary.   GOM as per the Performance
Contract between CFM and
GOM
Redeployment of at least                                  The probability of redeployment
30% redundant staff after                                 of surplus staff will increase after
training, retraining, and                                 training, retraining, and
counseling                                                counseling
Project Development Objectives                                                                             [Development Objectives to CAS
Objective]
The main objectives to substantially increase the  The traffic from the     Records of the concessionaires    The Developmental objectives
operating efficiency of the three major port-rail  neighboring countries to  and the neighboring countries  are closely linked to the CAS
systems in Mozambique and enable them to        exceed 10 million tons (port)                              objectives
increase their share of the international freight  and 7 million tons
traffic from the neighboring countries. The     (railways) by year 2002
increase in freight traffic should enable:
(a) The neighboring countries to reduce the
surface transport costs of their exports and
imports resulting from use of shorter routes,
increased efficiency of operations, and use of
railways in preference to roads;
(b) The concessioned ports and railways to
become financially self-sustaining;
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



- 22 -
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators'   Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions
(c) CFM to increase its net income (net of its own
expenses provision for long-term
infrastructure replacement and, consequently,
be in a position to pay dividends to GOM; and
(d) Mozambique to generate more foreign
exchange since the neighboring countries are
required to pay in foreign exchange for the use
of railways and port facilities in Mozambique.
A related and equally important objective is to
strengthen the Transport sector policy, the
regulatory framework, and the institutional
capacity of MTC.
Project Outputs                                                                                          [Outputs to Development Objectives]
1. Concessioning of seaports, railways, and
airports
CONCESSION AGREEMENTS SIGNED                Nacala port/railways - 9/99    CFM records and concession     Satisfactory proposals from the
Beira Rail system - 3/002     contracts                      potential concessionaires would
Maputo port/railways -9/99                                   have been received
-  Concessions operationalized              Nacala port/railways - 12/99
Beira Rail system - 6/00
Maputo port/railways -12/99
2. Staff Rationalization
-  Retrenchment/early retirement of surplus  6,000 (cumulative) by 12/2000
staff completed                          8,600 (cumulative) by 12/2001                                Both CFM and GOM continue to
11,300 (cumulative) by 12/2001                               hoth  teM  of the
-  Pension Fund established                 December 2001                                                 Performance Agreement
-  A functioning Staff redundancy management  January 2000
unit
-  Staff retraining and redeployment completed  December 2004
2 The concession for the two main terminals of the Beira port, viz., container and general purpose, has already been signed and is operational.



-23 -
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and Supervision       Critical Assumptions
3. Restructuring of CFM                       December 2000                   CFM's internal records, CFM
-  Holding and subsidiary companies           June 2001                       Board resolutions and
incorporated                                                               supervision missions
Performance Agreement,
SIGNING OF THE GOM-CFM                                                        supervision mission, and CFM's
PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT                                                          internal records
4. Institutional Reform
-  The regulatory framework agreed and the    Design by 3/00                  Records of the Ministry of
regulatory body established                Regulatory body - 12/00         Transport, interviews with
Reform of MTC                              December 2001                   concessionaires and customers,
and
Supervision Mission
5. Rehabilitation of tertiary ports completed  December 2001
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



- 24 -
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators'   Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions
Project Component                           Project inputs                 Supervision and Monitoring    Assumptions and risks
[Components to Outputs]
Concessioning
Ports and railways                          Investment and advisory        Bidding / Transaction documents   GOM remains committed to
services, consultancy studies  and study reports                 concessioning of the port-rail
systems:
International interest in
concessions is maintained
STAFF RATIONALIZATION
STAFF REDUNDANCY
.  GOM remains committed to
Staff retraining and redeployment           Financing of staff severance   CFM accounts and supervision      retrenchment of staff;
payments                      missions                           The staff unions accept the
Consultancy studies and       Terms of reference, study          staff rationalization plan and
technical assistance          reports, supervision missions     the retrenchment package
Pension Fund                                Consultancy studies            Terms of reference, study
reports. supervision missions
CFM RESTRUCTURING                           Consultancy studies, TA and    Supervision missions
computer equipment
MTC Strengthening
Transport policy and restructuring of the Ministry Consultancy studies, TA and  Supervision missions         GOM remains committed to
of Transport                                computer equipment                                               the restructuring of the
Transport sector
Regulatory reform                           Consultancy studies and        Supervision missions              GOM remains committed to
computer equipment                                               creating a competitive and a
level playing field for all
transport modes and a
minimal regulation
Tertiary ports rehabilitation               Civil works, equipment, and    Supervision missions
consultancy studies
Contract supervision
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



-25 -
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
The project would consist of the following six main components:
(a) Concessioning of CFM Ports and Railways
(b) Staff Rationalization
Staff redundancy
* Staff Statutory Pension
Staff retraining, redeployment
Social Mitigation
Pension Fund
Pension Study
* Information Dissemination
(c) Corporate Restructuring
(d) MTC Strengthening
Organizational
Civil Aviation
(e) Regulatory Reform
Economic
Technical for CFM
* Technical for Civil aviation
(f) Tertiary Ports
* Rehabilitation
Contract Supervision
Inhambane Port Study
The following is a description of the components
Component 1. Concessioning of CFM Ports and Railways. (More details atAnnex 2.1 at the end of Annex2).
Background. The corporate mission of the restructured CFM is to transform Mozambique's railways and ports
into a modem, competitive, efficient, market-driven, financially viable railway and port transport system with
sufficient capacity to meet the transport needs of the country and its neighbors. CFM is committed to foster
private sector participation as the key to this development. In its new role, CFM would thus act primarily as
investor/shareholder, promoter, and developer, and to a much lesser degree than today as operator. Although the
transportation sector would remain its main focus, it recognizes that diversification is crucial to its further
development, particularly given its vast property assets throughout the country. It thus proposes to enter into joint
ventures also in areas such as tourism, transportation-related industries, construction, and real estate development.
Status. The current situation and next steps of the principal elements of CFM's concessioning program are
summarized below.
Concessioning of the Nacala port-railway system including the port terminals, the sea and land-side port services,
and the rail systems linking the port of Nacala to the rail system in Malawi. A Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) has been signed with a consortium of private partners and negotiations on the concession agreement are
proceeding.



-26-
Concessioning of the Beira port-railway system including the port terminals, the sea and land-side port services,
and the rail systems linking the port of Beira to the rail system in Zimbabwe. Concessions have been awarded for
the operation and management of the container, general cargo, and cold storage terminals. A joint venture for the
development of a grain terminal is under consideration. The Machipanda rail line is to be concessioned together
with the Sena line, in order to facilitate the mobilization of capital for the rehabilitation of the latter and to derive
the advantages of scale through ruming of an integrated system. CFM's target is to start the Sena rehabilitation
works by June 2000. No private interest has yet materialized with respect to operation of the maritime services,
which for now will continue to be managed by CFM.
Concessioning of the Maputo port-rail system, for which the concessioning process was completed under the
MCRP. MoUs have been signed with (a) Consorcio 2000 for the concession of the Limpopo and Goba rail links,
the marshalling yard, and the workshop; and (b) Maputo Harbor Consortium for the master concession of the port
of Maputo and the coal terminal at Matola. Negotiations with Transnet for the concession of the Ressano-Garcia
rail link have been canceled on the basis of the last offer, which was considered unsatisfactory. CFM is currently
developing alternative options for concessioning of this link.
Description. This component would cover the costs of advisory services which CFM may require as conceding
authority to design, negotiate, implement and monitor concession agreements. It would also focus on providing
advisory services which CFM may need to structure, implement and carry out its new role as equity shareholder
in concessions and joint ventures. The component would provide assistance in areas relevant for concessioning
and joint-venturing, such as legal assistance for preparation and negotiation of concessions, articles of
incorporation and shareholder agreements, as well as for contract interpretation and dispute resolution;, assistance
in questions of finance, accounting, asset valuation, and resource mobilization; assistance in specialized technical
matters, including those pertaining to the environment; and assistance in market intelligence and assessment.
Assistance under the Project. The allocation of total cost for this component is US$ 1.0 million (about I% of the
Project cost).
Component 2. Staff Rationalization
Studies show that CFM, with the current staff strength of nearly 19,200, is grossly overstaffed. As a result,
average labor productivity indicators in both the Railways and Ports sectors are below CFM's targets. Based on a
detailed staff inventory and functional analysis for each port-railway system, the staff requirements have been
estimated to be about 7,000, leaving a surplus of close to 12,200. However, to avoid over or under retrenchment,
it is intended that the potential concessionaires would be given the first right to select staff from the existing CFM
pool according to need and the staff not selected would be deemed surplus. The actual number of staff to be
retired early or retrenched would, therefore, be known only after the selected concessionaires have made their
choices.
In order to minimize the adverse impact of involuntary separations of such a large number of surplus staff, the
Government of Mozambique and CFM have developed a staff rationalization program that offers: (a) specially
designed retirement and retrenchment packages; (b) redeployment support to help workers find alternative jobs or
become self-employed; (c) social mitigation measures; (d) to create a pension fund for the remaining CFM
employees; (e) a comprehensive pension study for all public enterprises including CFM: and (f) an angements for
timely dissemination of information to all concerned.



-27-
Staff Redundancy
Of the 12,200 surplus staff, close to 9,400 joined CFM before 1989 when CFM became autonomous and are
governed by civil service regulations. The remaining 2,800 or so were hired after January 1989 and are governed
by existing labor law. CFM has designed separate packages for both categories of staff and has secured union
agreement to the contents and timing of the redundancy packages by providing financial incentives and
assurances about the availability of funds, both from the Government for the payment of legally acquired pension
rights and from IDA under the project for those components which are retrenchment-related and exceed normal
pension claims.
(i)  Retirement Packages for Staff Governed by Civil Service Regulations
Normal retirement: Normal retirement is applicable to staff who have reached the age of 60 for men and 55 for
women, or those who have completed 35 years of service. In addition to normal pension entitlements, CFM has
agreed to pay six months basic salary on a lump-sum basis to provide income support for workers during the
transition period during which the regular pension entitlements are being computed and processed.
Early retirement: Existing pension rules allow for voluntary early retirement for employees with a minimum of
15 years of service. However, staff have not made use of this option given the loss of pension benefits. In view
of this, CFM has developed supplements in addition to the normal pension entitlements payable by the Ministry
of Planning and Finance (MPF) (according to existing pension rules) as per the formula agreed with the unions
(Table 1). The early retirement incentive will also cover employees who do not meet the minimum 15 years of
service to qualify for early retirement, and payment of the monthly pension contribution (7% of basic wages) up
to 15 years of service would be paid by CFM to the Government of Mozambique (GOM). In addition, early
retirees would receive six months basic salary to provide transition support. Pending the establishment of the
pension fund (see below), the net present value of the supplementary pension would be paid either as lump sum or
in installments not exceeding the project implementation period.
Table 1
Item No.               Service                Total Pension
1.     Between 31 and 35 years                100%
2.     Between 26 and 30 years                 90%
3.     Between 21 and 25 years                 80%
4.     Between 15 and 20 years                 70%
5.     Less than 15 years                      60%
(ii) Severance Packages for Staff Governed by the Labor Law
As per the labor law (Article 26), CFM must compensate redundant staff according to the following criteria: (i) in
the case of contracts for a definite period, the compensation must correspond to the remuneration up to the time
foreseen in the contract; and (b) in the case of contracts for indefinite periods, termination benefits for staff over
three years of service amount to three months salary for every two years of service. The negotiated package
increases this amount to six months salary for every two years of service. Staff in this category will receive six
months salary on a lump-sum basis as income support during the transition period.
Assistance under the Project. All payments to retrenched staff except for pensions payable on their reaching
the normal age of retirement would be covered under the project. These would comprise: (a) statutory pension
payments for early retirees until they reach the normal retirement age; (b) the pension supplement to make the
severance payments more attractive to the retrenched staff; (c) severance payments to staff who joined CFM
after 1989 and are not considered belonging to the civil service and are not entitled to pension; and (d)
transition payments to all retrenched staff. The NPV of these payments is estimated at US$84.0 million (70%
of the Project cost), the estimate for the statutory payments being about US$60.0 million. Agreement has been
reached with CFM that staff accepting any of the above packages would not be re-employed by CFM.



-28-
Staff Redeployment
A staff redeployment program has been developed to help staff deal with job loss, counsel them on individual
options available, and provide support in labor-market integration or setting up of small businesses. A small
technical unit in CFM will be created to manage the staff rationalization program including the development and
implementation of the redeployment program. The unit would comprise a unit head, a social scientist, a
psychologist, two economists, two engineers, one administrative accountant, a few field counselors, and other
specialists as deemed necessary. The unit is envisaged for a period of five years but the initial contracts for its
key members would be for a period of two years. CFM is developing the design and set up of the technical unit,
preparing job descriptions for its members, and defining criteria for the preparation and appraisal of pilot projects
as well as a supervision and monitoring system. In developing the redeployment program, the unit would make
use of the survey that was carried out by a consultant of 3,020 randomly selected CFM workers across all four
regions. The objectives of the survey were to assess the demand for different types of redeployment support and
identify the main target groups for receiving support. The survey shows that workers have most interest in
obtaining basic business training to help start up their own businesses as well as agricultural assistance. Regional
differences in attitudes and expectations will be taken into account in developing the detailed options.
(i)   Counseling and Employment Services
The transition from many years of wage dependency to a life of self-determined survival will be traumatic for
many CFM staff. Counseling would aim to: (a) inform workers about the various retrenchment packages and
their legal rights; (b) provide financial counseling to help workers decide how best to utilize the packages;
(c) explain the redeployment options including skills and business training opportunities, micro-financing sources,
and employment opportunities; and (d) deal with the social and psychological aspects of sudden unemployment
within family and community.
(ii)  Training
Retraining programs will be developed to help retrenched workers reintegrate into the labor market or become
self-employed. Training is provided to reduce the job search period or equip workers with the skills to start their
own businesses, thereby reducing the social problems of unemployment. Training programs would be closely
linked to the job opportunities in the labor market as well as to the characteristics of the workers. Appropriate
options for the delivery of training services would be determined including the use of existing training institutions
in Mozambique and distance learning.
(iii) Support for Small Projects
As the capacity to find a job in the formal sector is limited, economic reinsertion for many would have to be via
self-employed or cooperative activities. In Mozambique the three main avenues for self-employment are farming,
productive artisan-based activities (e.g., mechanics, electricians, plumbers, welders), and small commercial
activities such as vending. As few are likely to obtain substantial loans to start their own businesses, participation
in a micro-finance scheme would be an alternative option, funds for which could be allocated under the Project.
Initially, pilot projects comprising 10-15 retrenched staff would be designed and initiated, and the investment
financed on a credit basis up to a maximum of US$100,000 per project. The priority areas for these projects are
expected to be in agriculture, small-scale agro-industry, and small-scale construction units.
Redeploymentfund. Social mitigation would include not only the usual items such as counseling, establishment
of libraries, community centers etc., but the creation of a specific "Redeployment Fund" to meaningfully employ
some of the surplus staff in small projects. As the capacity to find ajob in the formal sector is limited, economic
reinsertion through self-employment or cooperative activities needs to be actively pursued. This fund would be
the key component of social mitigation. In Mozambique the main avenues for self-employment would be
agriculture and artisan based activities. Agriculture is likely to appeal to rural based workers. Establishing a small
business requires minimum vocational skills and some initial investment. Under this, financing would be



- 29-
provided under "best practice" principles with long term sustainability in mind. Loans would be provided under
the specific conditions of the participating operators and would be granted after rigorous requirements are met
such as accredited proof of skill or educational qualifications, completion of prescribed courses, business plans,
official attestation from counseling service, etc. To begin with only two or three pilot projects would be
undertaken and depending on the results obtained, the scheme would be extended.
Broad Outline. Some of the features of how the proposed deployment of fund would work are as under:
No.                                           Description
1   Avenues for self-   Agriculture, construction, maintenance, small artisan-based
employment          workshops such as mechanics, electricians, plumbers, welders.
2   Group size         Ideally 15 in a group, with the minimum being ten.
3   Financing
arrangements
Type of Fund        The Redeployment Fund would in the nature of revolving fund
with a capital of US$2.0 million.
Amount of loan      Maximum value of US$100,000.
Own Equity          Although normally it would be ideal to have equity
participation (ten to 20%) which may be drawn from
severance pay, the amount of severance pay being not large,
equity participation would not be insisted upon.
Term                Medium- to long-term.
Interest rate       Concessional interest rates would be charged.
4   Pre-requisites      a) Completion of an approved business course for some key
members of the group.
b) Technical & Feasibility report.
c) Business plans.
5   Evaluation          This would also involve actual field visits to verify the
feasibility of the project.
6   Administration      This would be a sub-unit under the Staff Technical Unit.
Regular field visits to examine the implementation and
operation of the small projects would be provided for.
7   Supervision         Supervision would be made by a seven-member Board
consisting of one representative from the Ministry of Planning
& Finance, one representative from the Ministry of Transport
& Communications, two from the donor community
(including one from the World Bank) and three from CFM .
8   Audit               The "Redeployment Fund" would be specifically audited by
an international auditing firm.
Appointment of Consultant A short term consultant would be appointed to develop a manual for the
implementation of small business projects.
Assistance under the Project. The allocation of total cost for this sub-component (US$7.0 million, about 6% of
the Project cost) is as follows: (a) the staff rationalization unit for providing counseling and employment services
including the costs of personnel as well as of equipment - US$2.5 million; (b) Training and retraining of staff
covering the costs of course fees, distance learning, and the like - US$3.0 million; and (c) small projects - US$1.5
million. The funds for small projects would be made available after the review of the experience of the first
schemes to be financed internally by CFM. Criteria for preparation and appraisal of pilot projects and supervision
and monitoring systems would be worked out in detail before any funds are disbursed.



- 30-
Social Mitigation
A draft report to assess the adverse social impact of staff rationalization and to suggest mitigation measures was
submitted by the consultants in early April 1999. The package of measures to be implemented would be finalized
shortly. The detailed assistance for social mitigation would be defined on the basis of the consultant's report with
an overall budgetary provision of US$0.6 million.
Pension Fund
CFM has been considering the creation of a pension fund for the staff who will not be retrenched remain either
with CFM or would be employed by the concessionaires. The proposed pension fund would be developed and
managed by a professional entity with expertise in dealing with pension administration. CFM is currently in
discussion with insurance companies and fund managers to explore the best options in this regard.
Assistance under the Project. Any assistance required under the project would depend on the conclusions in the
consultant's final report. For surplus staff, the option of a lump-sum payment or payments in several installments
over the project period would be considered if the pension fund cannot be established within a reasonable period.
For existing staff continuing to be employed by CFM or the concessionaires, the current contributions to the
Government pension scheme would continue to be deducted until the pension fund is established and their
pension rights have been transferred, or a different scheme implemented. A provision for consultancy support to
the extent of US$0.5 million has been made for this sub-component.
Pension Study
MoF has been having difficulties in meeting its obligations towards staff under the social security system retiring
on reaching the normal retirement age. Already, about 4,500 staff of CFM, having retired during the last 5 years,
are awaiting the settlement of their pensions by the Ministry. Another 1,700 cases of normal retirement are due to
be sent to the Ministry soon. The delay is mainly due to the inability of the Government to make the necessary
budgetary allocations for retirement due to inadequacy of resources. As such, GOM has decided to undertake a
comprehensive Pension Study for all public enterprises including CFM and implement the accepted
recommendations. The study will establish GOM's actuarial liability for public sector staff, make
recommendations for the institutional arrangements, such as a retirement fund, for managing the pension scheme
on behalf of GOM, and identify ways to make the proposed institutional arrangement financially sustainable. A
provision for consultancy support to the extent of US$ 1.0 million has been made for this sub-component.
Information Dissemination
CFM proposes to develop a system to disseminate information on a regular basis both to the staff affected by
rationalization as well as to the outside world regarding the issues pertaining to the restructuring of CFM in
general and the staff rationalization in particular. The proposed staff rationalization unit would design the
information dissemination system with the help of consultants. A provision for consultancy support and
equipment to the extent of US$0.4 million has been made for this sub-component.
Component 3. Corporate Restructuring
The existing entity, viz., CFM, Empressa Puiblica (CFM, EP), established through a Govemment decree and
charged with the responsibility for the development of the port-railway sectors and their effective management, is
planning to continue spinning-off its commercial activities, through the establishment of joint-ventures with
private investors and through the creation of fully-owned subsidiaries. As the spinning-off of its commercial
activities progresses, so will the number of shareholdings initially detained by CFM, EP. In order to clearly
separate CFM's commercial interests from its other activities, it is the CFM Board's intention to create an
incorporated limited company, to be called CFM, SARL, with a view to manage its subsidiaries and affiliates.
This company would initially be a fully-owned subsidiary of CFM, EP, although a minority equity participation



- 31 -
could later be sold to institutional investors, such as the foreseen pension fund. The creation of CFM, SARL is
subject, however, to the clarification of the legal framework for "holding" companies in Mozambique. A legal
framework study is proposed to be undertaken to clarify the legal framework and recommend changes in
legislation to enable the creation of the proposed holding and subsidiary companies This Project component
would focus on the preparation of a study on the spin-off of the commercial activities of CFM, EP under a new
holding company, on the new role of CFM, EP, and on the provision of consultant services and equipment to
enable the implementation of the recommendations of the study thereof. Inputs for this component would
comprise consultancy services and office equipment. Base cost of the component estimated at US$2.3 million is
to be financed by IDA (about 2% of the Project cost).
Component 4. MTC Strengthening
This component would include a study to (i) review of framework for transport policy; (ii) define the new
functions of MTC to discharge its role; (iii) assess MTC's organizational structure in the framework of this
evolving role; (iv) determine staffing requirements, taking into account the GOM's civil service reform program;
and (v) follow-up on legal and institutional arrangements for concessions, including the preparation of model(s)
for concession agreement(s)/contract(s). The component would also include the provision of consultant services
for technical assistance to enable the implementation of the recommendations of the study. In addition, technical
assistance would be provided under the Credit for strengthening the capabilities of MTC ' s Civil Aviation
Directorate in the formulation of sub-sector policies and strategies. Inputs for this component would comprise
consultancy services and office equipment. Base cost of the component estimated at US$1.7 million is to be
financed by IDA (about 1% of the Project cost).
Component 5. Regulatory Framework
This component would include a study to (i) identify the scope, functions, and instruments for the economic
regulatory framework; (ii) recommend the sectoral coverage and accountability relationships for the regulatory
institution(s); (iii) define the staffing, internal organization, operating costs and financing mechanisms for a new
regulatory agency; and (iv) prepare the required draft legislation. The component would also include the
provision of equipment and technical assistance services to enable the launching of the agency and the preparation
of its staff thereof. Additional finance provided under this component would cover the technical aspects of the
regulatory framework. Consultant services for a study and for technical assistance would be targeted at the
development of the required capabilities within CFM, EP to enable it to effectively discharge its role as a
supervisor of port and railway concession contracts. The strengthening of INAC's capabilities in the technical
regulation of the civil aviation sub-sector would also be addressed through the provision of technical assistance
services and equipment. Inputs for this component would comprise consultancy services and office equipment.
Base cost of the component estimated at US$7.2 million is to be financed by IDA (about 6% of the Project cost).
Component 6. Tertiary Ports
This component, amounting to around 8% of total project base cost, would include rehabilitation works for the
small ports of Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane. These works would be carried out in the
framework of a public/private partnership for port management and operations. The concession agreement for all
ports except Angoche, has already been negotiated with private parties. IDA financing for the rehabilitation of
these ports was initially envisaged under the ROCS 1 Project. However, since the closing date of the ROCS 1 is
June 30, 1999, GOM has requested that port rehabilitation is included and followed under the Project. Consultant
services would also be provided under this component for the supervision of the civil works in the four ports and
for the preparation of a study on the revitalization of the Inhambane Port.



- 32 -
Annex 2.1: Detailed Background and Current Status of Ports and Railways Concessioning
Background
CFM is the first railway/port authority in Southern Africa to have introduced private sector participation in the
railways and ports sector and in its other activities. The first privatization effort took place as early as May 1991
with the formation of a joint venture to manage and operate the rail-road terminal in Gare de Mercadorias. Since
then private sector involvement has been initiated or prepared for a number of operations. The current status of
private sector participation is reflected in the Table below.
Private Sector Participation in CFM
Terminal                     Party                Date
1. Lease
Coal Terminal, Matola       TCM                    May 1993
Sugar Terminal, Maputo      SSA & ZSA              February 1994
Citrus Terminal, Maputo     Outspan                September 1994
Mozal Terrninal             Mozal                  January 1998
2. Joint Ventures
Gare de Mercadorias         STM (CFM & Tertir)    December 1991
Container Terminal, Maputo    MIPS (CFM, Rennies,   July 1995
P&O)
Cold Storage Terminal, Beira   BCCS (CFM,          January 1996
Watertight)
Container and GC Termninals,   Cornelder, national  October 1998
Beira                       interests, CFM
3. Miscellaneous
Grain handling facilities at  Xigaio               July 1993
Matola
Tank farm of vegetable oils  Olivine               June 1980
and tallow at Beira
Tank farm for POL at the ports  Various oil companies   On-going since
of Maputo, Beira, and Nacala                       1950
Tank farn for vegetable oil    Lever Brothers      August 1994
and tallow at the port of Nacala
Cometal                     Tata (5 1%), CFM       January 1997
(15%), Private & staff
(34%)
Cimentos de Mocambique      Various (CFM 4%        December 1997
stake)
Maputo Corridor Development Various (CFM 25%       January 1998
Corporation                 stake)
Operational Alliance        Nectar Shipping        October 1998
Instituto de Transportes e  Various CFM (13.5%)   May 1998
Communicacoes
Over the course of the last few years, CFM and GOM have adopted the following general concessioning
principles which, in anticipation of a governmental concession policy, constitute the basis for any privatization
process and thus for negotiations with private companies.



- 33 -
All infrastructure facilities are concessioned and thus remain property of CFM.
Concessions involve operation, maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure and facilities.
Concessions are granted to joint-venture-companies comprising CFM, a Private Investor and interested
stakeholders.
The shares of concession companies are held by CFM 30%-33%, the Private Investor 51% and interested
stakeholders 16%-19%. The Private Investor can be a single firm or consortium and needs to have
relevant experience to operate and manage a rail or port system. Interested stakeholders may include
neighboring railways, freight forwarders, business groups, or financial institutions in whose interest it is
to generate future growth of railways and ports in Mozambique.
The Private Investor and interested stakeholders inject equity in cash, while CFM's contribution is
generally in kind (e.g., market value of equipment).
The concessionaires have to provide traffic targets and adopt intensive and innovative marketing efforts to
increase traffic levels.
The concession fee has three components: an initial down payment, and a fixed and variable part.
The concession period ranges from 15 to 25 years depending on the expected level of investment.
All infrastructure and facilities are handed over on "as is where is" basis. All investments required for
rehabilitating and upgrading the rail/port system need to be carried out and financed by the
concessionaire. The source of financing would be equity capital/shareholders' loans, surpluses generated
through operations and of commercial loans.
The contractual arrangements would include a concession agreement between CFM and the joint venture
company and a shareholders'/articles of association agreement between the partners.
Two essential features proposed to be included in the concession agreements are:
(a) Investment strategy: The emphasis in the new concession agreements has been on standards of
maintenance of the assets concessioned (e.g. channel depth, condition of the quay structure, track speed)
and not on the investment program as pre-agreed investment programs are difficult to administer. Once
the standards have been adequately defined, the concessionaire would be left free to develop an
investment program and financing plan to achieve the specified standards. The conceding authority as
technical regulator would ensure through frequent technical audits that the standards are being achieved
and maintained. The concession agreement provides for penalties in case standards are not achieved or
maintained.
(b) Compensationfor undepreciated investment: In general, for railways/ports, it is essential to make
periodic investments throughout the working life of these systems. However, not all of these assets will
be fully depreciated at a certain point of time, including the end of an individual concession. Concession
agreements will, therefore, include clauses to compensate the concessionaire at the end of the concession
period for the undepreciated value of the investments.
CFM's approach to private participation has been to carefully select its strategic partners based on the following
criteria: (a) internationally recognized companies with long experience and relevant know-how in the transport,
logistics, and distribution industry; (b) capacity and ability to improve and substantially increase trade flows through
the Mozambican corridors and ports; (c) strong capabilities to mobilize the necessary financial resources for new
investments and maintenance to international standards; (d) capacity to achieve high levels of return and
consequently generate dividends for CFM/GOM; and (e) ability to tap the global network of the ocean-going trade
and transport industry.



- 34-
Maputo Corridor
Supported by the IDA-financed Maputo Corridor Revitalization Project (MCRP), CFM designed a concession
framework and in late 1997 launched a bidding process for the Maputo Corridor railway system and Maputo port
After bid evaluation and award, GOM signed in July 1998 a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Consorcio
2000 for the Limpopo and Goba rail lines, and the marshalling yard and workshops. Negotiations with this
Consortium on the concession agreement have started in October 1998 and are expected to be fnalized end-1999.
Negotiations with South Africa's Transnet regarding the Ressano Garcia rail line have been canceled, and CFM is
considering alternative options. On the port side, a MoU with the Maputo Port Development Consortium was signed
in October 1998, and negotiations on the concession agreement have started in early 1999.
A master plan for private sector investment in the Matola Industrial Port is now being developed. The existing
channels would be retained as the main waterway with possible increase in draught to ten meters in the near future.
Separate areas would be earmarked for break bulk such as general cargo, exports of cold storage products,
aluminum, steel slabs, pulp and paper products, and ferro-alloys as well as for dry bulk and liquids such as imports
of petroleum, alumina, grain, sulphur and exports of coal, and wood chip. The zoning at Matola seeks to separate
clean dry bulk, dirty dry bulk, break bulk and petroleum products. Better road access is also planned.
The Ponta Dobela project was designed in the mid 1970's to cater to the traffic requirements of the hinterland region.
However due to a number of economic and political reasons, the project was not pursued. CFM has recently signed
a MoU with Colyn Braun and partners to continue with the project development. Some of the expected benefits
include positive effects on the balance of trade, enhancement of Mozambique's transport competitiveness through a
cost-effective alternative to South Africa's Richard's Bay, direct and indirect employment, and development of
commercial, industrial, mining and natural resources in the region. The project is estimated to cost around
US$200.0 - US$250.0 million. When the terminal is fully operational, the traffic expected to be handled is 20 mtpa.
CFM would have a 30% equity in the joint venture company with another 10% for Mozambican interests.
Beira Corridor
Beira port. The Cold Storage Terminal was concessioned to Watertight in 1996, and the Container and the
General Cargo Terminals to Comelder de Mocambique in 1998. Operations of the latter started in October. A
joint venture for the development of a grain terminal is under consideration. CFM has also approached a number
of private partners with respect to concessioning of the maritime services. However, the interest demonstrated to
date has not been sufficient to proceed with either a competitive bid or a sole source selection, and CFM is
considering options for hiring independent contractors under its own management.
A consultancy firm was engaged to undertake a pre-feasibility study on the development of the Moatize coal
mine. The study was financed through the Danish Trust Fund and administered by the Bank. The main objective
was to establish the feasibility of mining and exporting coal from the Moatize coalfields taking into consideration
costs of mining and transportation. Coal reserves in the Moatize region are estimated at 2.5 billion tons. The
potential production levels range between two and nine million tpa depending on the investments. The study
concluded that the now defunct Sena rail line would be the most cost-effective alternative, specifically in
comparison with transport to Nacala. The latter would require higher investment because of construction of a new
connecting rail line and would also imply higher operating costs.
GOM has accorded the highest national priority to the rehabilitation of the Sena line. A Round Table Conference
of potential investors and donors recently held in Beira attracted a lot of interest, in particular on the part of private
mining companies which plan to develop the Moatize coalfields for the purpose of export of coking and on-site use
of steam coal. A number of financing institutions as well as other potential users of the line for transport of sugar,
limestone, cement, etc. have already had discussions with CFM on how best to structure an investment and
financing package for the Sena line rehabilitation on a BOT basis. Because of the investment requirements for
infrastructure alone (approximately US$200.0 million), CFM is currently considering a BOT contract of up to 50
years under a joint concession agreement for the Sena and the Machipanda lines. The operationalBeira-Machipanda
rail line would provide positive cash flow already in the early years, which would facilitate the mobilization of



- 35 -
financing. China has also shown interest in providing official financing for the reconstruction of the Sena line. In
order to accelerate the relevant decision, CFM intends to form a Consortium of potential players as soon as
possible. It is then expected that the line could be rehabilitated within two to five years depending on the
technology used for its rehabilitation. Simultaneously it would be necessary to increase the existing coal handling
facilities in the Port of Beira, or to construct a new bulk port north of the city in accordance with plans pursued by
South Africa's mining company JCI Limited.
Nacala Corridor
The current performance of the Nacala corridor is encouraging with the traffic level in 1998 showing a 23%
increase compared to the same period of 1997. More traffic could be moved over the corridor if the following
issues were addressed: (a) urgent rehabilitation of the Cuamba - Entre Lagos section linking the rail line to
Malawi; and (b) better operational performance to reduce the present high turnaround time of wagons and their
poor availability. A diagnostic and feasibility study for the Nacala Corridor financed by the European Union has
been completed.
An understanding on initiation of a concession was reached between CFM and a consortium of investors and
Railways and Ports operators on a sole-source basis in November 1997. Under this arrangement the consortium
submitted in May 1998, a proposal for a concession to operate and manage the Nacala port-rail system. The
proposal was not considered satisfactory by CFM, and preliminary negotiations held in November 1998 have
focused on issues such as projected traffic levels, the need and financing source of desired public investment
(US$80.0 million), the financial structure and the level of concession fees. The second round of negotiations in
January 1999 was successful and resulted in the conclusion of a MoU. Negotiations on the concession agreement
are underway.
The proposed concession also includes the now largely inoperative Cuamba-Lichinga connection. Considerable
traffic has been projected to originate from the northern region of Mozambique, but commercial and fmancial
viability of rehabilitating this line have not been established. CFM's own internal study has indicated that the
connection can be rehabilitated in two phases: the first phase comprising replacement of about 50% of sleepers and
20% ballast at a cost of about US$10.0 million, and the second phase comprising the remainder of necessary
rehabilitation works, estimated at US$26.0 million. CFM has also decided to bid for the Malawi Railways
concession and has included the Nacala Consortium with a 51% shareholding.



- 36-
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Project Cost
_________   (US$ million)
Total CostI
Component                     Local       Foreign   |   Total
Concessioning of CFM Ports & Railways            0.2          0.8          1.0
Staff Rationalization                           87.6          5.9         93.5
- Staff Redundancy                            84.0                 1    84.0
- Staff Redeployment                           3.0           4.0         7.0
- Social Mitigation                            0.2           0.4         0.6
- Pension Fund                                 0.1           0.4         0.5
- Pension Study                                0.2           0.8         1.0
- Information Dissemination                    0.1           0.3         0.4
Corporate Restructuring                          0.5          1.8          2.3
MTC Strengthening                                0.3          1.4          1.7
- New Role and Functions                       0.2           0.8   I     1
- Civil Aviation Strategy                      0.1           0.6   l     0.7
Regulatory Framework                             1.6          5.6          7.2
- Economic                                    1.0           4.0   l     5.0
- Technical for Ports and Railways            0.4           0.9         1.3
- Technical Civil Aviation                    0.2           0.7         0.9
Tertiary Ports                                   0.4          8.6          9.0
- Infrastructure Rehabilitation               0.0           8.2         8.2
- Supervision of Works                        0.2           0.2   ,     0.4
- Inhambane Port Study                        0.2           0.2         0.4
Total Baseline Cost (w/o contingencies)         90.6         24.1        114.7
Contingency - Physical (@ 10% on civil works)    0.0    l     0.8          0.8
Contingency - Price (@ 4% on total)              3.4    1     1.1          4.5
Total Project Cost                              94.0   {    26.0   !   120.0



-37-
Annex 4A: CFM's Current and Past Performance
I.   CFM. Mocambique has three important transport corridors each consisting of integrated railways and port
facilities and serving primarily regional transit traffic. The corridors are distinct geographical segments with no
physical linkages between them in Mocambique. The corridors are managed and operated by Portos e Caminhos de
Ferro de Mocambique, E.P. (CFM). It is the largest rail-port system in Sub-Saharan Africa under one management
after South Africa. The Maputo Corridor system comprises: (a) the port of Maputo; (b) a 534- km long rail line
linking the port of Maputo to the network of the National Railways of Zimbabwe (also known as Limpopo line); (c)
a 68-km long rail line linking the port of Maputo to the network of Swaziland Railways (also known as Goba line);
and (d) an 88-km long rail line linking the port of Maputo to the network of South African railway (also known as
Ressano-Garcia line). The Beira Corridor system comprises: (i) the port of Beira; (ii) a 331-km long rail line
linking the port of Beira to the Malawi Railways network (also known as Sena line but currently non-operational and
in need of massive rehabilitation); (iii) a 317-km long rail line linking the port of Beira to the network of the
National Railways of Zimbabwe (also known as Machipanda line); and (iv) a 200-km long link, off the Sena line, to
the Moatize coalfields which is also currently non-operational. TheNacala Corridor system comprises: i) the port
of Nacala; ii) a 615-km long rail line linking the port of Nacala to the Malawi Railways network; and iii) a 267-km
long rail line from Cuamba to Lichinga. All the three ports are equipped to handle containers, oils and liquids, and
many other types of general and special cargo. On January 1, 1995, CFM was transformed into an autonomous
public company to be managed through a Board of Directors appointed by the Government of Mozambique (GOM)
in its capacity as the sole shareholder of the company. The complexity, size, and the spread of the port and rail
system in Mozambique poses a major challenge to its effective management.
2.   Transit Advantage. The geographical setting of Mozambique makes it an ideal country for the
international transit trade of the neighboring countries of Zimbabwe, Swaziland and Malawi as also the North
Eastern Transvaal Region of the Republic of South Africa. The rail and road distances to the Mozambique sea
ports - Nacala, Beira, and Maputo - are considerably shorter than those by alternative routes. This gives
tremendous advantage in transit transport costs.
3.   Pre-Conflict Performance. Before the outbreak of conflict in the 1980s, the three ports and the
corresponding rail routes attracted a major share of the overseas export and imnport traffic of the neighboring
countries. In 1975, the peak year of operation, the three ports handled a total of about 15 million tons (mt) of traffic,
10 million tons being the overseas export/import traffic from the neighboring countries - South Africa (4.5 mt),
Zimbabwe (2.5 mt), Swaziland (2.1 mt), and Malawi (0.7 mt). The three railway systems also moved a total of 13
million tons, I I million tons being the export/import traffic. Apart from providing the shortest and the least
expensive access to sea ports from the land-locked countries in the region, the intensive use of the port-railway
systems led to their becoming one of the largest employers in Mozambique (about 30,000 staff). Prior to
independence in 1975, the considerable deficit on the merchandise account was financed by a surplus on the services
account. In 1973, for example, the deficit on merchandise account of the balance of payments was US$115.0
million while the corresponding surplus on the services account was US$122.0 million, the transport sector
accounting for 90% of this surplus.
4.   Performance Decline Consequent to Conflict. As a result of the conflict, considerable damage of the
infrastructure and facilities occurred and resulted in unreliable and uncertain operations. This in turn provoked lack
of confidence from customers and, consequently, by the end of the 1980s, the trade flows had declined sharply to
their lowest levels, about 5.0 and 3.0 million tons for the ports and the railways respectively. The consequences
were painful for Mozambique as well as the land-locked countries served by these rail-port systems. Mozambique's
foreign exchange earnings declined by about 80%, and, with the staff and assets being maintained at the original
level, the operations on all the three rail-port systems resulted in big yearly losses. The land-locked countries were
also forced to use the much longer rail and road routes to the ports in South Africa with a consequently high increase
in their surface transport costs, cumulatively estimated at about US$200.0 million per year.



-38-
5.    Signs of Improvement. During the last ten years, GOM with the assistance from the donor agencies and
the World Bank, has been successful in rebuilding the port and rail infrastructure to a large extent and reverse the
declining trend of performance. During 1996, the ports and the railways handled a total of 8.0 and 4.0 million
tons of traffic respectively, an increase over 1990 of 40% and 30% respectively. The traffic earnings also
increased to about US$90.0 million equivalent, an increase of a little more than 80%. CFM is likely to reach the
traffic levels reached during the peak year of 1975 as is evident from: (a) the increasing traffic levels in a] I the
systems with the exception of the Central system, where the traffic is temporarily stagnant for reasons whtich are
linked to the economic problems in Zimbabwe; and (b) new shipping lines now calling at Mozambican ports, which
is an unequivocal indication of their recognition of the role Mozambique can play as an excellent transit country due
to its geo-strategic position. As the criteria of transport/logistics cost/efficiency rationale gets reestablished, CFM
could expect to capture the traffic for which it has an advantage through its initiative of associating with the private
sector and eventually increasing the efficiency of the system, quality of services, and interactions with the users.
6.    Future Challenge. Since the cessation of hostilities in Mozambique, the overseas exports/imports by the
neighboring countries have increased both in CFM-North and CFM-South sub-systems. In CFM-Center, the level
of the port traffic has been steady while the rail traffic has declined by about 19% due mainly to decrease in
export of food grains from Zimbabwe and in its imports. The benefits to the Mozambican economy from this
traffic transiting through the ports of Mozambique can be quite significant. The two-fold challenge for the three
port-railway systems is, therefore, quite clear: (i) to improve the quality of service so as to capture all the traffic
on offer; and (ii) to operate efficiently so as generate a surplus. The identification of a comprehensive
restructuring program, viz., the Railways and Ports Restructuring Project (RPRP), by CFM is the logical response
to the rising expectations from the rail and the port sectors. The focus of the new project would be on addressing
all the key constraints and issues in a comprehensive manner.
CFM's Past and Current Performance
Item           Units      1975    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Rail
Total FreightTraffic   Million Tons  13.4    3.1      2.2     2.5     3.1      2.6     3.1     4.1      3.8     4.1
International Traffic    Million Tons  11.2  2.0      1.4     1.7     2.2      2.2     2.8     3.6      3.2     3.3
%           84       65      64      68       71      85      90       88      84      80
Total Freight Traffic   Million Ton-    2,413  422   306      573     652     655      893     983     896      775
kms
Passengers          000s           5,632   2,344    1,818     892   1,848   3,088   5,470   5,677   4,092   3,212
Port
Total Port Traffic  Million Port    14.9     6.0      5.8     6.2     6.6      6.5     7.5      8.4     9.0     7.6
Tons
Transit Traffic     Million Port     9.8      4.9     4.8     5.4      5.9     6.1     7.1      6.9     7.2     5.6
Tons
Financial
Revenues - (a)      Million Mt                62      99      214     295     467      764    1,070   1,092     860
(Operating)
Expenditure - (b)   Million Mt                54      100     184     299     490   1,376   1,888   1,633   1,515
(Operating)
Operating Ratio (b)/(a) Percentage            87      101      86     101      105     180     176      150     176
Deficit (Operating)    Million Mt             +8        1     +30       4      23      612     818     541      655
Staff-RelatedCosts    MillionMt               20      28       41      71      110     191     311     404      308
Staff-Related Costs as  Percentage            32      28       19      24      24       25      29      37       36
% of Revenue



- 39-
Annex 4B: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
The economic analysis for the main railways and ports components of the Project was carried out by Consultants,
the Netherlands Economic Institute, following Terms of Reference prepared by, and a methodology agreed with,
IDA. Results of the analysis were revised during appraisal, in close consultation with CFM staff. This revised
assessment, including the model developed by Bank staff for the economic and risk analysis, is available in
Project Files (see Annex 8). For the Tertiary Ports component, the analysis was developed by GAPROMAR,
assisted by Consultants Scott Wilson, and revised by Bank staff during appraisal. The Consultant background
reports are also available in the Project File.
A:   The Framework
The components of the Project are mostly targeted at enabling and facilitating the concession of Mozambique's
main port/railways systems. To this extent, it is important to assess the expected costs and benefits associated
with an increased private participation, for the economy as a whole. On the benefit side, the overriding goal to be
pursued is the increase in foreign exchange earnings from transit traffic, resulting from improved efficiency in the
provision of transport services in the corridors. Simultaneously, the private sector is expected to undertake
substantial capital investments during the period of the concessions. These investments are targeted at
accommodating the foreseen increase in traffic, and at preventing the deterioration of the conceding assets below
acceptable serviceability levels.
The privatization process has underscored the considerable amount of unproductive labor employed by CFM,
leading to the preparation of a staff rationalization program. The privatization process has also determined the
need for a corporate restructuring of CFM aimed, inter-alia, at spinning-off the management of its business
activities, including minority stockholdings in the concession companies. Moreover, and in order to
accommodate an increasing private participation in the sector, the decision was taken to develop an independent
regulatory framework and to assess the new role and organizational structure of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC).
The interdependence of the above developments, led to their joint consideration in the economic analysis of the
main Railways and Ports Restructuring Project. Nevertheless, a separate economic analysis was carried out for the
staff rationalization program, which accounts for the majority of project costs. The analysis of the staff
rationalization program was based on the methodology initially developed by the Bank during appraisal of the
Brazil - Federal Railway Restructuring and Privatization Project (Report No. 15580-BR). Physical investments
in the tertiary port component were also independently assessed.
B.   Economic Analysis of the Program for the Railways and Ports Privatization and Restructuring
A key element to assess the costs and benefits of the proposed program is the scenario related to the "without-
case" situation. Without the involvement of the private sector, CFM would experience a chronic lack of
investment resources and marketing capability. Despite management efforts to the contrary, this would limit
increases in efficiency and hamper efforts to attract new customers in the competitive intemational transit routes.
As a result, potential foreign customers would continue to by-pass Mozambique's railways and ports;
domestically-generated foreign trade would shift to substitute railway modes whenever available; and captive
users would have to incur the direct (and indirect costs) arising from higher charges and/or lower quality of
services. Even so, traffic using CFM's facilities would grow at an average rate of some 5% p.a. over the next ten
years, and at 1.3% thereafter. With the concessioning to the private sector, the average annual growth rate for
traffic in the corridors is expected to be 10% in the first ten-year period, and 2.5% thereof. These traffic growth
rates are consistent with the business plans independently prepared for the negotiation of the concession
agreements.



- 40 -
The incremental traffic attracted under the privatization scenario would generate various benefits to the economy
of Mozambique. First, additional revenues from transit traffic are expected to increase to US$94.0 million in year
15 of the analysis from US$8.0 million in the second year (average revenue for ports and railways estimated at
US$10.0 per ton). Second, costs savings accruing to domestic shipping would increase to US$6.3 million in year
15 of the analysis from US$450,000 million in year two, as a result of a one day decrease per ship-stay in port to
be fully achieved in year five (corresponding to average cost savings per ton raging from $0.95 in Maputo to
US$0.74 for Beira). And third, avoided costs of road haulage would increase to US$1 1.3 million in year 15 of the
analysis from US$0.8 million in the first year, as a result of an avoided small shift for substitute road transport
whenever feasible. An average US$0.8 per ton km was assumed for the road transport cost.
Additional benefits from the privatization and restructuring program would also accrue from the marginal
productivity of displaced CFM workers elsewhere in the economy. Based on survey data, it is assumed that some
60% of redundant workers would be seeking alternative employment, and that 80% of these will be able to find
employment at a net income 20% above current CFM wages. This premium reflects mainly the foreseen gains in
labor productivity to be achieved as a result of the proposed training program.
The incremental costs for this program include the difference between the investments to be undertaken by the
concessionaire companies (NPV of US$146.0 million) and the investments that would otherwise be undertaken by
CFM (assumed at 50% of that value). Moreover; they include the costs still to be incurred with the concessioning
program (US$1.0 million); the costs of CFM's corporate restructuring (US$2.3 million); the attributable costs of
the regulatory framework and institutional strengthening (US$7.3 million); and the costs of staff retraining
(US$5.6 million).
For the privatization/restructuring program as a whole, an EIRR of 52% was estimated, corresponding to a NPV
of some US$357.0 million. The benefits are dominated by revenue gains from transit traffic (77%), followed by
avoided road transport costs (9%), costs savings for domestic shipping (6%), and labor productivity gains (8%).
Sensitivity analysis was carried out independently for the several sources of benefits and for the investment levels.
Results of the sensitivity analysis show that the EIRR would still be above 30% under the following sensitivity
assumptions: traffic growing by only some 7.5% p.a. (in the "with-case" scenario); increment in the traffic growth
rate limited to 2.5% (rather than 5%); shipping costs savings nil; avoidable road costs nil; and investments levels
20% above estimate.
Since there is limited interaction among developments in the various transport corridors, and within each corridor
the railway and port systems are closely related, the analysis was also carried out separately for each of the three
main port-railway systems. The calculation of investment efficiency indicators lead to the estimation of EIRRs
about 59%, 52% and 47% for the Beira, Maputo and Nacala corridors, respectively. This range of variation
essentially reflects the relative importance of the benefits derived from transit traffic in the three corridors.
C.   Economic Analysis of the Staff Rationalization Program
(i) Background
The staff rationalization program is aimed at facilitating the redeployment of some 12,200 unproductive CFM
staff towards productive activities elsewhere in the economy while mitigating adverse social impacts. To this
extent, the program includes mainly staff redeployment and social mitigation measures (including training), as
well as staff redundancy and statutory payments amounting to a total base cost of US$93.5 million In
unconstrained circumstances, the redundancy and statutory outlays (amounting to a base cost of US$84.0 million)
would be considered as transfers in the economic sense. However, in the case of Mozambique, where severe
budgetary constraints prevail, these outlays were considered as costs in the economic analysis to reflect their
opportunity cost. The underlying assumption is that by financing severance and early retirement obligations,
these public funds have an equivalent economic cost which needs to be factored into the analysis.
The analysis was initially developed for the staff redundancy program alone, with a view to independently
estimate the associated economic return. An incremental analysis was then carried out for the retraining program



- 41 -
towards assessing whether the additional resources to be allocated to training would be justified at the margin.
Benefits and costs for both programs were then consolidated, allowing for the estimation of investment efficiency
indicators for the staff rationalization program as a whole.
(ii) StaffRedundancy Program
Benefits from the staff redundancy program were estimated based on the marginal productivity value of the
foregone labor cost of CFM and on the marginal productivity value of laid-off labor elsewhere in the economy.
The former was estimated as equivalent to the foregone labor cost (an average of US$75.0 per worker-month).
The underlying assumption is that savings in labor costs can be used in railway-port investments to provide extra
capacity and/or improve efficiency. The marginal productivity value of laid-off labor, in turn, is estimated based
on the probability of former staff's engagement in a productive activity and of the net income generated by such
activity (conservatively estimated also at an average US$75.0 per worker-month, in the absence of the training
program). Based on surveys of the labor market, on CFM's existing staff profile, and on the estimated outcomes
of the training activities, that probability has been estimated at 48% countrywide.
Cash-flow analysis was then carried out by matching the estimated benefits and costs over a 20-year period. The
NPV for the staff redundancy program is estimated at about US$45.0 million, corresponding to an EIRR of 34%.
Sensitivity analysis was carried out for the probability of redundant staff finding an alternative productive activity
and for the marginal productivity value of laid-off labor. The impact of this sensitivity analysis on the EIRR is
reduced. Furthermore, and even in the extreme case that the marginal productivity value of laid-off labor would
be nil, investments in this component would still yield an EIRR estimated at some 16%, thus above the 12% value
assumed for the opportunity cost of capital.
(iii) Staff Training Program
An incremental NPV was then estimated for the labor retraining program. The key assumption is that trained
laid-off workers would see their net income potential outside CFM enhanced by some 20%. This premium was
estimated based on surveys of the labor market completed by interviews of local specialists. The costs of the
program include the provision of basic vocational and managerial training for some 60% of the laid-off workers
who have expressed interest in seeking training opportunities, through a survey targeted at assessing CFM
workers' revealed preferences. Program costs also include job counseling and allocable program administration
specifically targeted at improving productivity and marketability of displaced workers. Results of the economic
analysis for the labor training program lead to an estimated NPV of US$1.7 million and a corresponding EIRR of
21%, thus above the 12% value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital. This indicates that the additional
investmnent in training is justified at the margin.
(iv) ConsolidatedAnalysis
The flows of benefits and costs from the analysis of the staff redundancy and of the labor training programs were
then consolidated, yielding a NPV of about US$33.0 million and an EIRR of 25% for the staff rationalization
program as a whole.
D:  Economic Analysis of the Tertiary Ports Rehabilitation
Investments in the tertiary ports of Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane were initially considered
under the ROCS-1 Project, with the then proposed investments meeting IDA's eligibility criteria. During
appraisal, an economic re-assessment was carried out to reflect, inter-alia, updated traffic projections and
investment levels, including any required environmental mitigation measures.
In the absence of the proposed investments, ship loading operations in the ports of with continue at a very slow
pace. This would imply incurring ship time costs at their current US$15.0 per ton, rather than at US$3.75 per ton
as envisaged upon completion of the investments. Moreover, the improved ports would be capable of handling



- 42-
export traffic which would otherwise have to use alternative ports after a longer inland transport. In addition, the
rehabilitated ports are expected to generate additional traffic, on the form of exports of copra (priced at US$259.0
per ton), timber (priced at US$290.0 per ton) and cashew (priced at 3,523 per ton) which would not be otherwise
economically in view of the costly inland transport.
The above considerations imply that the proposed investments would yield attractive returns, even if the current
levels of traffic in the ports is low. EIRRs of 33%, 12%, 34% and 63% were estimated for the investments in the
ports of Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane, respectively. These estimates can be considered
conservative to the extent that benefits from generated exports have not be taken into account, as a result of the
difficulty in assessing the reliability of the available projections. Overall, the consolidated NPV for this
component is estimated at US$13.0 million whereas the EIRR (weighted by investment) is estimated at 34.7%,
thus well above the value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital.
E:   Economic Analysis of the IDA-financed Components, i.e., Staff Rationalization and
Tertiary Ports Rehabilitation
The consolidated NPV for the IDA-financed components, i.e., staff rationalization and tertiary ports
rehabilitation, weighted by investments, is US$40.5 million and the EIRR is 25.9%.
F:   Risk Analysis
Stochastic risk analysis was also carried out using Monte-Carlo simulation. Since the model has the capability to
inter-link the various programs subject to specific economic analysis, the simulations were jointly carried out,
using available commercial software (Crystal Ball). In order to factor uncertainty into the analysis, four key
variables were selected as a function of their major influence in the project net benefits: probability of redundant
staff looking for a job; expected net income; benefits from transit traffic; and investments in railways and ports.
As indicated below, independent triangular probability distributions were assumed for the selected variables, with
the extreme values reflecting available evidence andfor experience elsewhere. Using the possibilities offered by
Crystal Ball, the distributions for the probability of looking for ajob and for the expected net income on one hand,
and the distributions for transit traffic and investments on the other, were assumed as positively correlated.
U,   U,   0.51  an   1.                       11  W"  0* en    .M
a  4l  oa3  as?   c                     OD   7    so   go   RX



- 43 -
One thousand simulations were then carried out, and frequency distributions generated for the EIRRs for the
following programs: labor retraining; staff redundancy; staff rationalization program (consolidated); and main
rail/port privatization and restructuring. The corresponding cumulative charts are presented below, together with
the likely certainty levels for the estimated EIRR.
FaotERRbslhn                       lhntElFglb
t@>OTd ~ ~~~~~~~~~ OnllCm                                            ml-1 |  1TbaFe1iB
Pm51RRPb.iha%    F_ _t    Mmi-& .    _-
I,MTeWh        O.  . Owt         11             %=Tek          cl: _dv. cw      C O,Ih.
7                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Oe r   of te _o                 _ sw  ta      e rk   t  e          e        s     d nt 
(52%3  1In   aa                                                          an --  ;          12a 
except for the,5i lao tanigpoga  wihha   crant  f ee ofouonly*187o. This componentsdhoulb
IO <- >  = 1 ; > ! ~~,,r 
Ovrerall, theitresut ofrthe simulametinatinalsi showthcuatli therisk tha the estmuatied numbrs wouldinotabed aChive
workers finding alternative productive activities and of their net-incomes thereof.
G:   Basic Assumptions for the Analysis
The following basic assumptions were considered throughout the economic analysis:
*Costs were estimated at mid-1998 prices, net of taxes and other transfer payments, and expressed in US$
terms. A 0.80 conversion factor was used for railway and port operating costs. Capital investmnents costs
were considered inclusive of physical contingencies and supervision costs.
The discount rate was set at 12%.
No shadow pricing was used for labor or foreign exchange.
The period of analysis is 20 years.
Laid-off labor would was assumed as having an average of some ten more years to go before retirement.



- 44-
Annex 4C: Financial Analysis Summary
Background
1.   CFM's financial position has progressively weakened in the past. Over the most recent four-year period
(1994-1997), it has shown net book losses between US$3.5 and US$49.8 million, the latter mainly due to the
revaluation of assets in 1995 leading to large provision for depreciation (US$77.0 million and US$65.0 million
respectively in 1996 and 1997). Further, CFM has been making salary payments amounting to US$3.5 million
each year for about 4,500 staff whose pension papers are under process in the Ministry of Planning and Finance,
and payments for public service obligations amounting to US$10.0 million each year. Due to these reasons, CFM
has not been able to properly compensate its capital providers (through debt service or dividends) nor carry out
reinvestments. The effect has been a progressive decapitalization of the company, continuous implicit (non-cash)
Government subsidies and virtual absence of major reinvestment. While operations have overall shown positive
results, operating income has on the average declined during that period.
CFM Operating Results
(US$ million)
1994         1995         1996          1997
Revenues (+)                   75.9         95.0         93.4          99.3
Cost of Sales (-)              49.5         65.7         87.7          84.6
Operating Margin            2119.4        2155.7       2177.1        2180.9
Depreciation (-)              29.9         105.5         77.1          64.5
Operating Income               -3.5        -76.2        -71.4         -49.8
Working Ratio (%)               65            69           94           85
Project Impacts
2.   The implementation of the Project is expected to substantially improve the financial performnance of
Mozamnbique's Railways and Ports sector, and will have a major impact on the composition of CFM's annual
financial statements. The principal effects will be as follows:
* Most of CFM's core activities will be transferred to concessionaires over the next few years.
Consequently, CFM's own turnover will be substantially reduced and replaced by income from
concessions, which will be generated both through direct fees (fixed and variable) and through dividends.
CFM will continue its own operations for strategic and minor activities. Consequently, cost and revenues
of e.g., petroleum terminals or Pemba Port will be fully reflected in its financial statements.
* CFM will not bear any operating costs for concessioned assets, but will incur administrative expenses
related to overseeing the concessions, as well as general overhead costs. The rationalization of both staff
and non-core activities will lead to a substantial cost reduction overall.
Objectives and Principles of CFM's Financial Restructuring
3.   The principal financial objective of CFM's restructuring is to establish long-tern sustainability of the
company by reduction of its surplus staff costs, increase of revenues from concessioned operations, debt
restructuring, and creation of an investment reserve. This would halt the company's decapitalization, reduce or
eliminate the implicit Government subsidy, ensure adequate reinvestment and replacement of infrastructure, and
lay the basis for eventual appropriate remuneration of capital.



-45 -
4.   A rapid implementation of the restructuring program is the key to CFM's financial transformation. It would
- through the retrenchment component - result in a substantial reduction of annual staff costs and create
conducive conditions for long-term revenue stability and growth through the concession fees and dividends. The
longer implementation lasts and losses continue, the higher CFM's decapitalization and the implicit Government
subsidy reflected in its annual book losses.
5.   All of CFM' s capital has over time been provided by the Government (either directly or through various
donors). It is reflected in CFM's books as equity and long-term debt. Consequently, the Government could claim
a market-based interest and a reasonable return on equity. However, the financial position of CFM, even after
restructuring and concessioning, is unlikely to permit an adequate remuneration of all capital provided in the past.
Moreover, part of the assets financed from these resources have been destroyed or severely damaged during
Mozambique's civil war and have thus no revenue-earning potential. It is therefore necessary that CFM's debt be
completely restructured and dividends only be paid if and when CFM shows profits and has sufficient cash flow.
6.   Maintenance of CFM's Fixed Asset Value. Fixed asset depreciation and replacement will be governed by
the following principles:
Infrastructure - concessionaires: Concessionaires will maintain and replace infrastructure,
superstructure and rolling stock where applicable and will mobilize the required financing. However, as
the concessionaires are not expected to assume the responsibility for all infrastructure replacement,
GFM could face infrastructure replacement costs during the concessions in accordance with the
arrangements to be negotiated in the concession agreements.
Infrastructure - CFM: The responsibility to replace infrastructure after concessions have ended (likely
to include large items such as quay walls or rail infrastructure) remains with CFM. CFM's cash flow
resulting from concession revenues, i.e. from the fixed and variable fees and dividends paid by
concessionaires, could be an internal source of financing of these replacements.
Mobile equipment: Concessionaires will either purchase mobile equipment and depreciate it, or lease
from CFM. In the latter case, the replacement and depreciation costs of these assets are covered by
lease payments of concessionaires. Both income and expenditure by CFM on the mobile equipment
will be isolated from the general CFM accounts (through setting up of a dedicated sub-account or,
legislation permitting, a leasing vehicle).
7.   One option to ensure availability of resources for replacement of infrastructure by CFM is to create an
Infrastructure Reserve. It would be constituted from CFM's annual cash flows and establish a reserve for later
replacement investments. CFM's reinvestments are currently negligible and are expected to remain low during
the period of the first concessions, i.e., for about 15 years. On the other hand, CFM' s projected cash flows, after
completion of restructuring and retrenchment, and based on the value of its book depreciation, are estimated to
approach and exceed US$60.0 million annually. This could potentially mean an accumulation of a large cash
reserve over an extended period. The issue of the investment reserve will therefore be addressed through the
definition of principles for the financial flows between CFM and the Government (MPF) in the context of a new
performance contract. These principles will take into account: (i) CFM's obligations to replace both non-
concessioned and concessioned infrastructure - the latter based on the concession agreements; and (ii) CFM's
public service obligations, e.g. in passenger traffic or in non-viable assets. Furthermore, the performance contract
will address the question of any new development CFM initiates or carries out in the Railways and Ports sector
and its implications on the mobilization of financing.
Assumptions for Financial Projections
8    The financial projections are based on the financial statements of 1994 to 1997 as a starting point. Past
revenues and costs are to a large extent replaced by concession fees and dividends, as well as by administrative
and monitoring costs. The principal assumptions for the financial projections are as follows:



- 46-
General and Economic: (a) the financial projections cover a 20-year period, ending in the year 2018;
(b) all figures are expressed in US$ at constant 1998 prices; (c) current costs and benefits of operations
will grow by 4% p.a. until the different concessions are phased in; (d) non-core activities and other
activities, which will remain under the control of CFM are assumed to generate a stable flow of costs and
benefits (i.e., 0% growth); (e) concession revenues are projected to grow at 10%, approximately in line
with traffic and revenue increases of concessionaires; (f) for concessions completed before 201 8, it is
assumed that the second concession will generate fees comparable to the last year of the first concession,
but that the dividends from the second concession equals the first year of the first concession; and (g) the
retrenchment program is expected to start in 1999, to be implemented over a three-year period, and to cost
US$34.0 million.
Financial: (a) long-term debt will be fully transformed in equity and dividends to the Government will
depend on CFM's profitability and available cash flow; (b) the IDA Credit for CFM's restructuring
program is passed on to CFM on standard IDA terms; (c) temporary cash deficits are covered through
current account facilities for which CFM is expected to pay an 8% interest (inflation-free); (d) annual
depreciation for different assets is assumed to range between 15 and 50 years; and (e) tentative
assumptions have been made on the percentage of infrastructure that will be replaced by concessionaires
(based on indicative amounts from concession offers).
Implementation of Concessions:
CFM (S)                        :    1999
Port of Beira (CFM (C))              1998
Machipanda Line (CFM (C))           2001
CFM (N)                        :    2001
Infrastructure Reserve: (a) the reserve will start in 2001, i.e., at the end of the retrenchment process;
(b) CFM is assumed to start reinvestments (as an expense of the Fund) from 2002 onwards; from then on
the annual difference between depreciation and reinvestments is transferred to the Fund. (c) CFM is
expected to reach full annual reinvestment from 2010 onwards, which implies that no contributions to the
Fund take place after 2009; and (d) the positive balance of the Fund is expected to generate interest
income of 5% annually.
The assumptions for the infrastructure reserve and CFM's reinvestments are tentative as they will depend on (a)
CFM's infrastructure replacement obligations resulting from the concession agreements which are still to be
negotiated; and (b) the principles for the financial flows between CFM and the Government to be defined through
a new performance contract.
Financial Projections
9.   Financial projections were carried out (based on a model designed by CFM and consultants) under the
assumptions listed above. The base case demonstrates to which extent the main objective of CFM's financial
restructuring, namely financial sustainability, can be achieved. The calculations show an average annual deficit of
some US$3.0 million, which should be considered a vast improvement compared with CFM's past performance.
Moreover, while it would still imply a theoretical subsidy, it would be tolerable in view of the size of total
revenues (forecast to grow from about US$61.0 million in 1999 to US$127.0 million in 2018 ). However, this
deficit should foremost be seen as a benchmark for the minimum of additional annual savings required to
establish full sustainability and eventually pay remuneration on Government equity and/or service restructured
debt. Additional savings could be achieved through further efficiency improvement and cost reduction. The
principal results of the financial projections are summarized below.



-47-
CFM Key Financial Flows
(US$ million)
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2010    2018
Revenues (from Concession       57.4     61.3    41.4    51.5    55.0    87.2   105.0
Fees and Dividends) (+)
Operating Costs (Excluding      68.7    60.5    37.4    30.6    18.1         18.8    19.9
Depreciation) (-)
Operating Income Cash Flow     -11.4      0.8      3.9    20.9    36.8    68.4    85.1
Working Ratio (%)        120       99       90       59      33       22        19
10.  The use of available cash flow to constitute an infrastructure reserve would affect CFM's financial situation
differently depending on whether the Reserve is maintained inside CFM or deposited in and managed by a
separate fund. In the latter case, the tax implications would be quite different as the interest income of the fund
would be taxable before accumulation. If for reasons of fiscal policy the new performance contract with MPF
obliges CFM to transfer part of its cash flow to the Treasury, the accounting implications will have to be carefully
assessed.
11.  The principal financial objective of CFM's restructuring is to establish long-term sustainability of the
company by reduction of its surplus staff costs, increase of revenues from concessioned operations, debt
restructuring, and creation of an adequate investmnent reserve. This would halt the company's decapitalization,
reduce or eliminate the implicit Government subsidy, ensure adequate reinvestment and replacement of
infrastructure, and lay the basis for eventual appropriate remuneration of capital.
Sensitivity Analysis
12.  A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the effects of different assumptions for the pace of
concessioning, debt reduction, and depreciation on CFM's financial sustainability as measured by its average
annual deficit. The results are summarized in the table below.
Sensitivities
(US$ million)
No          Slow       Low Debt        Low
Privatization  Privatization    Reduction   Depreciation  Base Cost-'
CFM (S) Concessions           2018         2001          1999         1999         1999
Other Concessions             2018         2003         2001          2001         2001
Impl. Of Retrenchment         2018         2005         2002          2002         2002
Econ. Life of Quay Walls    50 years      50 years     50 years     200 years    50 years
Income from Property
Development                    0            2.0          2.0           5.0          5.0
Required Equity Return        0%            0%           0%            0%           0%
Debt Reduction                100%         100%          50%          100%         100%
Depreciation by CFM           100%         100%          90%           0%          90%
Average Annual Deficit        -51.4        -16.8        -11.8         13.8        -2.9-' 
* */This assumes that all assets, currently recorded in CFM's books, would continue to be needed, thus necessitating
depreciation for their replacement at some future date. In practice, however, the assets requirement is expected to reduce
substantially as a result of increased utilization of assets and disposal of surplus assets, enhanced life of infrastructure as
a result of improved maintenance, and maintenance of infrastructure to appropriate and not unnecessarily high standards.



-48-
13.  The following conclusions can be drawn from these sensitivities:
First column (no privatization): If CFM's restructuring program with concessioning is not
implemented, the annual deficit is increased 17-18 times.
* Second column (slow pace): A fast implementation of the restructuring process with concessioning
should be recommended, since postponing the introduction by five years leads to annual deficits of six
times the base case.
Third column (low debt reduction): If currently outstanding long-term debt is reduced by only 50%
instead of 100%, annual deficits rise four times.
Fourth column (low capital costs): If the annual depreciation is assumed to equal US$40.0 million
instead of US$60.0 million (e.g., due to increase in economic life of quay walls) CFM would generate
annual surplus of some US$14.0 million, which would permit dividend payments to the Government.
14.  The infrastructure replacement requirements for CFM's port-railway system in the financial projections are
based on the book values of CFM's assets which reflect full replacement costs adjusted for depreciation. For
reasons outlined above, the requirements and build-up of infrastructure replacement expenses facing CFM cannot
be projected with certainty at this stage. It is, therefore, equally difficult to predict the appropriate annual
contribution and target level of an infrastructure reserve fund. For this reason an analysis was carried out to
illustrate the cash flow effects of three different scenarios. While they follow the "base case" above, it was
assumed that CFM would not carry out any replacement investments during the period of the first concessions,
i.e., until 2015. In two scenarios it was assumed that the fund would be built up on an "annuity" basis. This
would imply slowly increasing payments by CFM which, together with compound interest, lead to equal
contributions. The objective would be to achieve specified target levels (US$200.0 and US$1.0 billion) at the end
of the first concessions in 2015. A third scenario was based on the possible need for CFM to replace some of the
concessioned infrastructure earlier and to be prepared for unforeseen requirements (force majeure), with
decreasing needs in the future. In this scenario, it was assumed that payments to the fund would be made on a
declining basis, starting with US$40.0 annually for a six-year period, and decreasing thereafter to stabilize at
US$20.0 million in year ten.
15.  The key results of the above analysis are summarized in the table for the following scenarios of
contributions to IRF:
Infrastructure Reserve Fund - All Scenarios From 2001 to 2015
(US$ million)
Scenario 1   Scenario 2    Scenario 3    Scenario 4
Increasing    Increasing
Contribution  Contribution  Declining      Scenario 4
Item                 Case 1        Case 2      Contribution   Base Case
IRF Target Size                    200          1,000          460            630
Cash Surplus After IRF Payments   1,004         204            744            615
Scenariol: Contribution to IRF increasing gradually from US$9.0 million/year in year I to US$18.0 million/year in year 15.
Scenario 2: Contribution to IRF increasing gradually from US$46.0 million/year in year I to US$91.0 million/year in year
15.
Scenario 3: Contribution to IRF commences with US$40.0 million/year for years I to 6, decreasing to US$20.0 million/year
from 7 to 11, and thus remaining at US$20.0 million from years 12-15.
Scenario 4: Contribution to IRF commences with US$7.0 million from year 2, increasing gradually to US$63.0 million/year
in year 10, and remaining at US$63.0 million/year until year 15.



-49-
Monte Carlo Simulations of Market Conditions
Average Annual Deficit
(US$ million)                               25
20
15
10
5
0
-8A4 -6.8 -5.3 -3.8 -2.2 -0.7 0.8 2.4 3.9 5.4 7.0 8.5-
Impact of Market Conditions
16. The model calculations are based on the assumption that all concession fees and dividends from
concessions are collected by CFM and that the assumed traffic and revenue growth materializes. Any reduction
in performance of the concessionaires will reduce the collected fees and dividends thus increasing the deficit of
CFM. To test the impact of market factors on CFM's financial position, a Monte Carlo simulation of 500 runs
was carried out using the base case. The outcome of this simulation suggests that market fluctuations are not
expected to lead to substantial modifications of the financial projections. The impact of the sensitivity scenarios
described above (i.e., pace of concessioning, debt reduction, and depreciation) is considerably more important.
Conclusions
17. Based on different financial scenarios, the main conditions for achieving CFM's sustainability are as
follows:
*Rapid implementation of the restructuring and retrenchment program.
*Restructuring of outstanding long-termn debt.
*Determnination of CFM's future infrastructure replacement obligations and establishment of an
infrastructure reserve to meet these.
*Definition of clear rules for financial flows between CFM and the Govemnment (MPF) through a new
performance contract.
*Continued identification and implementation of measures to increase efficiency and reduce costs in
CFM's new structure.



-50 -
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Year Beginning: 2000
Year Ending: 2004
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
I
Total Financing Required     36.0       24.0      18.0      18.0       24.0
IDA                       30.0      20.0       15.0      15.0      20.0
Govermnent                 6.0       4.0        3.0       3.0       4.0



-51 -
Annex 6: Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
Procurement - For procurement arrangements see Table A andfor Prior review thresholds see Table B.
The main features of the procurement arrangements are as follows (values within parentheses indicate the
approximate value of goods/works/services proposed to be obtained through the specified procurement
method and are inclusive of physical and price contingencies):
* Civil works would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (US$5.0 million), National
Competitive Bidding (US$4.0 million), and Direct Contracting (US$0.5 million).
Goods would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (US$1.0 million), National
Competitive Bidding (US$1.0 million), and Shopping (US$0.4 million).
* Consultants' services would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (US$10.0 million)
and Selection Based on Quality of Consultants (US$5.5 million).
Training and retraining of retrenched staff would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(US$3.0 million), Selection Based on Quality of Training Institutions (US$1.0 million), and Internal, i.e.,
within CFM's institutions (US$1.6 million).
US$87.0 million will be disbursed towards severance payments directly by CFM.
Disbursement
Table C shows the allocations of the proceeds of the credit. The proceeds of the IDA credit of US$100.0 million
will be disbursed over the five-year Project period, i.e., from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004. A period of
six months will be allowed after the closing date to request disbursements for expenditures incurred prior to the
closing date. The annual estimated disbursements are indicated in a table on the first page of this Appraisal
Document.
Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements for all expenditures will be against full documentation except for
items of expenditures under contracts and purchase orders for (a) civil works contracts costing less than the
equivalent of US$500,000; (b) goods contracts costing less than the equivalent of US$100,000; and (c) technical
assistance contracts with firms costing less than the equivalent of US$100,000 and technical assistance contracts
with individuals costing less than the equivalent of US$50,000, and all force account works, recurrent operational
costs, and training. Expenditures not requiring full documentation as a disbursement condition will be supported
by Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) with supporting documentation maintained by the Borrower and made
available for periodic review by IDA and/or its authorized representative.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods and services, the Government will
open one Special Account in a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. This account
would be operated by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (GAPROMAR section). The authorized
allocation of the Special Account for GAPROMAR would be US$2.0 million covering an estimated six months of
eligible expenditures to be financed by IDA. Upon credit effectiveness, a sum of US$1.0 million will be
deposited by IDA into the GAPROMAR Special Account. Further deposits by IDA into this account may be
requested as needed. GAPROMAR will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures
should be paid through the Special Account.
Outline of Disbursement Procedures for Severance Payments. The procedures would entail the following key
steps:



- 52-
(a) Once staff are declared surplus, the CFM will complete the early retirement formalities and compute
the statutory and the negotiated severance payments for each staff.
(b) The retirement papers would then be sent to the Administrative Court for endorsement.
(c) CFM would then prepare invoices for groups of staff providing computation details for each
individual staff included in the invoice with regard to the statutory (IDA share) as well as the
negotiated severance payments.
(d) These invoices would be audited by an independent auditor. This audit would certify that (i) a
computation of severance payment is in accordance with the Govemment approved staff
rationalization plan; (ii) the corresponding share of GOM for the statutory severance payment has
been deposited in the name of CFM in an account established for this purpose; (iii) the invoice for
the negotiated severance payment is submitted simultaneously with the one for statutory severance
payment (IDA share).
(e) CFM would forward the audited invoices along with the audit report attaching the relevant
documentation to IDA disbursement unit.
(f) IDA will then transfer the funds to a dedicated account opened and maintained by CFM for this
purpose.
(g) CFM will make the severance payments to the staff in accordance with the invoices.
(h) In case the staff have entered into an agreement with CFM to receive annuitized payments for the
statutory part of the severance payments, then the staff would authorize CFM to transfer the
corresponding amount to an investment account.
Audit. The Project accounts, SOEs and the Special Account will be audited each year by an independent auditing
firm under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. In addition to the annual financial statements conforming to
International Standards on Auditing (IFAC Standards), the audit report will include comments on the accuracy
and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon
as a basis for credit disbursements. Audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the
end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements
CFM
A Project Accounts Section of CFM (PAS-CFM) will be established along with a financial management system
and would be managed by a Financial Manager supported by qualified and experienced accounting/computing
staff. PAS-CFM will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the
CFM component of the Project will be acceptable to the World Bank, Government and CFM's Board of
Directors. A Project Management Report (PMR)-based system of disbursements would be introduced within
about 18 months of credit effectiveness. Until then, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World
Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e., Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment
(if appropriate).
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), proposed to be adopted by PAS-CFM, will enable it to move away
from time-consuming voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Project's
Special Account, based on the PMR. LACI would integrate project accounting, procurement, contract
management, disbursement and audit with physical progress through a new Project Management Report (PMR).
For PAS-CFM to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, it's financial management system will be based on the
Financial Management Action Plan, with the following key features:
(a) PAS-CFM would be managed by a competent financial manager supported by appropriately qualified
staff with oversight provided by a financial management committee.
(b) An internal controls/financial procedures manual would be prepared describing detailed internal control
procedures.
(c) Internal auditing will be undertaken on a regular basis.



- 53 -
(d) The accounting system would be based on a sound information technology.
(e) The financial manager, in consultation with the financial management committee, would prepare the
project's monthly/quarterly/annual cash flow forecast.
(f) The project funds will be accounted for by PAS-CFM a cash basis.
(g) The World Bank procurement procedures should be observed as outlined in guidelines: procurement
under IDA credits and guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the World
Bank as executing agency.
(h) At head office, PAS-CFM will maintain three bank accounts as follows: (i) a dedicated account in
Meticais for Govermment's contribution for severance payments; (ii) a dedicated account in US
Dollars/Meticais for IDA's share of severance payments; and (iii) IDA loan account (Washington) in US
Dollars/ Meticais/SDR which will show cost of transfers to the dedicated account, cost of direct payment
to suppliers, and opening and closing balances.
(i) Until PAS-CFM is ready for PMR-based disbursements, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in
the world bank's disbursement handbook, will be followed i.e., direct payment, reimbursement and
special commitment (if any).
(j) Detailed intemal control procedures over financial management issues relating to staff rationalization will
be documented in the financial procedures manual by the extemal (systems) consultants.
(k) A fixed assets register will be prepared, regularly updated and periodically checked.
(1) A procurement management report will be presented quarterly by the procurement officer to the financial
management committee.
(m) The Financial Manager will be responsible for preparing a monthly status of funds report for the financial
management committee and quarterly/annual financial statements, dedicated account
statement/reconciliation, and SOE withdrawal schedule (if appropriate); the board of CFM, in
consultation with the World Bank will appoint independent auditors in compliance with the IDA credit
agreement.
GAPROMAR (GAP), MTC
The strengthening and enhancing of the financial management system of the Project Accounts Section of
GAPROMAR (PAS-GAP) along with the appointment of a Project Accountant will facilitate the introduction of a
PMR-based system of disbursements within about 18 months of credit effectiveness. Until then, existing
disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e., Direct
Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment (if appropriate).
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), proposed to be adopted by PAS-GAP, will enable it to move away
from time-consuming voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Project's
Special Account, based on the PMR. LACI would integrate project accounting, procurement, contract
management, disbursement and audit with physical progress through a new Project Management Report (PMR),
which would include Project Financial Statements, Output Monitoring Report, and Procurement management
Report.
For PAS-GAP to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its financial management system will be based on the
Financial Management Action Plan, with the following key features:
(a) PAS-GAP would be managed by the Director of GAPROMAR assisted by a competent Project
Accountant with oversight provided by a financial management committee.
(b) An internal controls/financial procedures manual would be prepared describing detailed internal control
procedures.
(c) Internal auditing will be undertaken on a regular basis.
(d) The accounting system will be based on a sound information technology.
(e) The Project Accountant, in consultation with the financial management committee, will prepare the
project's monthly/quarterly/annual cash flow forecast.
(f) The project funds will be accounted for by PAS-GAP on a cash basis.



-54-
(g) The World Bank procurement procedures should be observed as outlined in guidelines: procurement
under IDA credits and guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the World
Bank as executing agency.
(h) PAS-GAP will maintain four bank accounts as follows: (i) a Current Account (Part 1 Account) in
Meticais to which draw-downs from the Special Account will be credited for project financing and
administrative expenses; (ii) a Current Project Account in Meticais (Part 2 Account) to which
Counterpart Funding by GOM will be deposited: (iii) Special Account in US Dollars/Meticais which
will show Dollars/Meticais transfer to Part I Current Account, Dollars/Meticais cost of direct payments
to suppliers, Dollar advances (Meticais equivalent cost) from the IDA loan account, and opening and
closing balances; and (iv) IDA loan account (Washington) in US Dollars/ Meticais/SDR which will
show cost of transfers to Special Account, cost of direct payment to suppliers, and opening and closing
balances.
(i) Until PAS-GAP is ready for PMR-based disbursements, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined
in the world bank's disbursement handbook, will be followed i.e., direct payment, reimbursement and
special commitment (if any).
(j) A fixed assets register will be prepared, regularly updated and periodically checked.
(k) A procurement management report will be presented quarterly by the procurement officer to zhe
financial management committee. and
(I) the Project Accountant will be responsible for preparing a monthly status of funds report for the
financial management committee and quarterly/annual financial statements, special account
statement/reconciliation, and SOE withdrawal schedule (if appropriate); the Financial Management
Committee, in consultation with the World Bank will appoint independent auditors in compliance with
the IDA credit agreement.



- 55 -
Annex 6: Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
International               National
Competitive               Competitive
Expenditure Category                 Bidding                    Bidding              Other   |   Total
1. Civil Works                               5.0                       4.0                 0.51          9.5
(5.0)                     (4.0)               (0.5)         (9.5)
2. Goods                                     1.0                        1.0                0.44          2.4
(1.0)                     (1.0)               (0.4)         (2.4)
3. Consultancy Services                                                                    14.55         14.5
(14.5)       (14.5)
4. Training                                                                                5.66          5.6
(5.6)        (5.6)
4. Severance Payments                                                                      87.0          87.0
(67.0)       (67.0)
5. PPF Refinancing                                                                          1.0          1.0
__________________  _ _ _ _ _ __________________  _____________________ _ _(1.0)           (1.0)
Total                          6.0                       5.0                 109.0        120.0
_________ _  (6.0)                   (5.0)              (89.0)        (100.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to befinanced by the IDA credit.
3Includes Direct contracting
4Includes intemational and local shopping
5 Includes consultancy services obtained through QCBS (10.0), CQ (4.5)
6 Includes selection of training institutions through QCBS (3.0), CQ (1.0), and Internal (1.6)



-56-
Annex 6: Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value       Procurement        Contracts Subjeci to
Category            (Threshold)            Method              Prior Review
1. Works                    > US$500,000             ICB                 All
< US$500,000            NCB                  All
2. Goods                     >$ 100,000             ICB                  All
> US$30,000            NCB                  All
< US$30,000            Shopping
3. Consultants' Services (  >US$100,000          QCBS (Firn)             All
>US$50,000           CQ (Firm)              All
>US$50,000           Individual             All
< US$50,000          Individual
(*) Terms of reference for all consultant contracts and single appointments, are subject to prior review.
ICB          International Competitive Bidding;
NCB    :    National Competitive Bidding;
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection; and
CQ           Selection based on Consultants' Qualification.



-57-
Annex 6: Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Disbursement Arrangement
(US$ Million)
Item No.   Expenditure Category     Amount                Financing Percentage
1.  Civil Works                     8.2    100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures   l
2.  Goods                           2.3    100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures (*)
3.  Consultant Services            13.8    100% of foreign and local expenditures
4.   Training                       5.4    . 100% of foreign and local expenditures
5.  Staff redundancy payments      64.0    1 00% of local expenditures
6.  PPF Refinancing                 1.0    100% of expenditure
7.  Unallocated                     5.3
Total                         1000             :        :   - -
(  No local expenditures in these categories are anticipated. However, if a local expenditure incurred the
above articulated rule applies.



- 58-
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned
Project Schedule              (At final PCD stage)       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                          22 months
First Bank mission (identification)                                 April 1997
Appraisal mission departure                   January 1999        February 7, 1999
Negotiations                                  April 12, 1999       April 26, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness              December 31, 1999
Prepared by: Yash P. Kedia
Preparation assistance: PPF, Netherlands Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Kedia, Yash P.                           Team Leader/Principal Railway Engineer
Uprety. Kishor                           Sr. Counsel
Sugar, Marcos                            Sr. Disbursement Officer
Von Klaudy, Stephan                      Principal Financial Specialist
Geraldes, Pedro                          Principal Transport Economist
Kikeri, Sunita                           Pr. Private Sector Development Specialist
Thompson, Louis                          Railways Adviser
Karlsson, Sture                          Sr. Port Engineer
De Naurois, Philippe                     Sr. Financial Analyst
Thomas, Simon                            Sr. Transport Economist
Sarno, Francesco                        Principal Procurement Specialist
Fisiy, Cyprian                           Sr. Social Scientist
Monowski, Elizabeth                      Sr. Environment Specialist
Kudat, Ayse                              Lead Specialist
Levy, Brian                              Sector Manager
Hegarty, Anthony                         Sr. Financial Management
Fye, Serigne Omar                        Environment Specialist
Lundin, Carl                             Environment Specialist
Luchmun, Josiane                         Team Assistant



- 59 -
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File(*)
C. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower Implementation plan, including Procurement and Plan, dated March 1999.
Procedures manual and Reporting Schema, dated March 1999.
C. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires:
April, 1997:          Identification
July, 1997:           Preparation
October 1997:         Preparation
June, 1998:           Preparation
October, 1998:        Pre-appraisal
February 1999:        Appraisal
C. Other
PPFAdvance:
Phase I (February 13, 1998).
Phase II (January 1999).
Manpower Retrenchment Study, Fernave, July 1998.
Creation of Staff Rationalization Fund and Staff Pension Fund, BPI Pens6es, June 8, 1998.
Design of CFM Headquarters Restructuring, Gestra, June 30, 1998.
Enviromnental Audit & Management Plan, Impacto, September 7, 1998.
Environmental Audit & Management Plan, Tertiary Ports, Impacto, February 1999.
Accounting Assistance & Audit CFM 1997 Accounts, Ernst & Young, September 30, 1998.
Economic & Funds Flow Analysis Phasel, NEI, October 30, 1998.
Economic & Funds Flow Analysis Phase 2, NEI, February 1999.
Modified Economic and Funds Flow Analysis and Sensitivity Analysis, June 24, 1999.
Social Impact Assessment, Austral, April 1999.
Key Items of Correspondence (various).
(*) Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 08/16/99
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
As of 12-Jul-999
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 20
Active Projects
MZ-PE-1767      1999   GOV                              EMRO                                   150.00        0.00        0.00              0.00        0.00        0.00
MZ-PE-1786      1999   GOVT. OF MOZAMBIQUE              GEN.EDUC.SEC.EXP.PRO                     0.00       71.00        0.00             68.38        1.38        0.00
MZ-PE-1799      1999   REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE           AGRIC SECTOR PEP                         0.00       30.00        0.00             29.04        2.01        0.00
MZ-PE-52240    1999   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE          NATIONAL WATER II                        0.00       75.00        0.00             74.14        0.00        0.00
MZ-PE-39015    1998   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE          NATIONAL WATER I                         0.00       36.00        0.00             32.80        2.81        0.00                   I
MZ-PE-1792      1996   GOVT                             HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                      0.00       98.70        0.00             72.06       55.30        0.00
MZ-PE-1780      1994   GOVT                             GAS ENGINEERING(ENGY                     0.00       30.00        0.00              9.73        9.33        0.00
MZ-PE-1804      1994   GOVERNMENT                       2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                      0.00      188.00        0.00             77.74       54.53        0.00
MZ-PE-1811      1994   GOM                              FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC                     0.00        9.00        0.00              3.79        3.54        0.00
MZ-PE-1796      1993   GOVERNMENT                       RURAL REHABILITATION                     0.00       20.00        0.00              4.23        4.09        0.00
MZ-PE-1797      1993   GOM                              CAPACITY BUILDING(HU                     0.00       48.60        0.00             17.31       19.02        0.00
MZ-PE-1810      1993   GOM                              LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC                     0.00       15.50        2.93                .94       3.91        1.23
MZ-PE-1781      1992   GOVT.                            AGR.SER. REHAB.                          0.00       35.00       12.30              8.54       18.01        1.95
MZ-PE-1784      1990   GOVT                             INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRIS                     0.00       50.10        0.00              9.75        4.21        4.07
Total                                                                                          150.00      706.90       15.23            408.45      178.14        7.25
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                423.40            1,098.81            1,522.21
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                7.96                7.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                841.67            1,066.36            1,908.03
Amount sold                                       0.00               0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              408.45               23.53              431.98
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                              Page 1



- 61 -
Annex 10
Railways and Ports Restructuring Project
Mozambique at a glance                                                                10198
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Mozambkus    Africa  Income         Developmentdiamond
1997
Pooulation. mid-veer (mflimonsl                     18.5       614     2.048                LIfe expectancy
GNP oer caota lAtas nteff7t USS1                      90       500      350
GNP (AU"s method. USS billions)                      1.7       309      722
Averse, annual arowth. 1991.97
Pooulbfon A%6                                        4.2       2.7       2.1     G
Laboreforce                      al                  3.3       26        2.3     GNP                             Gross
per             971primary
Most recent eelatbbt v    analrbb. t99i -M                                       capia                        nrollment
Povertv 1% of oruhaon below nations o    Ov lne)
Urban owlatlon 1% of totlDoculaion)                  36         32       28
Life exoectancv at birth (veanal                      45        52       59
Infant mortalitv [Der 1.000 live brts)               120        90       78
Child malnutron % otf childrer urnder 5)             47          .       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of oDofuetiont                32        44       71
Illiteracv /% of ooouladwn aae 15+                   60         43       47
Gross oitrnarv enrollment f% ofscho1Iaw0 ooulaflon1   OD        75       91                Mozambique
Mate                                                70        82      100                  Low-income group
Female                                              50        67       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1916      1997
Economic ratioe
GOP (US$ billions)                           ..      4.2       2.3       2,8
Gross domestic wvestrnienlGDP                 ..     7.0      30.1      29.5
Exoorts ofooods and servicesGDP               ..     3.5      20.8      18.2                    Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    -     -3.5      9S4       13.6
Gross national savinos/GDP                    ..    -3.9       8.0      13.0
Current account bamncelGDP                   ..   -14.6       -27.9    -22.3     Doe stic
Intrest DavmenWGDP 1/                        ..      0.7       2.6       2.2     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GOP I1                            ..    78.1      408.9    270.2       avIngs                     ne n
Total debt serviWeexoortS 11                  .    40.8       47.4      23.8
Present value of debGDP 1f                    .        ..     5S.5    118.5
Present value of deWexorts 1/                               1.345.8    708.5
Indebtedness
197644  1967.97     1998      1997   199642
nw,owe annual oamwth-
GDP                                -5.8     4.1      7.1      12.4       9.6                  Mozambique
GNP oer caoita                    -8.9      09       6.1      10.2       6.8                  Low-income group
Exdorts of ooods and services     -16.2    t7.3    18.7        2.7      16.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aaricutture                                         41.1      31.5      31.0
Industrv                                     ..    15.0       23.3      22.9    20
Manufacturino                               ..      ..        8.0      8.5    10;/
Services                                     ..    43.9       45.2      46.1      o-
Private consumotion                           ..    88.0      81.6      76.0   .10
General oovemment consumotion                 ..    15.5       8.9      10.4              -    GDI         GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                 ..    14.0      41.5      34.1
(avereae annual orowth)                 197646  1987-97       1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aaricunure                                   ..      0.6       8.1              60
Industrv                                     ..      0.1      12.8        ..   40
Manufacturino                               ..       ..                       20
Service,s                                    .,      9.3       5.3        ..t20o
Private consumDtion                         -8.4     0.8       8.2       6.0           92   93         9      96   97
General oovemment consumotion               -4.9    -5.0       2.2      23.6
Gross domestic investment                   -1.6     7.9       -7.1     13.9     0
Imoorts of ooods and services               -7.3     1.1       2.2      .0.9                 Exports   -'Imports
Gross national oroduct                     -6.5      4.1       9.8      13.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its Income-orouo averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incornolete.



- 62-
Mozambiaz,
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1906       1996     1907      Inflation (%)
Domesic prkes                                                                     o
(% change)
Consumer prices                                -    40.5        44.6      6.4    60
Implicit GDP deflator                                12.7       40.9      8.8     w
Government flnance                                                                20
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                                0o                                    V
Curren revenue                                       12.9       13.4     14.4             92   93   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                               -11.8       1.5      1.0                   GDP defator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -17.2     -12.7    -14.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                    79       226       234    1, T
Cashew                                      35       17         45       31
Prawn                                        12      38         80       77       750                            *
Manufactures                                                     7        9             *00
Total imports (cif)                            ..    500        783       775
Food                                                            29       34       25                  *
Fuelandenergy                                                   78       78
Capitalgoods                                  ,                170      153        o
P1  92  93
ExDort crice index (1995=100)                          97        99       100
Imoort odce index 1995=100)                            82       100        99                iExports     IKports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                              118        100      101
EALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1007     Currant account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and ervices                          148       479       499
Imports of goods and services                         593                 93       10
Resource balance                                     -445       -476     -438
-201
Net income                                           -178       -166     -177
Net current transfers                                  a0         0         0                 l
Current account balance                              -622       -642     -615     40
Financing items (net)                                 646       801       751      5
Changes in net reserves                               -24       -159     -136    _so
Memo:
Reserves indudino aold (USS millions)                  66       384       560
Conversion rate (DEC. locaJVSS)              30.2    40,4   11.293.8  11 543.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    19m        1906     1997
(USS millions)                                                                     ComposiUon of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed I/             3,319      9,406    7,439
IBRD                                                  0         0         0                     G: 118
IDA                                                  30      1,076    1,160                               B 1,160
Total debt service 1/                                  81       227       122         F: 1,2                       22
IBRD                                                  0         0         0                       K            C: _
IDA                         ''                        1         7         9
Composition of net resource flows                                                           LD 924
Official grants                                     213       283       355
Officialcreditors 2/                                325       182       176
Private creditors                                    48        76        47
Foreign direct investment                             2        73        64
Portfolio equity                                      0         0                              E: 3,093
World Bank program
Commitments                                           0         0       100        BRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                        23       221       148     6-IDA    D - Other multlateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                                  1         1         2       - IMF                      G - Short-tern1
Net flows                                            22       220       146
Interest payments                                     0         7         8
Net transfers                                        22       214       138
Development Economics                                                                                               10/1198
1/ After Nacles ferms reschedulina.



- 63-
Annex 11
Mozambique: Railways and Ports Restructuring Project
Letter of Development Policy for the Transport Sector
RWOBLICA DE KOANIQU
XINISTtIO UDO PLNO B FINMI9S
GADIT1E DO HINI$TRO
N    IGMIMPF/I 999
MOputo0b-04- 1999
Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz
Country Director for Mozambique
Africa Region
World Bank
Washington D.C., USA
Subject: Letter of Development Policy for the Transport
Sector
Dear Ms. Pomerantz,
In April 1996, the Government of Mozambique (GOM) approved a
new transport policy which is annexed to this letter and which is
presently being implemented by the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC).
This new policy recognizes the importance and need for the
participation of private capital in the creation and rehabilitation of
infrastructures; in the management, by contract or concession (partial
or total) of the ports, railways and airports; and in the companies
which deal with air and sea navigation.



- 04 -
The Government of Mozambique retains the role of facilitator,
responsible for defining policies and creating an environment
conduicive to attract investment. The GOM is also responsible for its
certain key activities; namely the establishment of regulations and the
licensing of transport activities as well as supervision and control of
all pertinent aspects of the transport sector.
Regarding the railways, ports and air transport sub-sector, the new
policy aims to stimulate private participation in the creation of new
infrastructures, to develop services through management contract, total
or partial concessions, and joint venture parMerships with the state
operators (CFM, ADM etc.).
Over the last two years CFM company, responsible for ports and
railways has gone along way to implement the new policy. Initially,
concessions to the private operators were essentially signed to operate
3N6cializx  portS torminalg (sugar terminal, enal h'jrminal etc.). The
Government of Mozambique has now decided to increase substantially
the role of the private sector by concessioning not only the
management of all ports activities but also the management of railway
lines and railways yards and workshops. Regarding the railway lines
and port facilities which have been or are in the process of being
concessioned, CFM has also been asked to discharge, on behalf of the
State, the role of conceding authority with special emphasis on the
supervision of the concession contracts and on the formulation and
enforc.ement of technical regulation aspects. Concerning other
infrastructure facilities, actively CFM will continue to seek forms of
private/public partnership. While this process is ongoing, CFM will
rationalize its remaining operations following sound business practices
and in accordance with relevant provisions to be incorporated in its
performance contract with the Government.
Furthermore, CFM would be restructured with a view to clearly
unbundle its minority shareholding in the concession companies, and
other residual asset ownership and management functions, under a
new 4'holding company'. The legal framework for the creation of this
company, its articles of incorporation, capital subscription
requirements, and internal organization will be recommended by a
study, which is in the process of being commissioned.



- 65 -
Only these objectives will be achieved through a rationalization of the
staff presently employed by CFM. CFM will therefore implement a
comprehensive retrenchment program to adjust the number of
personnel to the precise needs of an efficient management system.
Maritime transport will be used to carry large cargoes along the coast.
Private operators that will be organized according to the existing
Mozanibican legislation will provide services. The Government will
promote the rehabilitation of small ports (tertiary) and the
concessioning of their management to third parties (preferably
economic agents who use these ports). The MTC has already signed
concession agreement for the management of three tertiary ports and
it plans to get more concession contracts signed next years.
The Government will also promote the use of air transport services of
people and goods on regular scheduled services, by restructuring the
sector.
All the issues relevant to air safety will be entrusted to a financially
autonomous institute (Instituto Nacional de Aviaqao Civil, INAC). The
policy and the long-term st:rategy development program will be under
responsibility of the National Directorate for Civil Aviation (DNAC).
The private sector could increase its participation in the nuagement
of airports, with or without the participation of ADM. The GOM will,
in each circumstance, select the best solution for the country.
A new regulation for commercial air services, liberalizing national air
transport have been approved recently and it is being implemnented.
The GOM will increase the participation of the pri-vate sector in
LAM.
This new transport policy has substantially modified the role and
responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport and Communications
which is being restructured and strengthened. The MTC, with a small,
highly trained staff, will be responsible for designing new transport
policies as well as for monitoring the efficiency of the sector and the
implementation of these policies by specialized institutes and by
private operators.



-66-
The implementation of the new transport policy and the rapidly
increasing number ot concessionaires of infrastructures of transport
(ports, railways, airports etc.), has raised the issues of the economic
regulations of these concessions. The MTC, will play, for the time
being, the role of regulator through the National Directorates, except
for INAV and INCM. However, the Government policy is to
establish a most efficient system of economic regulation to protect the
interests of all the stakeholders, public and private involved in the
sector. The MTC will conduct a comprehensive study of the various
options, and, if necessary, will review its structure according with
study recommendations.
The GOM has embarked into comprehensive policies to protect its
environment. The MTC has embarked in the preparation of
environmental audits and management plan to design specific
orient2tion for future environmental impact assessment that will take
place whenever necessary in compliance with Mo7ambican legislation
and regulations.
These environmental assessments will cover the direct and indirect
impact from proposed activities to bring the ports, the railway lines
VA U' "Pus Ltu tv pt.jlo oart.&nl #o p..'ets              ri-
take over the operation.
The COM will ensure that the private concessionaire of transport
services establish and implement company policy with regard to
compliance with environmental legislation and regulations,
environmental management and protection of workers health and
safety
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you in advance for your
kind cooperation in this matter,
Best regards,
Yours Sincerely,
Ministe aand Fian e



- 67-
Annex 12
Social Impact Analysis of the Proposed Earlier Retirement and Retrenchment of the CFM Staff
Introduction
1.   The staff rationalization program was designed by CFM with the assistance of external consultants and
after consulting staff and their union representatives. Even so, with a view to better understand the staff
perceptions pertaining to the upcoming staff retrenchment, their fears and concerns, and the type of assistance
that, in their view, could soften the economic and even more traumatic social consequences of retrenchment, a
comprehensive and wide-ranging staff survey was undertaken by a different external consultant. This survey,
undertaken during the months of October and November 1998, involved a large representative sample of CFM
workers (n=3020) in the 4 Executive Directorates (South, Center, North and Zambezia) and was probably one of
the most comprehensive socio-economic surveys undertaken in Mozambique. The results of the survey, while
confirming several key assumptions/perceptions, also produced some surprises. The main assumptions to be
confirmed were that: (a) a sizeable proportion of CFM staff are unlikely to be psychologically prepared to handle
the impact of early retirementlretrenchment; (b) there are distinctive differences between staff perception in each
of the 4 principal zones - the South, Center, North and Zambezia; and (c) the social consequences of retrenchment
could in most cases be as traumatic as the economic ones, sometimes even more. The surprise finding was that a
large proportion (42%) of the staff indicated during the survey that they would prefer to be retired/retrenched than
to maintain their current jobs.
2.   The survey results would be used by CFM to: (a) refine the staff retraining and redeployment program that
has already been outlined; and (b) build into the program additional measures for assisting staff in appropriately
managing the social consequences of retrenchment. The proposed extended program would henceforth be referred
to as the staff Redeployment and Social Adjustment Program or SRSAP.
3    Subsequent sections deal with: (a) the social costs and benefits of retrenchment; (b) a socio-economic
profile of the CFM staff; (c) reactions to the prospect of imminent retirementlretrenchment; (d) regional
differences and their policy implications; and (e) recommendations.
The Social Costs And Benefits Of Retrenchment
4.   It is usually assumed that the unexpected loss of ajob carries with it both economic and social
repercussions. The retrenchment process is often held in fear by those who feel they might be victims of the
process. However, it is significant in the design of SRSAP to recognize that a large proportion (42%) of the
workers indicated during the survey that they would prefer to be retired/retrenched than to maintain their current
jobs In the Center and North, more than half the workers would prefer early retirement/retrenchment. Possible
explanations underlying this preference were identified as: (a) a strong desire on the part of older Mozambican
men to return to their machambas (a rural holding), often located in the zone of their ancestors; (b) recognition by
many workers that, with lump sum indemnity payments, a variety of interesting income-generating activities
could be made possible through a modest capital investment; and (c) the frustration felt by many workers in going
daily to a job where their contribution is negligible.
5.   The diagram below and Table following the diagram illustrate the likely scenarios for the majority of
retrenched workers. One third of the workers said that they would change residence if retrenched. In the Centre
the percentage is almost half while in the South only about a fifth. Those moving are likely to establish their
machambas in rural areas. Once there they would engage in agriculture and/or non-farm activities to supplement
their severance pay or pensions. Those who elect to stay where they are will often stay in urban environments and
will generally have three choices: find another job, take on a self-employed activity or enter into retirement.
There are, of course, other permutations but these are likely to be the main routes chosen. Each course will have



- 68 -
both shocks and benefits confronting the retrenched worker. A good SRSAP would minimize the shocks and
capitalize on the benefits.
6.   Some of the most common types of shocks and benefits are reviewed in subsequent paragraphs in the
context of a profile of who the early retirees/retrenches are likely to be, what their desires are, and the regional
variations that are likely to influence these shocks and benefits. To fine tune and highlight some of the social
issues raised in the general survey, focus group discussions were conducted after the general survey.
7.   For the group changing residence, a whole series of shocks are likely to be encountered not unlike the
trauma associated with a change of residence in any society. Most workers have lived in their current residence
for many years, though it appears from focus group discussions that many CFM workers are accustomed to
moving from one place of work to another. Moving from a residence of many years will result in the loss of
friends, contacts with working colleagues, etc. It also means that an urban lifestyle enjoyed by the worker's
family - perhaps the only lifestyle to which they are accustomed - will be relinquished. Children may be
withdrawn from a school system usually not available in remote rural areas. On the other hand, such a move may
also have significant benefits such as a reduction in the cost of living, income supplementation from agricultural
produce, a safer and perhaps more wholesome environment for children, etc. It should be added, that given the
age of many of the likely retrenched workers, many, if not most, will not have dependent children that would be
affected by such dislocation.
8.   For the majority that opt to stay, another set of shocks may await them. Although still living among friends
and ex-working colleagues, the loss of their job could be seen as an ignominious stigma associated with failure in
the eyes of their community. A mass retrenchment affecting many members of the community would be seen as
less traumatic through the comfort of knowing that others in the community share the same plight. Other shocks
would include the difficulty of finding alternative sources of income, given age and lack of appropriate skills,
pressure to maintain high cost urban lifestyles, etc.



D . islocation                                             * Acquisition of suitable
5   AL  Leaving work                      AgSc<    land
colleagues              Agriculture                        Inexperience
)    SHOCKS    c> . Leaving community                                V        . Initial capital costs
and friends
Self-                        a Limited market
V  Lower cost of                                       Shortage/absence of
Leave-                           living O  . Lowercostofemployed                      raw materials/spares
Current      t  BENEFITS   . Preferred place          (non form)                    * Start-up costs
I Residence    <       ~    ,      to be/true home                                   . Lack of business
.G6uaranteed                                        experience
I    I                 ~~~~~~Income/Indemnid                                                      _ 
RETRENCHMENT                     s g  ty payment                    Self-                   High Start-up costs
5elf -         0~~ High Level of
I  Psychological        Employed                  Competition
SOCIiAL      aspects of            Activity ,_
Stay in      gz   SSIOCI(S   ^ . Inability to find            Wage               . Inappropriate skills
Current   \t             <           alternative           Employment            * Lack of Information
Residence               .              employment                 1/
. g * N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
* Alternative income
(pension/indemnity)           Retirement               psychologically
E BE    IS  . Pursuit of preferred activity   I                            bu no
Pension/Indemn
ity not



- 70-
Table. Characteristics of Main Retrenched Group Types and Likely Shocks/Alleviating Circumstances to be Encountered
Alleviating Circumstances
Principal Characteristics                                              (excluding retrenchment            Iypical Wants
(By Group)                Likely "Shocks" to be Encountered             benefits)                (in descending order)
Group I                          -loss ofjob held for virtually all of   -Will still be in company of    -assistance in finding new job
working life                           friends                      -support in starting new activity
Urban based with machamba, will   -loss of fringe (social) benefits      -Continue with old social    -basic business training
continue to live in current      -loss of protective environment of CFM  groups                       -support for agriculture activities
residence; about half prefer to be    -area of relatively slow economic growth;   -Access to urban facilities
retrenched; greatest preference  limited job opportunities               e.g. education/health
given to take up farming if      -too old and not appropriately skilled for    -Access to nearby land to
retrenched                       few job opportunities available         supply urban food and/or
cash requirements
(typical of Northern Region)
Group 2
Currently urban based without    -loss of friends and social groups (sports,   -lower cost            -support for agriculture activities
nearby machamba, intending to    church, etc)                            of living                    -assistance in finding new job
move back to zone of origin to start  -difficulties in collecting pension  -machamba will generate    - bank loan
machamba; majority prefer to be  payments or severance pay if not done in   food/income
retrenched; greatest preference to    lump sum                            -safer and more
take up farming if retrenched     -disruption of children attending school  "wholesome" way of life
-psychological disruption of moving from   -rural area often considered
(typical of about half the workers in  urban to rural, particularly for younger  to be true home (preferred
Central Region and significant   members                                 place of residence)
minorityfrom other regions)      -disruptions related to dislocation: selling
current house, building new house,
transporting assets
-establishing new friends and social
networks
-difficulties in establishing non-
agricultural activities in terms of inputs as
well as demand
Group 3
Urban based without machambas,   -loss of job held for virtually all of   -will still be in company of    -basic business training
prior generations of wage        working life                            friends                      -technical training in current
employees, many with CFM, no     -loss of fringe (social) benefits       -continue with old social    profession
intention to move from current   - loss of protective environment of CFM  groups                      -support in finding new job
residence, no machamba, younger                                           - continue to enjoy urban
than other CFM retrenched; large                                          facilities/services
majority prefer NOT to be                                                 -located in zone of rapid
retrenched; greatest preference to                                       economic growth and
find new employment if retrenched                                         employment opportunities
(typical of Southern Region)



- 71 -
3. A Socio-Economic Profile Of The Retrenched Workers
10. Regional distribution of the possible early retirees/retrenches. Figure 1 shows that: (a)
the total number of CFM's full-time employees, as obtained in a study conducted by CFM in
1998, is about 19,200: (b) the percentages employed in the South, Center, North, and Zambezia
regions is 41, 35, 18, and 4 respectively while 2% is employed in the Headquarters; (c) less than
4% of the staff are female. Almost two-thirds (63%) of the full-time workers, i.e., about 12,200,
are considered to be redundant and proposed to be retired early or retrenched. See Fig. 6 for the
regional distribution of the projected retrenchment numbers.
Fig. 1 Full Time Employees by Executive Directorate
100%            694         _                  .   
ZAMBEZIA
80%           3456                                        NORTH
60%  -
CENTRAL
40%  -
SOUTH
20%  -      78
0%                                                                    I
11. Age profile. Figure 2 shows that the full-time workers are generally old, with almost half
(46%) being 45 years or older.
FIG. 2 AGE DISTRIBUTION OF FULL-TIME WORKERS
18  .   . - .  -                        - _,,,,,,,,, 
16 
14                              m
12.                  ,         0         -
10-U                           ....
6
2.  aS Mo ab 5S  nR/w   o
0                         Y
YEARS



- 72-
12.  Service profile. Figure 3 shows that about 60% of the workers have 15 or more years of
employment experience with the CFM. Education and skill levels are very low: 83% have less
than secondary education and 74% are labeled as unqualified workers and only 18% as qualified.
Fig. 3 Length of Service Full-time Workers
h'   anZ   sZ    s0'*  w  so'  5fi  Years
13.  Income profile. Figure 4 shows that more than 40% earn less than US$50 or just above
the minimum wage. Almost all workers eam less than US$100.
Fig. 4 Monthly Salaries (Source:Femave)
45 ,     
36    __
402 /
35'/
20./~
15, t*_
/          ,/06.e            @/        S
CONTOS
14. Supplementary sources of income. Information on supplementary sources of income was
difficult to obtain. It is likely that reluctance on the part of the respondents to divulge sources of
income other than their salaries is understandable in an enviromnent where most wage levels are
clearly insufficient to cover the average family's living expenses. CFM workers are highly
unionized and it would not be in their interests to admit that they had other means of coping.
Furthermore it seems likely that the respondents' interpretation of supplementary "income" was
different than from the interviewer's. In analyzing the data the conclusion was that "income" was
interpreted as any form of regular salary. This seems to be confirmed from the focus group where



- 73 -
workers made it clear that earning from wives working in the informal sector was not regarded as
a source of income but rather as a form of contribution (apoio familiar). As one focus group
discussant colorfully put it: In this country there are miracles because we manage to spend twice
what we earn. Barely 14% of the workers admitted to having "alternative sources of income".
Although this is unlikely to be the case, the fact that workers found it difficult to make ends meet
was made very clear in the focus group discussions. Very few workers had resources disposable
for investing in alternative income-generating activities. Almost all workers have dependants.
The average size of the nuclear family is 6.5. A significant proportion of the workers have
"other" dependants: 40% have non-spouse adult dependants and 34% have non-nuclear children
dependants (average 2.3). About 80% of those with alternative forms of income wanted to
expand these activities. About half indicated that they needed capital to do this with most
requiring amounts of less than 10m Mt (US$1,000).
15. In Mozambique an important alternative source of income is the machamba - usually a
small farm often at considerable distance from wage workers situated in the area of their
ancestors. Often these holdings are left unattended but in some cases have family members
cultivating them and remitting some of the production or proceeds to the owner to help sustain
their families. In the North, machambas were within easy reach of the workers' homes, given the
physical environs of Nampula City. In Beira many workers apparently had access to small areas
of productive land but that these were not seen as their true machambas. In Maputo, a very
different situation was observed, indicative of what appears to be the evolution of a veritable
urban proletariat. Very few respondents from the South claimed to have a machamba or an
intention of acquiring one. In terms of the AMachamba 's contribution to family welfare, focus
group discussants were quite disparaging, essentially claiming that it was little more than a
marginal amount.
16.  Almost three-quarters of the workers own their own houses, while only a small minority
(14%) live in CFM houses. Over half (53%) indicated that they planned to build new houses. A
third of the workers (33%/o) indicated that they would move if retrenched. Figure 7 shows that the
intention to move varies greatly according to region and strongly reflects the likely intention of
the workers to move to their machamba and take up agriculture. Hence the lowest propensity to
change residence was observed in the South (211%) and the highest in the Center (44%). About a
fifth (21%) of the workers hold savings accounts and 17% engage in informal savings patterns.
In terms of non-wage benefits, it appears that medical assistance is the main benefit. Access to
transport, social centers and creches seem to be available for a minority of workers.
Reactions To The Prospect Of Imminent RetirementlRetrenchment
17.  Regarding the possibility of being retrenched, more than three quarters (77.5%/O) did not
know if they would be but felt it was a distinct possibility. Only 11.5% felt that it was almost a
certainty while 10.9% were convinced that they would not be. Curiously, the relationship between
perceived likelihood of retrenchment was not as positively correlated between education and age
as one would have expected. Just over half (53%) felt that they would be treated fairly in the
retrenchment process while a significant 29% were afraid that they would not (17% were not
sure). Interestingly there was a clearly negative relationship between those who felt that they
would be fairly treated and their level of education, suggesting that more educated workers had
the greatest fears about the consequences of retrenchment and their likely treatment.
18.  Workers were asked whether they would prefer to continue working with the CFM or be
retrenched. Although respondents were told that they would get early retirement packages if they
had worked for at least 15 years for the CFM, it seems unlikely that many understood the
significance of this offer and that their responses were largely based on their rather muddled view



- 74-
of indemnity payments. This notwithstanding, a surprisingly large percentage of workers (42%)
opted for retrenchment. Some strong patterns were observed:
* There is a strong tendency for lesser educated workers to prefer retrenchment
* There is a very strong positive relationship between the willingness to be retrenched and
length of service but a negative relationship with higher salary levels
* Regionally there were significant variations: in the South only 28.3% preferred to be
retrenched vs. 55.8% in the center, 53.8% in the North and 43% in Zambezia (see figures 5
and 6)
Fig. 5 Percentage Respondents Preferring Retrenchment
60
SOUTH        CENTRE        NORTH       ZAMBEZIA
.FIg. 6 ProJected Retrenchmnent vs. Likely Volunteers
Projected
6,000                                   ern _n  
1,000
30~~~
20~~
1000 1   _          _ _         _ _
19. Propensity to move. Figure 7 shows the propensity to move on the part of workers if they
were indeed retrenched. One third (33%o) said they would. However, because ofthe very different
socio-economic characteristics of the three urban centers, very distinct regional differences
emerged, with the lowest inclination to move observed in the South and the highest in the Center.



- 75 -
Fig. 7 Intention Whether to Move or Not If retrenched
100%   . .. ...........   ..................... .. ..  .  ..................... ..     -.................
90%                  -                 -                -
80%                    -                                -
70%-
60%    _.  
50%                   --- -
30%                    -                                -
20% -                _7_                      
10%                    -                                -
0%                  _                 I               _
SOUTH           CENTRE            NORTH           ZAMBEZIA
20. Preferences for alternative activities. Figure 8 summarizes the main preferences of the
workers should they end up being retrenched. Just more than a third (35%) would choose to take
up agriculture (mostly on their machambas). Almost a third (30%) would look for alternative
employment, a quarter (25%) would establish small self-operated activities including small-scale
vending (13%), small productive activities (8%) and services (4%). With the strong exception of
the South, about the same proportion of urban workers (3 4%) wanted to take up agriculture as
did rural workers (3 9%/). Agriculture was clearly the strongest option amongst the lesser educated
while finding alternative employment possibilities was favored by the more educated. The
propensity to take up agriculture was also closely related to age and length of service.



- 76-
Fig. 8 Intentions if Retrenched
EMIGRATE            OTHER
100%
90%
SELF-EII/LOYMENT
80%
70% -   RETIRE
60%-
50%
40%   OOK FOR NEW JOB
30%-
20%-
10%
0%-_                                    l
SOUTH             CENTRE             NORTH             ZAMBEZIA
21.  Previous diagramns refer to a universal reaction to retrenchment i.e. reactions of all workers
even those who are unlikely to lose their jobs. It was therefore decided to take those workers who
preferred to be retrenched rather than maintaining their job as a fair proxy of those likely to be
retrenched in the future. The analysis found, not surprisingly, that the characteristics of those
willing to be voluntarily retrenched reflect those characteristics that one is likely to promote if
retrenchment were to be undertaken on a selective basis. Hence, those wishing to be voluntarily
retrenched tended to be older, have longer years of service, be less educated and occupy lower job
categories. Because of continued recruitment of workers in the South while other regions stopped,
the South has a considerably more youthful workforce than the other regions, partly explaining
the much lower willingness to be retrenched in the South vs. the rest (see Figure 5).
22.  Workers were asked in what ways the CFM could help them if retrenched. No choice from
a menu was given. The largest proportion (19.1%) said that would like assistance with the
construction or improvement of their housing, while 13.8% mentioned monetary compensation.
Barely 5% asked for assistance in finding new employment. Assistance for training was
effectively not mentioned (when given training as a choice from an options menu - see next
paragraph and fig. 9 almost half were interested in basic business courses and almost 40% in
skills training).
23.  Figure 9 shows the preferences expressed by the retrenched proxy group in response to a
menu of choices. The figure clearly shows the significant variations by region. In terms of
training, only 14% of the workers were not interested in receiving any form of training. Interest in
training was clearly (positively) related to levels of education and very (negatively) related to age.



- 77-
Fig. 9 Preferences Expressed by Retrenched Proxy Group
100%/o                                                    _
1 l    _l               l _l             ~~~~~~~Bank loan
80% _ |                                                       Support in Finding-
=                          ~~~~~~~New Job
~~~~~~~~~~~Tech.1 Training
80h0 _                                                              (new skills)
variations of3 course havemporntpolicyi.(current skills)
40%/ - -1l We
3 ~~~~~~~~~~~Management
202 h furort                                             for New aras n
_              _          ~~~~~~~~~Activity    \
_              _        ~~~~~~~Agricultural_
0%      _                  _          ~~~~~~~~~Support  _
SOUTH             CENTRE              NORTH             ZAMBEZIA
Regional Differences And Their Policy Implications
24.  One of the most significant findings of the general survey was the very distinct regional
socio-economic variations observed in the worker profiles and their intentions/wants. These
variations of course have important policy implications.
25.  The four executive directorates of the CFM are located in the 4 principal urban areas of
Mozambique. Each of the 4 has a unique and distinct socio-economic environment that will
strongly influence the post-retrenchment predilections of the workers from those areas. The
Maputo/Machava-Matola axis is clearly distinguished from the other cities in terms of relative
size and industrial capital stock. It has been much more dynamic economically than all other
regions, partly because of the relatively high concentration of Government resources, but mainly
because of its strategic location and preference by investors. For the foreseeable future, economic
growth in Mozambique will be focussed in the Maputo region, thus further accentuating the



- 78-
regional imbalance. Because of Maputo's industrial development, the worker population, often
multi-generationally proletarian, is found to have no possession of a machamba and has no
intention of uprooting to find the home of their ancestors as many ancestors were in fact urban
based. Much of the distinct nature of the Southern workers is accounted by the particular nature
of Maputo. However, much of the difference is also accounted for by the very distinct differences
in the makeup of the workforce of the South who tend to be younger, more educated and with less
years of service - all consequences of a continued policy to recruit new employees despite the
fact CFM as a whole was instructed to freeze further recruitment and to pare down respective
workforces through natural atrophy.
26.  The South as a CFM region is characterized by the following:
Workers are considerably younger than the other 3 regions (the other three regions
showing a similar distribution)
The average length of service is significantly less than the other 3 regions (the other three
regions showing a similar distribution)
*Workers are more educated than the other 3 regions (the proportion of workers with 0-4
years of education is about half of the other 3 regions)
*  Workers are much more resistant to retrenchment than other areas (28% said they would
prefer retrenchment to keeping their job vs. 56% of the Center)
* A much smaller proportion of retrenched workers likely to change residence (21% vs.
44% of the Center)
* A much smaller proportion of workers preferring to take up agriculture if retrenched than
other regions
A much greater interest on the part of the likely retrenched to receive basic business
training than the other regions
A much higher willingness to organize themselves and work with ex-colleagues in
establishing a small activity (almost half of those from the South vs. less than a quarter in
Beira and substantially less in other regions).
27.  The Central region is dominated by Beira a city that appears to consist of a much more
transient, less settled population than Maputo and its satellite cities. Although Mozambique's
second city, in contrast to Maputo, it is economically moribund, with little investment outside of
the port and the Beira Corridor infrastructure. Population pressure and a large area of
surrounding swampland (used mainly for rice production) makes it difficult for residents to
acquire machambas. Information gathered from focus groups suggests that workers have small
garden plots to supplement their incomes.
28.  The Center is characterized by the following:
Beira represents the converse of Maputo in relation to agriculture and business training.
The highest proportion - more than half (56%) - prefer retrenchment to keeping their job.
The highest proportion of workers would leave their current residence if retrenched.
29. Nampula is the capital of the richest agricultural province. Residents of Nampula, in stark
contrast to Maputo are highly dependent on their machambas to supplement their wages. In
terms of the CFM labor force, the North is characterized by:
The highest proportion (49.8%) of workers who would opt for fanning if retrenched.



- 79-
* The lowest number of workers (16.5% vs. 47% from the South) who would look for a
new job if retrenched.
* The highest proportion (27%) requesting support (from an options menu) for assistance
in finding new employment (reflecting the difficulty in finding employment vs. only
12% requesting support in the South where work is easier to find)
* It is the only zone where the numbers of workers willing to be retrenched outnumber the
number projected for retrenchment.
30.  Zambezia is a city that has limited agricultural land in its immediate vicinity because it is
surrounded by coconut plantations and sugar fields. In many ways Zambezia displayed
characteristics similar to that of the South. The sample taken from this zone was very small (100).
This zone was characterized by:
A very small percentage of workers wishing to take on farming (just higher than the
17.5% of the South).
The highest proportion of workers intending to take up a self-employed activity if
retrenched (33%)
The smallest proportion after the South of workers wanting to move residence after
retrenchment.
Recommendations
31. An Accurate and Coordinated Dissemination Campaign. The Human Resources
Department of the CFM would be expected to design a coordinated program of information
posters and pamphlets which would then be applied in a consistent manner in each region. Human
resource staff members throughout the country would be given basic training and be adequately
informed of each new development in the retrenchment process. With each new major
development e.g. early pension regulations, new posters and pamphlets be issued in the principal
regional languages.
32. Appropriate and Sensitized Counseling. In addition to being properly informed about the
process of retrenchment and its associated rights and accompanying support programs, retrenched
workers will have their social and economic reintegration made less daunting if reinforced by
appropriate and sensitized counseling. Appropriate and sensitized counseling would imply that
counseling would be given in a professional way by counselors properly trained to understand the
problems retrenched workers are likely to face and the socio-economic environment as well as
retrenchment support packages that determine the parameters of choice. Good counseling would
recognize the economic potential of each retrenched worker and match this potential with the best
option available. To do this well require a sound knowledge of the region and what it can
realistically offer along with the ability to match a person's capacity to his/her ambition. The
counseling services would not only focus on redeployment but also on the social aspects of
reintegration.






MAP SECTION






mq"'   I"  -                                                   36-
OEM- RE
TANZANIA
IPALAW
AN50LA
ZAMBIA
tr mocimboo
VCI                                                                                                                p'.i.
Yj,                                                                                                              -1 1,AMAIA
'd
-T
'NCA                                                           'A
MAIA
"a-Cc
VN-.&JEZ
AFWA                                                                                                     --CA 3 0
D E L, p;4-b-6
N' I A S 5 A
lkh'
,/.:MALAWI                                       F
VN
.ZAMBIA
Mdvnji
-q
p
UlA
C.                                    Nom
TE T F
g"
\1    Chz
a\ V'\                                                                          4,
N
7                                                       z          E z i
'k
N", ACA
8
e'
0,                                              A407 A jO B I 0 U E
-_4
1Y9
ZIMBABWE                                            S\O F  L A'.
Chimi.
M A N%C
M! 0 Z A M B I Q U E
os;)
:RAILWAYSAND PORTS                                       2`
RESTIZUCTURING PROJECT
NO   R Z                    %
Moin roads
URO
Rail com ors:
:0
.,',ANGENA                                                          peratiorid.
--A
-22,                                                                                                  urren   non-operdfiorted                 2V-
I N,H A M 9 A NE                                  Selected cies-
G AKA       V                                                  Province ccrpitals
%\
Nofiorval ccipitot
-A
VA' NC
j                                 Districtbobn4ciries
JANCAM0
SOUTH
Pmvince 66tmdari
intemational boundaries
AFRICA                 j/hAPUTQ__
7
Mk "'p       by #,.M,p D.* Wt 0 A. wdd 2-4
T6 b ... d.6, -f-, d                               :2A
I A
f -h
>
'SCA ITH NFRICALz     U.                                              W



