E-375
VOL. 1
Prjecos e  s  ArTbientais
W INDD,  a    1999
Nlaputo, Mlarch 1999






Executive Summary: Environmental Audit SManaqement-Plan,for the Rail & Port Restnrctunrin Prpiect
The purpose of this report is to provide guidelines for implementing an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for CFM controlled ports harbours
and railway corridors in Mozambique and future concessionaires.
The report comprises two principal components. The first presents the results
of a legislative, institutional and environmental audit relating to all facilities,
operations and activities at the ports, harbours and railway corridors of
Maputo, Beira, Nacala and Quelimane (the latter only the port) which are
currently under CFM control.
The results of the audit are a combination of data collected from site visits and
desktop studies. The outputs from the analysis of the results have been
synthesis6u and presenited ais X~.y.. ksues of primary concern; A seriez. or
recommendations are then suggested, in the broad context of mitigating
negative environmental impacts, risks to the health and safety of employees,
emergency response procedures and conducting operations in compliance
with existing environmental. polibies, relevant legislation and regulations.
These summary recommendations are used to generate a suite of strategic
objectives and associated actions to formulate an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) that encompasses the diverse range of activities
and operations currently under CFM control. This forms the second major
component of this report. The target goal is to implement an EMP that meets
the standards of environmental management recommended by the World
Bank and IS04001.
Costing exercises for suggested mitigation against actual and potential
impacts identified during the audit process, and management and capacity-
building prerequisites for successful implementation of the EMP have been
carried out. This information is presented in a series of summary tables in
chapters 5 and 6 (Table a-VII).
Impact5o Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Rai7 & Port Restnucturinq Project
As necessary background information on the ports, harbours, and railway
corridors, this report also incorporates:
> Comprehensive biophysical descriptions;
> Current socio-economic conditions;
> Infrastructures and services;
> Detailed analysis of legal and institutional framework for environmental
Management
THE ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT PLAN  IN THE
CONTEXT OF NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
Mozambique has recently adopted the National Environmental Management
Programme (NEMP) which seeks to promote and implement sound
environmental policy. The NEMP is an integral component of the Mozambican
government's five-year Development Programme (1995-1999) the main
objective of which is the eradication of poverty through sustainable
development.
A specific Action identified in the NEMP for coastal and marine protection is:
"To promote the creation of conditions for national ports,
especially the ports of Maputo, Beira and Nacala to deal
with wastes arising from shipping activities".
In July 1997 the Framework Environmental Law, arising from the NEMP
was passed which requires the incorporation of environmental
considerations into sectoral plans, programs and policies. In this context
CFM is required by law to ensure that it adopts sound environmental
policies and practices.
LEGISLATIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Mozambique possesses a wide array of legislative diplomas, decrees and
regulations related to environmental management and protection. In addition,
Mozambique has acceded to several international conventions. The
Framework Environmental Law is a broad law covering all aspects of
environmental protection. Specific regulations are currently being formulated.
Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon CFM to review and where necessary
revise sectoral policies, plans, operations and regulations to ensure that these
are in conformance with the Environmental Law.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999



Executive Summarv: Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Rail g Pbrt Restrrctunn- Proiect
It follows that:
> CFM must review, revise and update port, harbour and railway regulations
to ensure that they adequately address environmental protection, workers
health and safety and emergency situations.
> CFM must up-date and reformulate the Employees Safety and Health
Document and ensure that workers are fully cognisant of safety and health
procedures.
> CFM must formulate an Operation Emergency Response manual and
establish procedures for implementing measures to deal with emergency
responses.
Independent of CFM, individual concessionaires are obliged to be in
compliance with the Framework Environmental Law which requires regular
environmental audits and ElAs for projects that may result in significant
negative environmental impacts.
In general, institutions in Mozambique lack operational capacity to carry out
effective environmental management, control and enforcement. In addition,
there is a lack of formal co-ordination between institutions. Institutional
strengthening and improved inter-institutional co-ordination is required to
ensure- propcr m3nar'ement, .nntrol and enforcement with regards to
environmental monitoring, ElAs, land-based pollution, oil spills'and dredging.
Under the restructuring programme CFM, as a holding company, will enter
into contractual agreements with concessionaires who will operate
components of CFM's current operations for an agreed period. An
Independent Authority will be created to oversee CFM's manageThent and
operations to ensure that CFM is performing in the public interest. Following
restructuring the implementation sound environmental practices can be
promoted at various levels:
1. Clear Terms of Reference for the Independent Authority to evaluate the
environmental performance of CFM and concessionaires and where
necessary to regulate. This will be contingent upon the Independent Authority
being legally constituted with statutory powers to take actions where
necessary.
2. Monitoring of CFM's own environmental performance as well as the
performance  of  concessionaires  through  the  already  established
environmental unit.
3. The inclusion of clauses in contractual agreements between CFM and
concessionaires that specify compliance with environmental legislation and
regulations.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Rail & Port Restructuring Project
4. Individual concessionaires are obliged to be in compliance with
environmental legislation and regulations and must, therefore, adopt sound
environmental management policies and practices.
5. Notwithstanding the establishment of internal regulatory mechanisms,
agencies such as SAFMAR and MICOA have statutory authority to control
and enforce compliance with existing legislation and regulations.
I SUMMARY FINDINGS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT
The results of the environmental audit reveal a range of issues that are
summarised below.
1. Dredging
That dredging is of critical importance in the continued use of Mozambique's
ports is clearly illustrated by the situation at Quelimane where no maintenance
dredging has occurred over the past five years. The current heavy
sedimentation has resulted in the turning basin in front of the quay getting too
shallow to receive vessels. However, of even greater concern is that currently,
dredging and spoil disposal is being conducted with limited knowledge of
'^o-P ' inprnics and estuarine ecologv (which varies between ports). For
example in Maputo, dredging spoil are currently disposed along the westem
margins of Baia da Capitania where fine sediments can be easily re-
suspended and migrate to the channel areas from which they have just been
dredged. A similar scenario emerges where mangrove communities are
depleted as they function as natural sediment traps. This general lack of
knowledge of coastal zone dynamics is a particularly sensitive matter in cities
like Beira, which suffer from severe coastal erosion. Based on the findings of
this report we recommend:
. The development of National Environmental Plan for dredging and site
disposal activities as a guide to the opening and maintenance operations
of port access channels in sound and sustainable way.
* Monitoring programmes and, where necessary, ElAs for all dredge-related
activities for all of Mozambique's ports. Beira port is the only site for which
an EIA has been conducted.
* That special consideration should be given to ecologically sensitive areas,
notably mangroves and other wetlands, seagrass beds, and coral reef
communities, and mitigation measures are taken wherever possible.
Impact5, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999  iv



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit & Manaaement Pfan foKthe Mail'S Port Restructuinna Pmiect
Careful selection of disposal sites, routine analysis of dredged sediments
for contaminants, and consideration of the possibility for using the dredged
material to rehabilitate ecosystems or to help erosion control.
2. Environmental and safety issues relating to general cargoes, raw
materials and  waste management   at Mozambican  ports and
transport corridors
In countries throughout the world, ports and associated transport corridors
have to handle, and store a diverse range of raw materials and products;
Mozambique is no exception. This diversity of activities poses potential risks
to the environment viz. pollution via oil and hazardous materials spills (in ports
and at sea) and unsound waste management practices and to the health and
safety of employees viz. handling of hazardous materials and operating
transport and loading equipment and other machinery.  Other problems
surrounding such large-scale operations include the occurrence of unforeseen
emergency situations such as fires or explosions at oil terminals and natural
disasters such as floods, cyclones etc. Depending on the context, this range
of impacts can occur on a local, regional, National or global scale. Based on
the findings of this report, we recommend:
. Implementation of air pollution control measures. Employees and the
environment are currently at risk from uncontrolled storage of asbestos
containing materials (all ports), ammonia emissions (Maputo only), dust
from the unbunded storage of coal (al! ports), silica frorn unhnded wheat
storage (Nacala only) and dust from the CFM-Sul quarry (Maputo).
. An assessment of the degree of disrepair of all storage and transfer
facilities for petroleum products and food oils at all ports and an EIA at
facilities where leaks and spills have already occurred. v
* Implementation of formal guidelines for the safe handling and storage of
both hazardous waste and hazardous products.
. A review and revision of current waste management practices. It is
essential to collect, store and dispose the myriad variety of general and
hazardous waste materials on a routine basis. Recycling options should
also be carefully considered. Waste-related management practices are
currently non-existent; hence there are a range of serious potential risks to
both employees and the immediate environment.
. An assessment of storm water drainage systems at all ports, as there is
currently a lack of adequate facilities. This introduces the risk of pollution
through groundwater and soil contamination, runoff to the marine
environment as well as risk to the health and safety of employees.
* An environmental audit of domestic sewage waste management practices.
Currently sewage is stored and processed in septic tanks, French drains
Impacro, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999    v



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit & Mana-cement Plan for the Rail & Port Restructunna Proiect
etc. However, untreated stored sewage represents a potential health
hazard and a risk to the environment. Hence all such facilities should be
subject to regular checks, routine maintenance and EIA if spillage or leaks
are reported.
. Review existing guidelines for employee safety and health under all
working conditions. This problem is highlighted when considering the state
of disrepair of General Workshop areas and repair facilities which suffer
from inadequate mechanical and electrical safety, fire protection,
ventilation (especially in paint workshops) and storage and disposal of
waste oils etc. which accumulate on a day to day basis. Furthermore,
There appears to be no formal system of permit use when operating
equipment and no provisioning of protective clothing where appropriate.
3. Rail corridors
Materials transported along the Maputo, Beira and Nacala rail corridors
include chemicals, and petroleum products and other potentially hazardous
materials and herbicides are used to control vegetation along the tracks. Rail
sidings are littered with abandoned and neglected rolling stock, trucks and
coaches. There has been haphazard dumping of waste such as asbestos and
cther puauiit.-.Is espec ': ang the Maputo Corridor. The poor condition of
the track at Maputo and Matola leads to regular derailments with attenaant
risks of pollution and accidents to employees. There is an employee health
and safety manual for CFM railway employees but it is out of date and rarely
consulted.
The volume and nature of cargo transported within the corridors c6tupled with
inadequate maintenance constitutes a major risk to adjacent environments
along the corridors as well as to the health and safety of employees. Based
on the findings of this report we recommend:
* ElAs with special reference to soil erosion in mountainous regions and all
protected areas that these rail corridors traverse. Deforestation is already
occurring as a consequence of informal settlement along rail corridors. Of
special importance are the controlled hunting areas south of Gorongosa,
and forest reserves in Manica and Sofala provinces. Any EIA should be
conducted in co-ordination with DNFFB to ensure that they are carried out
in accordance with ongoing conservation programmes.
* Handling and transport of hazardous materials to be in concordance with
CFM policy for handling similar materials in ports.
* Implementing routine maintenance along all corridors in order to reduce
the frequency of occurrence of derailments and accidents to employees.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999   vi



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Rail & Port Restructunna Project.
.  Implementing waste management practices in concordance with CFM
policy for ports.
*  An assessment of the state of disrepair of all CFM rolling stock currently
used to transport fuels and other potentially hazardous materials. Repairs
should be carried out and a programme of routine maintenance
implemented thereafter.
| THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
CFM's Environmental Management Plan is based upon a suite of objectives
each comprising a series of actions.
The overall objective of the EMP is:
To ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated
into all plans, programs and activities carried out by CFM and
concessionaires so that these are in compliance with existing
Mozambican    environmental   policies,   legislation    and
regulations
Strategic Objective I
To formulate an environmental policy clearly indicating CFM's commitment
to incorporate environmental dimensions into all plans, -programmes and
activities  in  compliance  with  existing  legislation,  regulations  and
conventions.
ACTION
1. Draw up and formalise an environmental policy related to CFM's plans,
programs and activities.
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999     vii



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Ral7 & Port Restructurinn Proiect
CFM Policy should state clearly the companies firn commitment to
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, the promotion of waste
reduction, resource and property conservation and environmental protection
and the training of employees to be knowledgeable about all environmental
matters relevant to their work.
Strategic Objective 2
To ensure that CFM and concessionaires are in compliance with existing
policies, legislation, regulations and regional and international conventions.
ACTIONS
1. Review where necessary, current CFM policy to be in compliance with
existing laws, regulations and licensing procedures.
2. Include contractual obligations to comply with environmental norms and
regulations in contracts drawn up between CFM and concessionaires.
Strategic Objective 3
To define and develop institutional roles, responsibilities f-Eand Jisdictional
competencies in order to co-ordinate activities for the impiement.ation .ofthe
EMP.
ACTIONS
1. Review institutional roles and responsibilities.
2. Identify inter-institutional mechanisms for improved environmental
monitoring, enforcement and control.
Impac?o, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999      viii



Executive Summary: Environmental Audit,& Management Plan for the Rai & Port Restructunng Proiect
Strategic Objective 4
To reduce and prevent negative environmental impacts arising from
operations and activities performed by CFM and concessionaires.
ACTIONS
1. Document base-line environmental conditions of areas affected by
operations and activities carried by CFM and concessionaires, based on the
information presented in this report.
2. Develop procedures for environmental screening of operations and
activities carried by CFM and concessionaires.
3. Develop guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment procedures
associated with ports, harbour and railways operations that may have
significant environmental impacts. These will identify appropriate mitigation
measures to reduce/eliminate actual/potential environmental impacts.
4. Develop a monitoring program to ensure that environmental impacts are
detected at all levels and stages of the project operations and activities.
5. Develop best practices ariu piotocols for the transport, handling, treatment
and disposal of general and hazardous materials and wastes to
minimise/eliminate risk of environmental and human health risks.
Strategic Objective 5
To update employee health and safety guidelines and develop procedures.
for their implementation.
ACTIONS
1. Update guidelines and implement procedures for employee health and
safety.
2. Through awareness and training ensure that workers are fully familiar with
employee health and safety regulations and procedures.
Impacto Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999     iX



Executive Summary. Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Rail & Port Restructunno Project
Strategic Objective 6
To ensure that CFM/concessionaires are able to cope with emergency
situations that may impact on human and environmental well being.
ACTIONS
1. Formulate a policy and guidelines for emergency response for emergency
situations.
2. Develop adequate procedures for emergency responses for disasters and
accidents.
Strategic Objective 7
To ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated into dredging
operations associated with Maputo, Beira and Quelimane Ports
ACTION
1. In collaboration with relevant national institutions develop a National Policy
on dredging and dredged material disposal associated with CFM's ,Yorts and
harbours
Strategic Objective 8
To formulate, in collaboration with relevant national institutions, a National
Oil Spill Contingency Plan.
ACTION
1. In collaboration and consultation with SAFMAR and MICOA, formulate a
national oil spill contingency plan.
Impacte, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999    x



Executive Summarv: Environmental Audit. & Management Plan for the Rail & Port Restructunrin Project
Strategic Objective 9
To formulate and implement a human resources development strategy for
environmental management through appropriate training.
ACTIONS
1. Carry out training needs assessment of CFM staff and associated
agencies.
2. Based on the training, needs assessment, develop, design and/or identify
appropriate training courses for CFM staff and associated agencies.
Strategic Objective 10
In the long term, formulate an environmental management system based on
Internationally accepted criteria and standards, specifically ISO 14001.
ACTION
1. Through a process of refinement and revision to the EMP to d6velop an
environmental management plan that is in full conformance with ISO 14001
Based on these actions, a series of detailed plans and recommendations
for implementation have been formulated, viz.
> An outline policy for CFM
> Contractual obligations of concessionaires
> Institutional roles in co-ordinating improved environmental screening,
monitoring, enforcement and control
> Detailed environmental assessment and monitoring
> Environmental impact assessment procedures/ requirements
Impacto, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999   xi



Executive Summarv. Environmental Audit & Management Plan for the Rail & Port Restructurinca Project
> Waste management plan
> Employee safety and health policy for the ports, harbours and railways of
Mozambique
>  Operational emergency organisation
>  Establishment of norms and guidelines for dredging
>  Oil spill management
>  Training
>  Conformance with ISO 14001 Standards
Impactcr, Projectos e Estudos Ambientais - March 1999         xii



