Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3288-MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Railways and Ports Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 28, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3288-MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 16, 1999, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen its transport sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment 
to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
Parts A, B, and C of the Project will be carried out by Portos e Caminhos 
de Ferro de Moçambique E. P. (CFM) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the CFM part of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and CFM;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through\0bDecember 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Banco de Moçambique” means the central bank of the Borrower; 
(b)
“CFM” means Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique E.P., a company 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s decree No. 40/94 of  1994; 
(c)
“INAC” means Instituto Nacional de Aviação Civil, the Borrower’s 
Institute of Civil Aviation; 
(d)
“Mozambican Metical” and “Mt” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(e)
“MTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Communications; 
(f)
“Performance Contract” means the contract to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CFM pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, containing inter 
alia, the corporate restructuring strategy, debt service obligations, investment 
program and its financing, public service obligations, and flow of funds generated by 
CFM activities and concessions;
(g)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement; 
(h)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section  3.05 of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and CFM 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 5, 1998, and March 25, 1998, as amended, between the Borrower and the 
Association; 
(l)
“Regulatory Agency” means the Borrower’s regulatory agency for the 
railway and port sectors to be established under Part E.2 of the Project; 
(m)
“Social Mitigation Plan” means the plan to mitigate social consequences 
of retrenchment, adopted by the Borrower on April 22, 1999;
(n)
“Staff Rationalization Plan” means the staff rationalization and 
redeployment plan to be adopted by the Borrower  pursuant to Section 6.01 (j) of this 
Agreement;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(p)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CFM, pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
Page  3
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary  
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-three million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 73,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account, in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2010, and ending August 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2019, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts D, E, and F of the Project through MTC, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CFM to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CFM 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable CFM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts D, E, and F of the Project through MTC and cause CFM to carry 
out Parts A, B, and C of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
For the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(i) relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories 2(a), 
3(a), 4(a) and 5(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
CFM; and (ii) make available, as grant, the proceeds of the Credit allocated  from 
time to time to Category 5(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, both under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CFM (the Subsidiary Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.  
Page  5
(e)
For the purposes of Parts A, B, and C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary  Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and  
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, and 
C of the Project shall be carried out by CFM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account), in dollars 
equivalent, in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an 
amount equivalent to $50,000, to finance the Borrower's contribution to the Project; 
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by January 1, April 1, July 1 and 
October 1, in each year, until the completion of the Project, an amount equivalent to 
$50,000, subject to a limit of $100,000 equivalent in the balance of the Project 
Account; and 
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project.
Section 3.06.  Without limitation to its obligations under Sections 3.01 and 
3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open and maintain: (i) a dedicated account 
in Meticais to deposit the Borrower’s contribution for severance payments in an amount 
identified in the Staff Rationalization Plan; and (ii) a dedicated account in Meticais 
to deposit the Association’s share from the proceeds of the Credit to be used for the 
payment of severance under Category 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) no later than 12 months after the 
Effective Date, carry out, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, a study on the problems and proposed arrangements relating to the payment 
of pensions to the workers of public sector enterprises under the Borrower’s 
responsibility, including CFM; (ii) discuss the findings of the said study with the 
Association; and (iii) thereafter promptly implement the recommendations emanating 
therefrom.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawa
ls.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out or, in the case of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, cause CFM to carry out, a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project  implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
Page  7
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
CFM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CFM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the events specified in 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
CFM has appointed a financial management committee for CFM with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has appointed a financial management committee for MTC, with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has established a project accounting system within MTC for 
the purpose of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
CFM has established a project accounting system for the purpose of 
Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, satisfactory to the Association; 
(e)
CFM has appointed a financial manager, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(f)
the Performance Contract between the Borrower and CFM,  in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, has been executed;  
(g)
the Subsidiary  Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CFM; 
(h)
the Borrower has, in accordance with Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, 
made the initial deposit into the Project Account;  
(i)
CFM has appointed an independent external auditor, in accordance with the 
Page  8
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(j)
the Borrower has adopted a Staff Rationalization Plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CFM, 
and is legally binding upon CFM in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CFM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CFM in accordance with 
its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Banco de Moçambique is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relaçoes Internacionais
Maputo 
Republic of Mozambique
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcos Namashulua 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  6,080,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) CFM 
  1,110,000
(b) MTC
    590,000
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
(a) CFM
  4,870,000
(b) MTC
  5,310,000
(4)
Training
100%
(a) CFM
  3,690,000
(b) MTC
    300,000
(5)
Severance payments 
100% of local
and social mitigation
expenditures
(a) For loans under
 25,060,000
Part B.1 (a)
(b) For grants under
 22,120,000
Part B.1 (b)
(6)
Refunding of Project
    740,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
  3,930,000
TOTAL
 73,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  10
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “severance payments and social mitigation” means payments made 
by CFM, under Part B of the Project, to its employees separated pursuant to the Staff 
Rationalization Plan. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, each withdrawal in respect 
of payments made for expenditures under Category (5), shall be made only after the 
Borrower has furnished to the Association, a report of an independent auditor 
certifying: (i) that the computation of the severance payment is in accordance with 
the Staff Rationalization Plan; (ii) that the corresponding share of the Borrower for 
the statutory severance payment has been deposited in the name of CFM in an account 
opened for such purpose; and (iii) that the invoice for the negotiated severance 
payment is submitted in conjunction with  the invoice for the statutory severance 
payment. 
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) for services of firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) for services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and (v) severance payments and 
social mitigation, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the operating efficiency of 
the Borrower’s three major port-rail systems thus enabling the Borrower to increase 
their share of the international freight traffic from the neighboring countries; and 
(ii) strengthen the transport sector policy, the regulatory framework, and the 
institutional capacity of MTC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Concession of CFM Ports and Railways
Strengthening of the operational capabilities of CFM, through technical advisory 
services, to: 
(a)
prepare, design, negotiate, implement and monitor concession agreements, 
and carry out its responsibilities as equity shareholder in concession companies; and
(b)
enter into concession agreements in respect of: (i) the Nacala port 
system including the port terminals, the sea and land-side port services, and the 
Nacala railway systems; (ii) the Beira port system, including the port terminals, the 
sea and land-side port services, and the Beira railway systems; and (iii) the Maputo 
port system including the port terminals, the sea and land-side port services, and the 
Maputo railway systems.
Part B:
Staff Rationalization
1.
Assisting CFM to carry out a program for the retrenchment of staff of CFM 
declared redundant as a result of the restructuring of CFM, including the provision 
of: (a) negotiated severance payments, and (b) statutory severance payments.
Page  11
2.
Assisting CFM to carry out a program of redeployment of said redundant CFM 
Staff, including:
(a)
provision to such staff of counseling services: (i) relating to available 
retrenchment packages and how best to utilize such packages; and (ii) enabling 
redundant staff to deal with job loss and to be better informed of available job 
options, and providing psychological counseling and support services; and
(b)
development of retraining programs to assist redundant staff to enhance 
their chances of: (i) reemployment and integration into the labor market; or (ii) 
setting up businesses of their own. 
3.
Assisting CFM in the carrying out of a program to mitigate the adverse social 
impact of staff redundancy and rationalization, consistent with the Social Mitigation 
Plan. 
4.
Assisting CFM in the establishment and operation of a pension fund. 
5
Assisting CFM in the development of a system for the dissemination of 
information on a regular basis regarding the issues pertaining to the restructuring of 
CFM in general and staff rationalization program in particular. 
6.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of equipment in 
connection with this Part B.
Part C:
Corporate Restructuring
1.
The carrying out of a study to: (i) review the legal framework for creating  
holding and subsidiary companies to take over some of the functions of CFM; (ii) 
formulate such changes as may be necessary in the statutes of CFM; (iii) prepare the 
Articles of Association for the holding and the subsidiary companies; (iv) design the 
internal organization, structure and regulations for the new holding and subsidiary 
companies; and (v) design and establish a technical regulatory unit within CFM.  
2.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of equipment in 
connection with this Part C.
Part D:
Strengthening of MTC
1.
The carrying out of a study to: (i) review the Borrower’s transport policy 
framework; (ii) review the framework for concessions; (iii) define the new functions 
of MTC and assess MTC’s organizational structure in the framework of its evolving 
role; and (iv) determine staffing requirements, taking into account the Borrower’s 
civil service reform program. 
2.
The provision of technical advisory services in connection with this Part D.
Part E:
Regulatory Framework 
1.
The carrying out of a study to (i) identify the scope, functions, and 
instruments for the economic regulatory framework for the transport sector; (ii) 
recommend the sectoral coverage and accountability relationships for the regulatory 
institution; (iii) define the staffing, internal organization, operating costs and 
financing mechanisms for a new regulatory agency; and (iv) prepare the necessary draft 
legislation. 
2.
The acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory services to (i) 
enable the launching of the Borrower’s new regulatory agency and the preparation of 
its staff in the carrying out of the agency’s functions; (ii) support the functioning 
of the agency for an initial period of 3-5 years; and (iii) strengthen INAC’s 
capabilities in the technical regulation of the civil aviation subsector. 
Part F:
Tertiary Ports 
1.
Assisting MTC in the carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of the small 
ports of Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane.
Page  12
2.
The provision of technical advisory services for: (i) the supervision of the 
civil works in the said four ports, and (ii) the preparation of a study on the 
revitalization of the Inhambane Port. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: 
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, and January 1999, (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  13
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or more, the following procedures shall apply:  
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier  under shopping procedures 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines),  and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  14
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for  tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than May 31 each year, commencing May 31, 2000, undertake, in 
conjunction with CFM, and jointly with the Association, an annual review on all 
matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project during the previous Fiscal Year, having 
regard to the Performance Indicators; and
(b)
furnish to the Association: 
(i)
semiannual financial statements indicating all revenues and 
expenditures for 
the rail and port sector, according to the source of 
funds, the budget items; 
and 
(ii)
not later than one month prior to the annual review referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) above, or such later date as the Association may agree, 
a report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed during the previous Fiscal 
Year and setting out the measures 
proposed to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the 
Page  15
achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following 
such date, and the report of actual expenditures against the 
budget 
for the previous Fiscal Year.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
in conjunction with CFM, review with the Association, by May 31, 2001, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5), set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, work services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.   
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  16
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1.
Capital or operating subsidy from the Borrower to CFM. 
2.
Dividends from CFM to the Borrower.  
3.
Implementation of the Staff Rationalization Plan, in particular: (i) the rate of 
retrenchment of surplus staff; (ii) the rate of training, retraining, and counseling 
of retrenched staff; and (iii) the rate of redeployment of retrenched staff. 
4.
The freight traffic from the neighboring countries. 
5.
Signing and operationalization of sea port and rail concessions. 
