Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER
3288-MOZ
Project Agreement
(Railways and Ports Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PORTOS E CAMINHOS DE FERRO DE MO
ÇAMBIQUE, E. P.
Dated October
28, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER
3288-MOZ 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October
28, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and PORTOS E CAMINHOS DE FERRO DE MOÇAMBIQUE E. P. (CFM).
WHEREAS
(A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Mozambique
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-three 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 73,800,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that CFM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CFM 
a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to CFM on terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS CFM in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section
1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section
2.01. (a) CFM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule
2
to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall
carry out Parts A, B, and C of  the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, B and C of
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CFM shall otherwise agree, CFM shall carry out Parts
A, B and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule
4
to the Development Credit Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3
to the
Development Credit Agreement. 
Section
2.03. (a) CFM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition
)
in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CFM shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish
to the Association not later than six
(6) after the Closing 
Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Association and CFM, a plan
for the future operation of the Project;
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with CFM on
said plan.
Section
2.04. CFM shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CFM shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section
2.05. CFM shall duly perform all its obligations under the Performance 
Contract.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CFM shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Performance Contract or any provision thereof.
Section
2.06. (a) CFM shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Agreement, under the
Performance Contract, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
CFM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CFM of its
obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Agreement, and under the
Page  3
Performance Contract
.
Section
2.07. CFM shall, in the carrying out of Part B of the Project, apply the 
procedures and guidelines of the Staff Rationalization Plan, and at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project, and shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the carrying out of Part B
of the Project.
Section
2.08. CFM shall promptly inform the Association of all the agreements 
and arrangements proposed to be entered into by CFM in connection with the
concessioning of any part of the CFM system with supporting evaluation of the impact
on CFM
’s financial performance of such agreements and arrangements, and provide the
Association with any information and documentation that the Association may reasonably
request from time to time.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CFM
Section
3.01. CFM shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers. 
Section
3.02. CFM shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be 
operated and maintained, its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make, or cause to be made, all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial technical and
environmental practices.
Section
3.03. CFM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) CFM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
CFM shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later
than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) 
certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so
audited and
(B)
the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records,
accounts and financial statements as well as the
audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section
5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section
5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CFM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CFM of 
this event.
Section
5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For PORTOS E CAMINHOS DE FERRO DE MO
ÇAMBIQUE, E. P.:
Caixa Postal
2158
Praçada Trabalhadores
Maputo
Mozambique
Section
6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CFM or by CFM
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its President and Chairman of the Board, or by such other person or
persons as the President and Chairman of the Board, CFM shall designate in writing,
and CFM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section
6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Page  5
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
PORTOS E CAMINHOS DE FERRO DE MO
ÇAMBIQUE, E. P.
By
/s/
Marcos Namashulua
Authorized Representative
