39702

Communications,5) Regulatory Frameworlc Reform and 6) Revitalizationof Tertiary
Ports. With the exception of Tertiary Ports, all other components will remain either
unchanged or minor adjustments of the same have no effect on tlie project's
environmentalrating and safeguardstriggered.

Tertia~yPorts: Improving tertiary port infrastructureand strengtheningrelated fluvial
transport services in the country is an important component of GOM's transport policy
and the Governmenthas been requestingthe Bank's assistance in that regard for a long
time. The Tertiary Ports (comprisingthe locationsof Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da
Praia, aid Pebane) componentwas contingent upon private sectorparticipation,which
could however not be achieved due to lack of investors' interest and/orunacceptable
terms offeredby the few parties that did express interest. This put in doubt the feasibility
of tl~einitiallytargeted locations. Consequentlythe GOM had to revise its strategy and
decided to shift effortsto strengthen fluvialtransportby rehabilitatingjetties at sites of
high socio-economic impact and replacing outdated ferryboats by modem and efficient
vessels in orderto increase access & mobility of the rural and urban poor. Dropping of
the TertiaryPort component has freed resources to meet the GOM's renewed request to
rehabilitatejetties at lcey locations and to support the strengtheningof Mozambique's
fluvial transport.

Thejetties that tlie GoM wishes to rehabilitatewith JDA funds are located at: Maputo,
Catembe, Inhambane,Maxixe, Quelimane and Recamba.Demand for passenger service
is strong, and the proposed investments yield high Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and
have a high positive social impact. The estimated cost forjetty rehabilitation and the
procurement of femes and vessels amounts to US$14 million.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis:

The Catembe-Maputo ferry currently comprises a fixedjetty and floatingpontoon
at each of the Catembe and Maputo terminals. Thejetty at the Maputo tenninal is
approximately80m in length and thejetty at the Caternbe terminal is approximately
lOOm in length. The distancebetween the two jetties which the ferryboat and smaller
passenger boats traverse across the Espirito SantosEstuary is 1,250m.

The terminal at Inhambane is located in the city of Inhambaneby the Bay of
Inhanlbane.The infrastructure of the Inliambane Port is a T-shapedjetty with a 289 m by
7.5 mjetty and an 115m by 11.5111 jetty front. Thejetty front had vertical and horizontal
(floating) timber fenders, of which none is left. The originaljetty was constructedin 1903
and had a total lengtli of 243m. It consisted of a timber declc supported on steel rail beams
supportedon mass concrete docks. In 1920thejetty was widened and extended.The
terminal in Inhambane was originallybuilt to export cotton and sisal (originated from
M~anime)and copper (&om Mutamba).The other infrastn~cturewithin the terminal area
includes a social center, offices and a cold storageroom that belongs to CFM as well as a
small photo shop. Thejetty in Maxixe is located in the City of Maxixe in Idlambane
Bay. The length of thejetty is 90m and the elevationof the declc of thejetty is 5.3 m. The

berthing of the passenger boats at low tides is now difficultand the passengers have to
jump from the boat to the stairs. Presentlythere are smallpassengerboats with a
maximum capacity of 20 to 25 passengers.

The Quelimane-Recambacrossingtraversesthe Bons Sinais 'Xiver". Thejetty at
Quelimane itself is not more than 60m in length and is mostly used for passengers
crossingmainly by small boats with a capacityof around 30. Thejetty in Quelimanewas
built before independencebut was partially rehabilitated in 2004. This ramp was
primarilybuilt to serve as a means to transport copra from the district of Inhassunge,
through the Recamba crossingramp. There areno other hkastructure facilitiessuch as
toilets or waiting rooms at the Quelimaneterminal. There is a makeshift ticketbooth at
the entrance. The terminal at Recambais the least developed. The concrete ramp is
obsolete and the ramp has subsidedinto the mud. There areno other fiastructure
facilities such as toilets, waitingrooms or ticket booths withinthe terminal area.

5. Environmental and Social SafeguardsSpecialists on the Team:

The environmental aspects of the project have been continuouslymonitoredby
EnvironmentalSpecialistRobert Robelus.




and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-SupportedProjects (OPISP


II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management

A. S~trrrrrzaryof Key Safeg~tnrrlIssrtes

1.Describeany safeguardissues and impacts associatedwith the proposed project.
Identify and describe anypotential large scale, significant andlor ifreversibleimpacts:

A s the project comprisesthe rehabilitationof existent infrastructure, no large scale,
significantor irreversibleimpacts are anticipated. Temporaryimpacts on the environment
and the localpopulation are expected during the rehabilitationworlcs. The EIA has
identifiedmitigationmeasures for all of them and the borrower will ensure their

applicationby incorporatingthem in the contractual agreementswith the rehabilitation
contractor(s).

The potential environmentalimpacts comprise: i) Soil and water contamination due to
bad management of waste, such as rubble, dust and sediment,produced from
infrastructure demolition. and /or renovation:.ii),Water oollution due to suoer and
infrastructure repairs onjetties and quays; iii) water poilution due to sedimentsand dust
resulting frompaving activities; iv) Soil and water contamination (and consequently
contaminationbf the marine/estuarine environment) due to bad management of fuels and
lubricantsand other residualwaste water; and v) Soil and water contamination (and
consequentlymangrove contamination) due to sewage from toilets.

Otherpotential environmental impacts comprise:i) Possibilitythat accidents and
fatalities may occur duringthe rehabilitationwork (falls, collisions,bums, etc); ii)
Contact with anti-corrosive products (e.g., SIKATOP ARMATEC 110EPOCEM) or
other products that can damage seriouslythe workers health, iii) noise pollution to nearby
neighborhoods; iv) Illnesses amongthe workers causedby fumes and dust duringthe
repaving; v) Disruption of localinformalmarket stalls around the project area; and vi)
Spread of diseases due to the sanitaryconditionin the local area as well as STDs and
HIV/AIDS.

However, there are a number of higher desirablepositive impacts of the project
including: enhancement of safetyand well being of passengers; increasedrate of
attendance at schools; increasedeconomic activities aroundthe rehabilitatedjetties; and
savingsin travel time of passengers.

2. Describe any potential indirect andlor long term impacts due to anticipated future
activitiesin the project area:

A potentialnegative impact may be the increase of litter and consequent the deterioration
of hygienic conditionsdue to the increased traffic volume.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) consideredto help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts:

Not applicable.

4. Describemeasures taken by the borrower to address safeguardpolicy issues.Provide
an assessment of borrower capacityto plan and implementthe measures described:

In the Environmental Impact Assessment that the Borrower had commissioned, all
environmentaland socialmitigationmeasures have been clearlyidentified. The Borrower
will require the rehabilitationcontractor(s) as well as any of his subcontractorsto
incorporate those in all of the contractual agreements.

5.Identifythe key stalceholders and describethe mechanismsfor consultation and
disclosureon safeguardpolicies, with an emphasis on potentially affectedpeople:

The EIA report will be disclosedto the public in the Bank's InfoShop and in country.




C. CorrzpliarrceMonitorirrg Irrdicators at tlie CorporateLevel (to bef l e d in ~vlzerrthe
ISDS isfillalized by tlieproject decisio~rrrreetirig)

OP/BP/4.01 - EnvironmentAssessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including       Yes [x ]         No[ 1         N/A [ 1
EMP) report?
If yes, then did the Regional EnvironmentUnit or Sector    Yes
Manager (SM) review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilitiesfor the EMF'          Yes
incorporated in the creditlloan?
OPEP 4.00-Hiioting the Use of Borrower Systems to iititiress Euvlrou~neniaianti Sociai
SafeguardIssues in Bank-SupportedProjects

(QACU) and the ESSD and International Law Practice
Group (LEGEN) review and approvethe Safeguard

referredto in the OP?                                   I
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguardpolicies documentsbeen sent to    Yes [x ]   No[ 1  NIA  1
the World Bank's Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosedin-countryin a     Yes
public place in a form and language that are
understandableand accessible to project-affected groups
and localNGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactorycalendar,budget and clear institutional Yes [ x ]  No[ 1  NIA [ 1
responsibilitiesbeen prepared for the implementation of
measuresrelated to safeguardpolicies?
Have costs related to safeguardpolicy measures been      Yes
included in the project cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the         Yes
project include the monitoringof safeguardimpacts and
measures related to safeguardpolicies?
Have satisfactoryimplementationarrangementsbeen          Yes
agreedwith the borrower and the samebeen adequately
reflected in the project legal documents?

D. Approvals

