                                 Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR00001118




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA3288A, IDA32880)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.8 MILLION
                 (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT AT APPRAISAL )

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                    FOR A

               RAILWAYS AND PORTS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT

                               December 28, 2009




Transport Unit
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2009)
                         Currency Unit = New Metical (MN)
                                SDR 1 = MN 15.80
                              US$1.00 = MN 26.65

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOT      Build, Operate, and Transfer
BRP      Beira Railways Project
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFM      Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique, E.P.
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      Environment Management Plan
EU       European Union
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMR      Financial Management Reports
GOM      Government of Mozambique
IDA      International Development Association
INAC     Instituto Nacional de Aviação Civil
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MTC      Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPV      Net Present Value
PAS      Project Account Section
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PMR      Project Management Report
PPP      Public Private Partnership
ROCS I   Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
RPRP     Railways and Ports Restructuring Project
SRSAP    Staff Redeployment and Social Adjustment Program
USA      United States of America
USAID    United States Agency for International Development

                          Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                        Country Director: Luiz Pereira Da Silva
                         Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                    Project Team Leader: Anil S. Bhandari
                       ICR Team Leader: Anil S. Bhandari
                     ICR Primary Author: Fang Xu
                                                 MOZAMBIQUE
                                      Railways and Ports Restructuring Project




                                                             CONTENTS

Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
  E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................iii
  H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................... vii
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.... 23
  Annex 1. Project Outputs, Costs and Financing ........................................................... 24
  Annex 2: Output by components .................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
  Annex 10. Additional Supporting Data ........................................................................ 45
A. Basic Information
                                                                          MZ-Railway & Port
Country:                Mozambique              Project Name:
                                                                          Restr (FY00)
Project ID:             P042039                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-32880,IDA-3288A
ICR Date:               12/29/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLICE OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                        XDR 73.8M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 73.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 73.8M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Transport and Communications
 Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique, E.P. (CFM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/18/1997     Effectiveness:                              03/28/2000
                                                                                 05/30/2007
Appraisal:            02/08/1999     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 06/07/2008
Approval:             10/14/1999     Mid-term Review:                            02/07/2003
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2005       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     14                  14
General public administration sector                                  19                  19
General transportation sector                                          9                   9
Ports, waterways and shipping                                         58                  58


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               20                  10
Decentralization                                                      20                  5
Improving labor markets                                               20                  70
Social safety nets                                                    20                  10
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 20                  5

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Luiz Pereira Da Silva                Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham               Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:       Anil S. Bhandari                     Yash Pal Kedia
ICR Team Leader:           Anil S. Bhandari
ICR Primary Author:        Fang Xu


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Objective is to substantially increase the operating efficiency of the three
major port-rail systems in Mozambique and enable them to increase their share of the


                                                ii
international freight traffic of the neighboring countries. The increased use of the port-
railway systems in Mozambique should enable: (a) the neighboring countries to reduce
the surface transport costs of their exports and imports resulting from use of shorter
routes, increased efficiency of operations, and use of railways in preference to roads; (b)
the ports and railways in Mozambique to move towards becoming financially self-
sustaining; (c) Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique, E.P. (CFM) to increase its
net income (net of its own expenses and provision for long-term infrastructure
replacements) and, consequently, be in a position to pay dividends to the Government of
Mozambique (GOM); and (d) Mozambique to generate more foreign exchange. A
related but equally important objective is to strengthen the transport sector policy, the
regulatory framework, and the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not changed during the restructuring.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target         Formally         Actual Value
                                            Values (from            Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval             Target        Completion or
                                             documents)             Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Staff rationalization. Reduced total staff at the end of the project
Value
                                         5,200 (14,000
quantitative or 19,200
                                         retrenched)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/14/1999                 06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Concessions operationalized
                a) Nacala Port and Railways
                b) Maputo Port
Indicator 2 : c) Beira Port Terminals
                d) Beira Railway System
                e) Ressano - Garsia Line
                f) Limpopo Line
                                         a) to d)
                                         concessioned and
                                         operational; e) and
                                         f) to be
Value                                    concessioned
quantitative or None                     jointly, however
Qualitative)                             only after
                                         rehabilitation of
                                         Ressano-Garcia
                                         line (process will
                                         take longer than



                                               iii
                                          remaining project
                                          period)
Date achieved 09/14/1999                  06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Increase in International traffic through ports and over the major railway systems
                Ports: 8.2 million tons in Ports: 10 million
Value
                2002                       tons
quantitative or
                Railways: 4.1 million      Railways: 7
Qualitative)
                tons in 2002               million tons
Date achieved 01/01/2003                   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : CFM restructured and Profitable
Value
                CFM making losses and CFM' cash balance
quantitative or
                in serious debt            positive
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Fluvial Transport improved at selected jetties
                                           Maputo:       3.40
                Annual traffic at:         million
Value
                Maputo:       1.90 million Inhambane: 0.70
quantitative or
                Inhambane: 0.57 million million
Qualitative)
                Quelimane: 0.36 million Quelimane: 0.63
                                           million
Date achieved 05/30/2007                   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                         Formally
                                         Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                        Revised
                                           approval                           Completion or
                                                       Target Values
                                          documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Transport Cost Study completed.
Value                                 Final report
(quantitative   None                  submitted to
or Qualitative)                       Government
Date achieved 12/01/2004              03/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %



                                               iv
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Ressano-Garcia Line rehabilitated and traffic improved
                Concession canceled and
Value                                   Rail Traffic
                traffic significantly
(quantitative                           increased to 4.25
                reduced (less than 2.0
or Qualitative)                         million tons
                million tons)
Date achieved 01/01/2005                 06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                          IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/05/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/20/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.92
  3     04/20/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.84
  4     12/20/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     5.09
  5     04/30/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   12.69
  6     10/01/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   24.47
  7     04/22/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   31.48
  8     10/22/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   34.42
  9     05/25/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   46.06
 10     11/16/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   56.01
 11     03/23/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   65.31
 12     08/29/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   68.01
 13     12/28/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   68.94
 14     06/22/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   78.43
 15     12/29/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   83.38
 16     06/27/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   94.69
 17     12/13/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   97.01
 18     06/26/2008           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            99.02
 19     12/23/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  105.08
 20     06/28/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  105.86


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                               Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/30/2007       N       S       S          93.11   Amendment to legal agreement



                                               v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     and reallocation of funds.
                                                     Changed circumstances in
 06/07/2008       N       S       S          98.70   country and need to enhance
                                                     developmental impact




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:

1.1. Context at Appraisal

1.      Introduction: Mozambique has enjoyed high economic growth since the mid
1990's; however, it remains one of the poorest countries in the world with a gross
domestic product (GDP) per capita of US$370 in 2008. A central pillar of the World
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mozambique called for promoting
dynamic growth that is sustainable and based broadly on a geographical, environmental,
and socio-economic viewpoint. The CAS also called for private sector led growth
including the development of local enterprises as well as partnership with foreign capital.
Along with continuing economic policy reforms, IDA, IFC, and MIGA were to combine
efforts in support of the development of high potential growth sectors, transport being
one such sector. Supporting the transport sector through the Railways and Ports
Restructuring Project (RPRP) was an important component of the CAS strategy. Given
their importance for the economy, successful concession of the Maputo, Beira, and
Nacala port-railway systems was included as one of the key base case indicators.

2.      The main issues in the transport sector were identified as follows: (a) the
Railways and Ports in Mozambique were not financially self-sustaining; (b) the Parastatal
Framework was inadequate for the business environment which was progressively
becoming more competitive; (c) the organizational structure of Portos e Caminhos de
Ferro de Mozambique, E.P. (CFM) was inappropriate to manage the changing nature of
the railways and ports industry; (d) the Regulatory Framework in the transport sector was
inadequate; (e) the analytical and decision making capacity of the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC) was weak; and (f) tertiary ports in Mozambique had an
important role to play but needed to be rehabilitated in order to be more efficient.

3.      The Government of Mozambique's (GOM) strategy to address the transport sector
issues, especially railways and ports, comprised: (a) a large scale involvement of the
private sector in the operations and management of all the major ports and railways in the
country; (b) entering into build, operate, and transfer (BOT) arrangements for railway
networks requiring major rehabilitation such as the Sena line; (c) comprehensive
restructuring of CFM including the retrenchment of surplus staff; (d) strengthening the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) by training staff, refining the
transport sector policy and establishing an appropriate regulatory framework for the
transport sector; and (e) rehabilitation of key tertiary ports and passenger jetties along
with the replacement of existing boats and ferries with modern ones. The original project
assisted the GOM/CFM in implementing all the elements of the strategy except for the
rehabilitation of passenger jetties and acquisition of new boats and ferries - items which
were included later at the time of restructuring.

1.2. Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators




                                            1
4.    According to the PAD and the DCA, the two Project Development Objectives
(PDOs) are as follows:

     (a) Increasing the operating efficiency of the Borrower's three major port-rail
         systems thus enabling the Borrower to increase its share of international freight
         traffic from neighboring countries; and
     (b) Strengthening the transport sector policy, the regulatory framework, and the
         institutional capacity of MTC.

5.      Key Indicators: There were originally one outcome and six output indicators.
The outcome indicator was: Increase the international traffic handled by the three major
ports to ten (10) million tons per year and by the three major railway systems to seven (7)
million tons per year.

6.       The six output indicators were:

     (a) CFM restructured and profitable with increase in its net income and,
         consequently, its ability to pay dividends to the GOM;
     (b) CFM Staff rationalized and total staff reduced by 13,000 by the end of the project;
     (c) Concessions for the three major ports and railways ­ (i) Nacala Port and
         Railways; ii) Beira Port Terminals and railway system; iii) Maputo Port and
         railways system (Ressano - Garcia Line and Limpopo Line) - finalized and
         operational;
     (d) MTC restructured;
     (e) Regulatory body established; and
     (f) Tertiary port rehabilitation completed.

1.3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
     Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

7.       There were no changes in the PDOs. However, the project was restructured in
2007, two new activities, rehabilitation of the Ressano-Garcia line and rehabilitation of
jetties, were added, and the component on rehabilitation of tertiary ports was dropped.
Along with these changes: (i) two new intermediate indicators were introduced; (a)
rehabilitation and traffic improvement of the Ressano-Garcia line; and (b) improvement
of fluvial transport at selected jetties; and (ii) one output indicator pertaining to the
rehabilitation of tertiary ports was dropped.

1.4. Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)

8.     The main beneficiaries comprised all users of the rail and port systems as well as
the general population who would benefit from more reliable rail and port operations and
lower effective transport costs in Mozambique, specifically the following: (a) users of
railway and port systems in Mozambique; (b) the neighboring countries of Zimbabwe,
South Africa, Swaziland, Malawi, and Zambia; (c) industry supplying materials to
railways and ports; (d) the GOM in general and MTC in particular; and (e) public sector



                                              2
entities such as CFM. Adding fluvial transport component in the project also introduced a
new group of beneficiaries, such as, the passengers using ferry services (mainly low
income groups including vendors, women and children) in Inhambane, Maxixe, Maputo
and Catembe who benefitted from reduced coastal transport costs and safer operations.

1.5. Original Components Supported by the Project

9.     The project originally comprised of the six following components (summarized
from the DCA).

10.     Component One - Concession of CFM major Ports and Railways (original
allocation US$1.0 million; Actual cost US$1.81 million). This component was to: (a)
strengthen the operational capabilities of CFM through technical advisory services to
manage the concessioning process of Nacala, Beira and Maputo port and railway
systems, and (b) provide financial support for any activities essential for the
concessioning process.

11.     Component Two - Staff Rationalization (original allocation US$73.5million;
Actual cost US$77.8 million). This component was to assist CFM: (a) to carry out a
program for the reduction of staff of CFM through retrenchment or early retirement,
including support for the payment of negotiated and statutory severance payments; (b) to
carry out a program of redeployment of said redundant CFM staff including counseling
and training services; (c) to carry out a program to mitigate the adverse social impact of
staff redundancy and rationalization, consistent with the Social Mitigation Plan; (d) to
establish and operate a pension fund; (e) develop a system for the dissemination of
information on a regular basis regarding the issues pertaining to its restructuring in
general and staff rationalization program in particular; and (f) with related technical
advisory services and limited amount of critical equipment.

12.     Component Three - CFM Corporate Restructuring (original allocation US$2.6
million; Actual cost US$0.96 million). This component was to: (a) finance a study for
creating a number of holding and subsidiary companies to take over some of the
functions of CFM, and for establishing a technical regulatory unit within CFM; and (b)
provide related technical advisory services and office equipment.

13.    Component Four - Strengthening of MTC (original allocation US$1.7 million;
Actual cost US$4.39 million). This component was to: (a) carry out a study to review the
transport policy framework and the legal and institutional framework for concessions; (b)
define the new functions of MTC, assess its organizational structure and staffing
requirements - taking into account the Borrower's civil service reform program; and (c)
provide technical advisory services;

14.    Component Five - Regulatory Framework (original allocation US$7.2 million;
Actual expenditure US$0.90 million). This component was to: (a) carry out a study to
review the options of setting up a regulatory body for either the railway sector or the
transport sector and provide detailed design and structure of the accepted option; and (b)
provide the equipment and technical advisory services for the launching of the new


                                            3
regulatory agency for supporting the functioning of the agency for an initial period of
three to five years.

15.     Component Six - Tertiary Port Rehabilitation (original allocation US$9.0
million, Actual expenditure US$0). This component was to: (a) assist MTC in carrying
out a program of rehabilitation of the small ports of Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa da
Praia, and Pebane; and (b) provide technical advisory services for the supervision of the
civil works in the said four ports, and the preparation of a study on the revitalization of
the Inhambane Port.

1.6. Revised Components

16.      In 2007 the project was restructured to make the following changes:

      (a) Dropping the tertiary ports rehabilitation component. (Original allocation
           US$9 million; Actual cost US$0). Only one study pertaining to the Inhambane
           region and some technical assistance for the development of the port serving the
           region were retained and implemented by MTC;
      (b) Introduction of a new component for the rehabilitation of key passenger jetties
           and purchase of new boats and ferries (Estimated cost - US$15.0 million, Actual
           cost US$8.78 million). A component comprising the rehabilitation of key jetties
           used for ferry services (passenger and minor cargo) in Maputo, Catembe,
           Inhambane, Maxixe; the study and engineering design for the rehabilitation of
           the Quelimane-Recamba wharfs; and procurement of new ferries and other
           vessels for water transport was introduced with a view to strengthening
           Mozambique's fluvial transport; and
       (c) Introduction of a new Sub-component for the rehabilitation of the Ressano-
           Garcia line (estimated cost - US$20 million, IDA allocation US$6.4 million, IDA
           Actual cost US$5.96 million). A sub-component comprising the rehabilitation of
           the Ressano-Garcia line as well as technical services to supervise the
           rehabilitation works was introduced with a view to making the line more
           efficient and reliable.

17.   Justification for the changes made at restructuring. The justifications for the
changes were as follows:

      (a) Dropping the tertiary ports rehabilitation component: This sub-project had been
          under the spotlight since 1991, when it was first included as a component of the
          Road and Coastal Shipping Project but could not be implemented due to the need
          for diverting funds for urgent road rehabilitation. When RPRP was being
          prepared, the Government requested and the Bank Management agreed to
          consider its inclusion in the RPRP. The reappraisal and other government studies
          found this component to be economically feasible but since the dominant theme
          of RPRP was private participation in the management of the major railways and
          ports in the country, the proposed investment of this component was also linked to
          the successful concessioning of the said tertiary ports, more so because there was



                                              4
       no satisfactory institutional arrangement for their operation and management.
       However, these ports could not be concessioned due to inadequate private sector
       interest and due to the rehabilitation of the road network which reduced the
       relevance of river transport. Consequently the importance and viability of the
       tertiary ports declined dramatically.        After considerable discussion, the
       Government agreed that the rehabilitation could be postponed until there was
       better growth in the region and until there was renewed interest in the use of these
       ports such that the dropping of this component prevented sub-optimal use of
       scarce funds.

   (b) Rehabilitation of passenger jetties and acquisition of new vessels. This
       component was introduced at the request of the GOM and on the basis of a strong
       demand for ferry services, of the severe deterioration in the condition of the
       existing jetties and vessels, of the high economic rate of return of the proposed
       investment at an estimated cost of US$14 million, and its impact on poverty
       reduction.

   (c) Rehabilitation of the Ressano-Garcia line. This task was initially expected to be
       undertaken by the concessionaire as part of the concession of the Ressano-Garcia
       railway line (a part of the Maputo rail system). Subsequent to its cancellation,
       CFM and the South African Railways agreed on an interim strategy to increase
       the use of the line for traffic originating and terminating in the north-eastern part
       of South Africa. The strategy required that the line be rehabilitated by CFM to
       acceptable standards to enable the safe and efficient operation of longer trains.
       The rehabilitation was estimated at about US$20 million and since the tertiary
       ports rehabilitation was dropped, it was proposed that part of the rail line
       rehabilitation cost (US$5 million) be met from the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
       The Credit was to support: (i) procurement of rails for the rehabilitation of the
       line; and (ii) independent supervision of rehabilitation to ensure quality.

1.7. Other significant changes

18.     Extension of Closing Date. The closing date of the project was extended four
times as follows: (a) The first extension: In May 2005, the project was extended by 18
months from June 2005 to December 2006, to: (i) complete the retrenchment and social
mitigation activities flowing from the concession of the railway and ports systems; (ii)
complete CFM corporate restructuring; and (iii) reach an agreement for the concessioning
of the Limpopo and Goba lines, which were partly closed during the floods in February
and March 2000 and whose rehabilitation was only completed in October 2004. Another
rationale for the extension was to keep the Bank involved as coordinator in the
increasingly sensitive dialogue between the Government and the concessionaires. (b)
The second extension: In December 2006 an interim extension from December 31, 2006
to May 31 2007 was granted to allow preparation of the Environmental Impact
Assessment for the new jetty rehabilitation component which was introduced as part of
the restructuring to take into account country realities ­i.e. accommodate the
Government's urgent request to strengthen the fluvial transport system within the



                                            5
country; (c) The third extension: In May 2007, the project was restructured including
the extension of the closing date by 13 months from May 31, 2007 to June 30, 2008 to
accommodate the dropping of the Tertiary Ports component and the introduction of the
new components, namely, the rehabilitation of the jetties, acquisition of ferries and
passenger boats, and the rehabilitation of the Ressano-Garcia railway line. The latter was
in line with a government strategy to rehabilitate this line to acceptable standards which
was absolutely essential to re-gaining customers' confidence after the concession failed.
These changes required amendments in the DCA and reallocation of credit proceeds; and
(d) The fourth and final extension by 12 months from June 30, 2008 to June 30, 2009
was made necessary to fine-tune the remaining activities and to reallocate the funds to
complete: (i) the rehabilitation of jetties and delivery of ferries and boats; (ii) the
extension of consultancy services pertaining to the Maritime Sector's legal and regulatory
framework; (iii) the establishment of a sustainable management of fluvial passenger and
cargo transport system with Transmaritima, Lda; (iv) establishment of a unit within the
Ministry of Transport and communications to monitor compliance with concession
agreements and (e) complete the studies of the competitiveness of Maputo as a regional
port and the analysis of coal transport on the Beira Railway.

19.     By the initial closing date of June 30, 2005, about 70% of the credit had been
disbursed and the CFM component was nearly completed, that is, all major ports and
railways (except for the Maputo railway system) had been concessioned and the CFM
staff had been reduced by about 70%. By December 31, 2006 (the first extension), major
originally planned activities including the concession of the port-railway system, staff
retrenchment, CFM restructuring and MTC strengthening had been completed and
disbursements stood at 80%. By June 2007, about 95% of the credit had been disbursed.
The project could have been closed at the original closing date and certainly by the end of
June 2007. However, it was strongly felt that the use of the remaining small amount of
credit and the Bank's continuing involvement could effectively ensure outcomes far
greater than envisaged under the Project, viz., improving the fluvial passenger transport,
laying the basis for catalyzing the development corridors, and rehabilitating the Maputo
rail system after the collapse of the concession. The benefit/cost ratio was considered
enormous compared to the options of leaving these issues as they were or starting a new
project to address them.

20.     Amendment of Development Credit Agreement (DCA). There were three
reallocations of credit proceeds. The first one, in 2004 was to increase funds for: (i)
Category 2 ­ Goods by SDR6.39 million and (ii) Category 5 (b) - Severance Pay by
SDR13.56 million (Schedule 1 of the DCA). Regarding item (i), delays in the
concessioning of the Nacala and Maputo Port railway systems made it necessary for
CFM to continue the maintenance of the above mentioned systems and to acquire
essential maintenance equipment, which otherwise would have been the responsibility of
the concessionaire. Regarding item (ii), at the project design stage it was difficult to
correctly anticipate the number of staff that would become redundant, the timeframe in
which these redundancies would take place, the exchange rate during the project
implementation period, and the inflation rate which would trigger the wage increases.
The second amendment (to Schedule 2 of the DCA) was made in 2007 due to the



                                            6
restructuring of the Project, and the third and last amendment was made in 2008, at
which time the extension of the credit closing date was to fine-tune final expenditure
estimates for the remaining activities and reallocate funds under Schedule 1. However,
the components remained unchanged.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

21.     Project preparation was conducted between 1997 and 1999. The operation was
complex and it took close to two years to finalize the project design and bring the project
to the Board because the team placed considerable emphasis on consensus building and
ownership by discussing all options with GOM, CFM management and staff, staff
unions, and other interested parties. The Project demonstrated very good understanding
of the background, technical context, and political environment, and included taking
calculated risks by proposing to undertake the following challenging tasks. First, private
concessioning of the railways and ports was included as the cornerstone of the Project
even though there was considerable skepticism in most countries in Africa regarding
private participation in key public utilities. Second, to facilitate privatization and reduce
operating costs, extensive staff retrenchment was advocated even as the Bank had just
started to finance staff retrenchments - politically a sensitive issue with considerable
reputational risk for the Bank. Third, CFM was an old bureaucratic institution and its
restructuring to become a business and commercially-oriented entity involved major and
difficult changes in the organizational structure (i.e. staffing, management system,
attitude and culture). Fourth, restructuring and strengthening of MTC and facilitating a
decision to introduce a regulatory framework for railways and ports involved major
consensus building efforts. In spite of the complexity of these issues, the Project
undertook to implement reforms that were critical for making the ports and railway
systems more efficient and financially self-sustaining in the long-run.

22.      Assessment of Project design. This project had incorporated the lessons learned
from previous operations and the reality on the ground. The project design was
comprehensive and in line with the prevailing government policies. The main lesson
incorporated was that improving only the infrastructure would not bring efficiency to the
port and railway systems and key institutional changes including private sector
involvement in the management and operation of the systems was essential to improve
service delivery. Hence the Project was designed to focus on concession of the railway-
port systems, retrenchment of surplus staff and the restructuring of CFM (these
comprising close to 80 percent of the project funding). The staff retrenchment package
was well designed and included counseling, training and financial services for the
affected staff that allowed a smooth retrenchment process and a useful post-retrenchment
life for the affected staff.

23.     The project had only one outcome indicator, namely, the increase in aggregate
freight traffic. Though this indicator implied increase in operational efficiency and
customer-based initiatives as these are essential for increasing traffic, this is probably not



                                              7
the most appropriate indicator for the increased port-railway efficiency because this
target is dependent on exogenous factors, i.e. competition from the road sector, decisions
and economic situation of the neighboring countries. An indicator like this could not be
depended on to identify the causes of any shortfall in the achievement of the target. Other
related key indicators pertaining to CFM restructuring, the staff retrenchment, the
concessioning of the port and railway systems constituted output rather than outcome
indicators. Regarding the second PDO, output indicators like MTC restructuring and the
establishment of a regulatory body were specified as outcome indicators.

24.      Assessment of risks: Most of the critical risks were identified and mitigation
measures were prepared. For example, the concession agreements were structured to
reduce the risk of low level of private interest in railway concessions by including a 40
percent shareholding by CFM, allowing concessionaires a free hand in setting tariff rates
in accordance with market conditions, proving fiscal incentives and tax holidays in the
initial years, and so on. The team also mitigated the risk of wasteful investment by
linking the rehabilitation of tertiary ports to private concessioning. However, the team
could not anticipate the speed and severity of Zimbabwe's economic and political crisis,
which was outside of the project's control but adversely affected the railway freight
traffic in Mozambique. The Project could not anticipate the decline of the South African
Railways and its revised strategy to take limited interest in railway concessions in the
region, which adversely impacted the concession of the Ressano-Garcia railways.
Nevertheless, despite recognition of the low level of private sector interest in railway
concessions in Africa, the Bank and GoM were rather optimistic about the timetable for
concessioning which took much longer than anticipated.

2.2 Implementation Delays

25.     The Project was approved in October 1999 and the Credit became effective in
March 2000, but effective disbursements only started by the end of 2002. Shortly after
the start of activities, the Project faced two major unexpected challenges which affected
the disbursement rate and threatened the realization of Project outputs, namely: (a) the
processing period for concessioning; and (b) excessive time required to get the
implementation and monitoring arrangements in place for retrenchment. Furthermore, it
was originally agreed that staff retrenchment was to start only after the successful
conclusion of the concessions so that the people not selected by the concessionaire would
be declared redundant. Since the concessioning was taking longer than expected, the
retrenchment was further delayed. Against this backdrop, in agreement with GOM and
CFM, a new rule for identifying surplus staff was developed to commence the
retrenchment even as the concessioning process was underway.

26.    Implementation constraints. There were a few setbacks during the
implementation period, many of which were beyond the control of the GOM or CFM
which led to delays in the concessioning process and to the eventual collapse of the
Maputo railway concessions, namely: (a) the Limpopo line was heavily damaged due to
floods and needed rehabilitation, the concession collapsed as a result (after the
concessionaire abandoned the concession) and the effort of many years was lost; (b) the
concession for the Ressano-Garcia line collapsed when South Africa Railways, a key


                                            8
partner of the concession consortium, pulled out of the concession due to a change in its
strategy as it decided to focus on revitalizing its own railway system even as the
concession negotiations were close to being finalized. As a result, the remaining partners
were reluctant to continue the negotiation without South African Railways' participation
given that most of the traffic on this line was originating from South Africa; and (c) the
concession for the port of Maputo was delayed because the selected concessionaire
refused to sign the concession agreement until the Ressano-Garcia line, the feeding line
for the port, was also successfully concessioned. The port concession became operational
eventually, with GoM's assurances to rehabilitate the Ressano-Garcia line, but this took
much longer.

27.     The GOM and the Project team responded to the unexpected challenges by
measures including but not limited to: (a) coordinating with the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) to finance and monitor the rehabilitation of the
Limpopo line; and (b) supporting the rehabilitation of the Ressano-Garcia line with
financing from CFM and IDA.

28.     Consequent to the above developments, the following decisions were taken: (a)
dropping the tertiary ports rehabilitation and introducing the new component, namely,
improvement of fluvial transport in order to increase access and mobility of the rural and
urban poor; (b) launching a new Beira Railways Project with provisions for a BOT type
concession on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) basis when it became clear that the
Beira railway system could not be concessioned without GOM supporting a substantial
part of the large investments required for the rehabilitation of the Sena line; and (c)
reaching an agreement with MTC for setting up a concession monitoring unit within
MTC instead of establishing an independent regulatory body or continuing with the
current arrangement of CFM monitoring the concessions. The project had four extensions
of the closing date and took 9 years to implement instead of the planned 5 years. As
explained in Paragraph 18 and section 2.2, the extensions were sought to respond to the
changing business and economic environment and to maximize the benefits of the
Project.


2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     M&E Design: The M&E framework specified the outcome, the intermediate and
output indicators for the project components. The M&E framework also outlined
appropriate methods to review the progress of these indicators. These methods included
quarterly reports, disbursements for retrenchment, Bank supervision missions, frequent
telephonic conversations, faxes, e-mails, and discussions with transaction consultants.
However, as has been discussed in the project design section (section 2.1), the outcome
indicators could have been more detailed to fully reflect the PDOs.

30.    Implementation and utilization: Both CFM and MTC maintained the M&E
system satisfactorily. They were able to track regularly the evolution of output indicators
through supervision and quarterly reports. Monitoring was further enhanced by TA



                                            9
experts engaged under the project to conduct frequent reviews. M&E data was
extensively utilized during implementation and remedial actions were taken where
necessary. When the project was restructured, two new intermediate indicators were
added to the M&E framework to better monitor the attainment of project objectives.

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

31.     Environment. The environmental category of the project was rated as `B' at
project appraisal. An environment assessment was conducted, and an environment
management plan was prepared taking into account the safety and environment-related
regulations included in Mozambique's transport sector policy and railways-related
legislation. The concession agreements included adequate provisions for minimizing
environmental degradation and recommendations were implemented during supervisions.
In addition, CFM created an environment unit with staff to focus on any emerging
environmental issues. At the time of restructuring, an additional environmental impact
assessment was done for the proposed rehabilitation works for the jetties and mitigation
measures were included in the civil works contracts. Ratings were assessed as
satisfactory during implementation.

32.     Financial Management: Overall, the FM system in place was rated satisfactory.
The quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were received regularly and were
fully compliant with the agreed formats. Audit reports were done annually and on a
timely basis, and were unqualified except in 2005. The auditors had issued a qualified
opinion on MTC. The Borrower and the Bank's Financial Management Specialist
worked out an action plan to remedy the issues as per the auditor's recommendations.
Since then, all major issues have been resolved and Bank procedures were followed.
Strict control of the utilization of funds was maintained through: (a) ring-fencing of IDA
funds; (b) a dedicated account was maintained for severance payments to which funds
were transferred only after the severance payments, computed using a certified and
secure software, were certified by independent auditors engaged for that purpose; (c) the
dedicated accounts were specially audited and reimbursement was made on submission
of all previous expenditures; (d) a special account was maintained in the PMU created in
the MTC; and (e) all expenditures incurred below the prior-review threshold were
regularly reviewed both by the project team as well as the independent auditors.

33.     Counterpart funding: The commitment of the GOM remained strong
throughout the Project. GOM fulfilled its obligation (US$20 million) upfront at project
start. The only negative factor was the significant depreciation of the Metical (national
currency) vis-à-vis the US$, resulting in a shortfall of US$4 million, which lowered the
actual government contribution to US$16 million at the end of the project. Also CFM,
one of the implementing agencies, contributed an additional US$8.7 million to the
project, specifically toward the staff rationalization component to cover severance
payments.

34.    Procurement: Procurement under the project was also satisfactory. All contracts
for goods, works, consultancy and other services followed the agreed procedures without



                                           10
any exception. No formal protests were lodged against the procurement decisions, except
in the case of the procurement of ferries and boats. A complaint lodged by an individual
was investigated by INT which found no evidence of any wrong-doing in the process.
Another complaint by the sub-contractor (manufacturer) to the supplier of the ferries and
boats is deemed to be an internal issue between the supplier and the manufacturer and has
been brought to the attention of the Borrower to handle as appropriate. All prior-review
thresholds were followed.

2.5. Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

35.     The current arrangements are expected to ensure sustainability of port and railway
performance as well as the maintenance of the infrastructure in reasonable condition,
especially the following: (a) Nacala, Beira, and Maputo ports and Nacala and Beira
railway systems which are under long-term concessions. The concessionaires are
expected to respond to the market better and keep the system efficient and competitive
and are expected to remain geared to meet all traffic needs subsequent to the resumption
of economic growth of the neighboring countries.; (b) CFM has established a special unit
internally to keep track of the performance of the concessions and evolving issues in all
these concessions and take timely action wherever required. (c) The Government has
obtained funding from a Spanish Trust Fund to set up the concession monitoring unit
within MTC to take-over the role of monitoring compliance of various concessions to
agreed provisions in the contracts, especially performance standards; and (d) CFM
maintains its ultimate responsibility for the development of ports and railways in
Mozambique and its profitable financial status after restructuring will provide resources
for carrying out such responsibility. In addition, given the strategic importance of the
Nacala Corridor for landlocked neighbors, such as Malawi and Zambia, the AfDB, JICA
and the World Bank are collaborating to review the corridor (Roads and Rail) to assess
any further support needed to upgrade the transport infrastructure in that corridor.

36.     For the unconcessioned Maputo railway system, CFM intends to further improve
its performance and then consider alternative arrangements to operate and manage that
line in the long run. In the interim, CFM is negotiating an operations agreement with
South African Railways for the Ressano-Garcia Line which will ensure sustained traffic
increase.

37.     The Beira Railways Project (BRP) has been concessioned under a long-term BOT
arrangement, which is expected to ensure orderly development of the system, particularly
for transporting the coal from the Moatize coal mines that have been concessioned to the
private sector, such as Vale from Brazil and Riversdale from Australia.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation




                                           11
38.    The relevance of objectives, design and implementation is rated as substantial
because: (i) the PDOs are relevant and consistent with the CAS and the policies of the
Government, particularly in reference to private sector involvement; (ii) the design and
the implementation arrangements were clearly centered on achieving project
development objectives through concessioning of major ports and railways which is
expected to result in improved operating efficiency and consequently increased traffic.

39.     The project design was comprehensive and aimed at supporting all actions for the
creation of an enabling environment for the successful concessioning of the ports and
railways and for improving their performance within Mozambique. The implementation
effort remained focused on achieving the PDOs and appropriate adjustments were made
when the environment and needs of the economy changed.

40.     As mentioned in section 2.1, the design to a certain extent was somewhat
ambitious and complex especially with regard to the concessioning of three major port
and railway systems and retrenchment of close to 14,000 staff in the context that was
prevailing in 1999 in Mozambique. Some activities such as the proposed pension study
and tertiary ports rehabilitation, though important, were eventually dropped for the
reasons explained earlier. Nevertheless, the dropping of these components did not
diminish the possibility of achieving the PDOs

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

41.     The overall PDO rating is Satisfactory. The project has two PDOs: (i)
increasing the operating efficiency of Mozambique's three major port-railway systems;
and (ii) strengthening transport policy, the regulatory framework and capacity of MTC.
The first PDO is rated satisfactory. On completion of the project, the efficiency of the
port-railway system has been increased as measured by indicators like traffic, staff
productivity and turnaround time. The second PDO is rated moderately satisfactory
because it has been achieved only partially. The transport policy framework is in place; a
separate regulatory body is not set up but instead the Government has decided to set up a
concession monitoring unit within MTC; the institutional capacity of MTC has been
sufficiently strengthened to enable it to take on many responsibilities that it was not
adequately capable of doing before, such as, leading concession negotiations, planning
large scale infrastructure projects on its own and preparing a national transport policy.
Given that more than 70% of the IDA credit went to the first PDO related activities, the
rating of first PDO is granted more weight, such that the weighted overall PDO
achievement is rated satisfactory. The detailed evaluation of individual PDOs is as
follows:

42.     Project Development Objective 1: Increasing the operating efficiency of the
Borrower's three major port-rail systems thus enabling Mozambique to increase its share
of the international freight traffic from the neighboring countries.




                                           12
43.     This PDO is rated satisfactory because the project has substantially improved the
operating efficiency of the three major port-railway systems. The increased efficiency is
reflected by the various indicators summarized in Table 1.


Table 1: Railways and Ports Productivity Indicators

                                  Unit             1999       2000        2005          2006        2007      2008
Rail Traffic (tons)            million          3,960.8    3,454.2     4,059.0       4,002.6     3,822.4   4,351.9
Net ton-km (NTKM)              million            721.2      604.8       767.0         775.1       736.3     694.8
Passenger kms (PKM)            million            144.8      129.8       283.7         346.7       106.3     113.6
Total traffic units            million            866.0      734.6      1050.7       1121.8        842.6     848.4
(NTKM+PKM)
Rail staff                     Numbers          10620*       10460        1801         1909      1962**    2021**
Staff Productivity             Traffic              82          70         583          588         429       400
                               units
                               (000)/staff
Port Staff                     Numbers           6791*        4573       1414          1401      1519**    1627**
Port Traffic (tons)            million            6.89         6.73      10.89         11.43      11.09     11.34
Staff Productivity (All)       Tons               1.02         1.47        7.7          8.16       7.30      6.97
                               (000)/staff
  Data source: CFM report
* Excludes staff engaged by CFM in other than rail and port activities
** Staff numbers increased since 2007 because concessionaires recruited additional staff. Such increase
should be taken into account for computing productivity but not for computing staff retrenchment.

44.     The port traffic in 2008 was 11.3 million tons, exceeding the target of 10 million
tons. The rail traffic in 2008 was 4.3 million tons compared to 3.4 million tons in 2000
but is short of the target of 7.0 million tons (freight traffic in NTKM in 2008 was
marginally less than that in 1999 mainly due to reduction in long-haul traffic from
Zimbabwe). The railway traffic did not increase as expected due to various reasons, most
of which were outside of the borrower's control: (a) Beira railway - the downturn of
Zimbabwe's economy and dysfunction of Zimbabwe's railway system have affected the
traffic of Machipanda line and the incomplete rehabilitation of Sena line, which is non-
operational; (b) Maputo railway - the low traffic is partly due to the downturn of
Zimbabwe's economy and partly due to the failure of the concessions and the need to
rehabilitate the Ressano-Garcia line by CFM, which has only recently been completed;
(iii) Nacala railway - poor performance of the concessionaire who has made inadequate
infrastructural and rolling stock investments and does not have a competent railway
operator on the ground.

45.     Staff Productivity in the railways and ports has increased five and seven fold
respectively. The productivity increase was mainly due to fewer staff working for the
ports and railways and more traffic in the ports as a result of the project. Key indicators
of operating efficiency in the ports and railways also improved as indicated in Table 2
below:




                                                   13
Table 2: Indicators of Ports and Railways Operating Efficiency

Ports          Ships      calling   on Tons/ship/day          TEUs/ship/day
               ports
1999           1353                      2280                 207
2008           1574                      3658                 297
% increase     16                        16                   43

Railways       Wagon turnaround          Derailments Locomotive reliability           Comment
               time

Unit           Days                      Number        Mean Kilometers between
                                                       failure
1999           7.3                       326           <10,000                        Not
                                                                                      tracked by
                                                                                      CFM but
                                                                                      is an
                                                                                      estimate
2008           5.4                       167           >30,000                        Only for
                                                                                      CCFB
%              27                        50
improvement
Data source: CFM report

46.    The achievement of the first PDO can also be collectively measured by the
achievement of individual components:

47.     Component One: Concessioning of CFM Ports and Railways is rated as
satisfactory. All the three major ports, Nacala, Maputo, and Beira, and two out of the
three railway systems, Nacala and Beira, have been concessioned and the concessions are
operational. Details are given in Table 3 below. The Maputo rail system has not been
concessioned as the concessions broke down for reasons beyond the control of
CFM/GOM and as explained in detail in section 2.2, Para 26.

Table 3: Major Concessions in Operation

System                       Concessionaire        Takeover Date         Term(years)
Port of Beira (General       Cornelder             December 2001                 25
Cargo, Container
Terminals)
Port of Maputo               MPDC                  April 2003                    15
Nacala Rail                  CDN                   January 2005                  15
Nacala Port                  CDN                   January 2005                  15
Beira Rail                   CCFB                  December 2004                 25
Port of Quelimane            Cornelder             March 2005                    25

48.    Component Two: Staff rationalization is rated as highly satisfactory. i) A
total of 14,800 staff was retrenched/retired (exceeding the target of 13,000), and
successfully received severance payments and other benefits through the proceeds of the


                                                  14
Credit; ii) In addition to the retrenchment, about 1800 people were transferred to various
concessionaries and 1200 left through natural transition that reduced the permanent staff
of CFM from about 19, 400 at the end of 1998 to 1,600 with CFM and 1800 with
concessionaires at the end of June 2009. (iii) Out of the 14,800 retrenched staff, 12,378
received counseling service and 6,121 received various training and financial services, to
ensure a smooth retrenchment process and equip them with technical and managerial
skills and readiness to exploit new formal or self employment opportunities; iv) Close to
7,000 staff were self-employed among which 900 created small-scale businesses that
hired another 800 people, 553 established 46 associations in agriculture, tailoring,
mechanics, poultry and bakery business, etc. In addition, 557 found new formal
employment in the economy.

49.     Component Three: Corporate Restructuring of CFM is rated as moderately
satisfactory. CFM is now leaner with about 1,600 staff compared to a little more than
19,000 at the beginning of the project; with regard to financial status, CFM, which was
unprofitable before the project, registered an operating surplus of more than US$50
million per year for the last four years (more than $80 million in 2009). However, a
separate holding company was not established as planned, due in part to complex legal
requirements and in part to the lack of obvious profitability. Yet special units have been
established for monitoring CFM's equity and interests in various concessions, joint
ventures and partnerships, monitoring safety and operational requirements and rules, and
strategy development; So far, CFM has not paid dividends to GOM because: (i) CFM has
not yet reached an agreement with GOM on a dividend policy though the efforts to refine
a "performance contract" are on-going and will include a policy on the disposal of
surplus income; and (ii) CFM is keen to build a reserve for carrying out urgent repairs of
the port and railway infrastructure if damaged as a consequence of "force majeure".

50.     Project Development Objective 2: Strengthening of the transport sector policy,
the regulatory framework, and the institutional capacity of MTC.

51.      This second PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory given the fact that the
institutional capacity of MTC has been strengthened but a self-standing regulatory body
has not been set up (see Para. 54). The achievements of the PDO's related components
are evaluated as follows:

52.     Component Four: The strengthening of MTC is rated as moderately
satisfactory. Activities under this component include: organizational reform and
restructuring of MTC, preparation of an initial strategic plan, completion of seven critical
studies, training of staff in various disciplines, and computerization of MTC. The
completion of these activities has led to the increase in the knowledge base of the
Ministry, enhancing the capacity of staff and increasing its overall efficiency and
confidence. As mentioned earlier, MTC is assuming more responsibilities than before,
such as, evaluating bids for concessions, leading concession negotiations, planning large
scale infrastructure projects and preparing annual development strategy.




                                            15
53.      Yet, there are some pending issues under this component that will require further
attention: (a) while the structure of the ministry has been simplified, the new structure has
still to be effectively functional. For example, the Economy and Investment directorate is
not yet making comprehensive analysis of the investment proposals of the various
companies under its control; (b) in spite of substantial training of staff, particularly in the
economics discipline, there remains a need for developing more practical skills; and (c)
the Strategic Plan needs to be refined to be more pragmatic and to focus on core values
which also need to be defined more clearly. Overall, however, it would seem that greater
effort could have been put into the institutional strengthening component (MTC) so that
the second PDO (institutional strengthening) could have been achieved to a greater
extent.


54.     Component Five: The Regulatory Framework is moderately unsatisfactory.
During project preparation, the Government agreed to carry out an independent study in
two phases: (i) reviewing all the options of setting up a self-standing regulatory body; and
(ii) a detailed design and structure for the selected option. Funds were allocated for the
implementation of the selected option so that the establishment of the regulatory body
would not suffer from lack of funding. However, the study did not provide clear
recommendations and the market competition proved to be quite effective (the railway
concessionaires have not increased railway tariff since the systems were concessioned).
In addition, a self-standing regulatory body was found to be too costly for a small railway
sector. The Government decided to wait and the Bank agreed with the decision. Instead,
it was decided that a concession monitoring unit be established within MTC under the
assistance of a Spanish Trust Fund. The main function of the unit would be to ensure that
CFM and the concessionaires live up to their respective obligations under the concession
contracts. The unit could be converted into a self-standing regulatory body later when
justified.

55.     New Component Six: Rehabilitation of Key Jetties at selected locations and
provision of ferries and boats is rated satisfactory. The rehabilitation of jetties used for
ferry services at Inhambane, Maxixe, Maputo and Catembe, as well as the study and
engineering design for Quelimane-Recamba wharfs were completed. In total, six ferries
and boats were acquired and put into use - one ferry in Maputo-Catembe, two passenger
boats in Inhambane-Maxixe, one boat in Beira-Buzi, one sea-faring boat in Beira-
Machanga and one ferry in Quelimane-Recamba. These transport services were highly
rated in terms of satisfaction by the users - faster, safer and more comfortable service for
passengers compared to the old slippery jetties and the small boats which could only ship
10 to 12 passengers, often without any cover or roof. The new boats (2 catamarans) have
the capacity of accommodating 100 passengers and 2 tons of cargo; the two smaller
ferries can carry, respectively, 58 passengers plus 10 tons and 90 passengers plus 2 pick-
ups and 10 motorcycles. The larger ferry, operating at Maputo carries 293 passengers
plus 4 trucks and 10 cars. Due to the improved ferry services, more local people are
crossing the river either for school, work or for market opportunities which result in more
exchange of economic activities between the two sides of the waterways (Annex 5).




                                              16
3.3. Efficiency

56.     Improving the efficiency of port and railway system is rated satisfactory.
The port and railway systems are now on track to provide better service in order to
maximize their share of traffic and consequently profits. Actual freight traffic handled by
the ports has exceeded the target. The freight traffic handled by the railways did not
reach the target for reasons indicated in section 3.2., but the basic fundamentals exist for
handling the increased traffic as soon as the economic situation of the neighboring
countries improves. Table 1 shows significant increases in staff productivities, and as
competition among ports and between road and rail transport increases, one expects the
private sector to improve efficiency further in the interest of attracting more traffic.
Similar results in the form of improved services are anticipated in the public sector,
particularly the MTC, where restructuring and training has led to better planning,
budgeting and policy making skills in the transport sector.

57.    Efficiency of the Investments is rated satisfactory. The analysis (Annex 3)
shows the following results compared to the estimates at the beginning of the project:

Table 4: IRR and NPV

                                  IRR (%)         NPV (Million US$)
Financial at ICR                            23                    45
Financial in PAD                Not calculated                  158
Economic at ICR                             24                    51
Economic in PAD                           52.0                 357.0

58.     Financial and economic internal rates of return (IRR) and NPV are less on
completion than at appraisal because of the reduction in railway traffic in the earlier years
of the project, which have a big impact on the IRR as well as NPV. The reasons for less-
than-expected traffic increase have been highlighted in section 3.2. Overall, the financial
return (23%) and economic return (30%) are nevertheless satisfactory. Both FRR and
ERR are also much lower because the CFM's cash flow has been limited to, on average,
US$50 million per annum given the downturn in the neighboring country's economy and
the world-wide financial crisis, both of which could not be visualized at the time of
Project preparation.

3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

59.     The overall outcome rating for the Project is Satisfactory. Given that: (a) the
project objective is relevant to the higher development objectives of the country and in
line with Mozambique's longer-term growth strategy, wherein regional integration and
trade underpin this growth strategy through the new economy (CAS Partnership Strategy,
April 2007). For example, the GDP has averaged six percent annually since 1996 and
transport is one of the sectors which has grown rapidly between 1996 and 2005; and (b)
The PDOs have largely been achieved. The achievement of some indicators like staff
retrenchment and port traffic is more than 100%. The implementation period was longer
than original planned and the project got four closing date extensions. However, as


                                             17
explained in section1.7, the PDOs were largely achieved by the time of the first
extension. The other three extensions were required to further enhance the project
benefits with the addition of new components.

3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

60.     The ICR team did not undertake a specific assessment of gender aspects and
poverty impacts of RPRP. However, based on limited interaction with beneficiaries such
as ferry passengers, retrenched CFM staff, the project had a positive impact on social
development and poverty reduction. For example, the improved ferry service has led to
safer transportation and more economic exchanges; the professional skill of the
retrenched staff was improved after job training such that the human capital was also
strengthened.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

61.      There has been an increase in the capacity of both MTC and CFM. MTC is now
more competent than before as mention earlier (paragraph 54). CFM's increased capacity
is reflected in its profitable financial status, diversified business and focus on the long-
term development of the port-railway systems. In 2009, the railway and port sector
presents a completely different picture when compared to 2000. More details of
institutional change and impact of various components are given in Annex 2.

(c) Other Outcomes and Impacts

62.     There were three main unintended outcomes and impacts. First, the credit
financed studies related to the development of corridors and supported the setting up of a
corridor management unit which was not originally included as part of the Project design.
This support has resulted in the setting up of information and of a data base for future
development of these corridors and will lead to generating private sector interest to invest
in the corridors. This effort is also supported by other donors and two PPIAF grant
financed studies. Second, even though the floods of 2000 damaged the Limpopo line, its
subsequent rehabilitation was accompanied by the widening of the culverts to cope with
similar or even more severe floods in the future. As a result, the line is in a better shape.
Finally, the breakdown of the concession for the Ressano-Garcia line led to the
rehabilitation and modernization of the line which can now operate longer trains with a
higher axle load and at higher speed and has the potential of attracting more bulk traffic,
particularly coal and magnetite from South Africa.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

63.    No formal beneficiary survey was undertaken but several beneficiary interactions
were held with: (a) the railway systems in Malawi, Zimbabwe, South Africa, and
Swaziland on service delivery, (b) staff and staff unions on retrenchment mitigation
measures, (c) the concessionaires on their performance and support of the GOM, (d)


                                             18
passengers using the new boats and vessels, and (e) businesses and major exporters and
importers in Mozambique and the neighboring countries using the ports and railways.
These interactions yielded positive responses from beneficiaries on the results achieved
by the project, especially with regard to the redeployment efforts made for the retrenched
staff and the improvement of services in the ports of Beira and Maputo. According to the
railway concessionaires, privatization has led to improved operating agreements and
arrangements with the neighboring countries involving the sharing of locomotives and
wagons, extended locomotive runs, and sharing of information.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

4.1 The overall risk is assessed as moderate.

64.      Three ports and two railways are under long-term (15-25 years) concessions.
Compared with public sector management, the concessionaires, free from many
restrictive procedures and rules, are expected to respond to the market more quickly and
manage the system more efficiently to stay competitive. The freight traffic on railway and
port systems is, therefore, expected to continue increasing with the recovery of the
regional and global economies, especially after the Sena line becomes fully operational
and after CFM and South African Railways have reached operating agreements with
regard to operations on the Ressano-Garcia line. The already strengthened MTC capacity
is only likely to be strengthened further as a result of more trained staff, strategic
planning, and increased exposure to world-wide information through the extended use of
the internet.

65.     However, the risk to development outcomes is still considered as "moderate" due
to the following pending issues. For the Port-railway systems: (a) the planned concession
monitoring unit in MTC is yet to be set up and the delay in this mechanism could impose
risks for the existing concessions especially when some unanticipated issues not covered
by the concession contracts arise; (b) the traffic increase on the Ressano-Garcia line
depends to a great extent on the traffic sharing agreement with South African Railways
(SAR). While SAR has shown a willingness to cooperate, it could continue to focus on its
domestic railway development and on implementing tariff policies and practices aimed at
encouraging traffic to move to its own ports in which case the expected dramatic increase
in freight traffic on the Ressano-Garcia line may not materialize. For the strengthening of
the MTC, seven studies were conducted under this Project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

66.     The Bank's performance in ensuring Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory
for three main reasons: (a) the Bank's appraisal team accurately identified key issues and
made the right proposals that eventually led to a more efficient port-railway system that


                                            19
benefited the country. Full use was made of the existing information and studies in
developing the project components and technical specialists were engaged to evaluate
every proposal; (b) an adequate effort was made to build consensus and get full
commitment from all stakeholders to ensure that the chances of failure due to contentious
elements of staff retrenchment and privatization were minimized and the project could be
well received and implemented; (c) appropriate provisions were made for technical
assistance in the form of: (i) an expatriate railway expert and a local human resource
specialist to help CFM implement its part of the project; and (ii) a project coordinator to
head the implementation unit within MTC and help it to implement its part of the project
and prepare regular reports. However, the project design had a few shortcomings as
mentioned in section 2.1 such as inadequate definition of outcome indicators to fully
reflect the PDOs; an ambitious timeline for completing the various concessions, and
linking staff rationalization to concessioning which delayed staff retrenchment. The
project attempted to address too many complex issues which turned out to be difficult to
accomplish within the timeframe such as, setting up of a regulatory body, undertaking a
pension study for the whole public sector and linking the improvement of tertiary ports to
private sector interest in their operation.

(b) Bank Performance in Quality of Supervision

67.     The overall rating in quality of supervision is assessed as Satisfactory. This was
a complex and difficult project, the implementation was full of challenges and
unexpected issues such as concession breaking up and floods damaging the Limpopo
line. The Bank team remained focused and results oriented while at the same time
maintaining flexibility and making necessary changes to ensure successful achievement
of the development outcomes. Such examples included restructuring the project to meet
new demands, launching a separate Beira Railway Project to enable the concessioning of
the Beira railway system as a public-private partnership with significant public sector
inputs, and enhancing project benefits by addressing the fluvial transport needs of the
coastal rural population.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

68.     Overall, the Bank Performance is rated as satisfactory, given that the quality
at entry and Bank supervision are both rated satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

69.     The GOM was fully committed to the achieving the development objectives in
spite of the formidable challenges facing the country and an uncertain sentiment with
regard to privatization. Such commitment included: (a) enunciating and implementing a
policy of privatization of one of the most strategic enterprises in the country, knowing


                                            20
full well that the step would entail massive staff retrenchment and readjustment of roles;
(b) providing full support for implementation including funding, personnel and policy
adjustments. There was teething problems during the implementation yet, privatization
and private-sector participation remained the corner-stone of government policy. The
Ministry of Finance, in particular, helped solve staff retrenchment issues and expedited
the concessioning process. On balance, GOM's performance is rated satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

70.     There were two implementing agencies for this project. The performance of CFM
is rated as satisfactory, while the performance of MTC is rated as moderately satisfactory,
with an overall combined rating as satisfactory. CFM successfully implemented staff
rationalization, its own restructuring, and the concessioning of the port and railway
systems. For staff rationalization, CFM established a staff rationalization unit to process
more than 14,000 cases in an orderly manner and expeditiously and compassionately
addressed any complaints from retrenched staff. CFM also fully supported the consultants
engaged in providing counseling and training to the retrenched staff. For its own
organizational restructuring, CFM management team led the effort. Through careful
planning and implementation, it has turned CFM into a profitable entity with no
dependence on Government financial support, a rare example in sub-Saharan Africa. For
concessioning, CFM participated fully in the selection of concessionaires and took its
responsibilities as a minor equity holder in the major concessions very seriously.

71.     MTC took full advantage of the opportunities created by the project and has
restructured and strengthened itself and implemented the project sub-components with
diligence. Though the allocation for the MTC components was small, implementation
involved dealing with knowledge-based and deeply-impacting investigations using
specialist consultants, institutions, universities, and individuals with all the accompanying
problems. MTC was not hesitant to submit alternative proposals within the allocated
funds in order to optimally utilize the funds and was instrumental in developing and
implementing new sub-components such as the development of corridors, fluvial
transport, and a transport cost study. However, MTC delayed decisions on the setting up
of a regulatory body and the implementation of the recommendations of several studies
that were undertaken under this project, hence, leaving some key planned activities
incomplete at the time of credit closure.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

72.   As a whole, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. This rating has
been arrived at considering the weighted performance of the GOM and the two
implementing agencies as described above.




                                             21
6. Lessons Learned

73.   Lessons learned from the Project are as follows:

   (a) The Project outcome indicators should be fully reflective of the PDOs. These
       indicators should be backed by an appropriate model or a set of equations in order
       to compute their values with clear identification for the control of relevant
       exogenous variables and their impact. For example, the outcome indicator of this
       project is traffic growth, as this indicator itself is a function of many variables
       such as efficiency of the railways and ports, economic growth in the neighboring
       countries, developments in the road sector, etc, a model with all the relevant
       parameters should have been designed to identify the impact of each variable.
       This would also facilitate improved monitoring by the implementing authorities,
       unambiguous evaluation of performance at every stage, and identification of
       timely corrective actions.

   (b) The relative weights of various indicators should be identified at the project
       preparation stage so that the aggregate performance with respect to a
       particular PDO can be judged unambiguously. Taking example of this Project,
       it would have been useful to make a more informed judgment on the overall
       performance under each PDO if the methodology for integrating the results
       measured by port traffic, railway traffic, ports efficiency, railways efficiency, staff
       retrenchment, and capacity building had been specified during appraisal - not
       necessarily in quantitative terms only but even in a broad ranking form or by
       relative weights contributing to the specific PDO.

   (c) Staff rationalization is complex and difficult; it could be successfully
       completed only if the rationalization design could integrate a good severance
       package, counseling services, job training and have provision for follow up
       services. More concretely: (i) the staff being retrenched should not be the only
       losers and the severance package should be enough to maintain them while they
       seek an alternative career; (ii) psychological, social, and financial counseling must
       be provided both in groups and individually to enable the staff to overcome the
       shock of retrenchment; (iii) adequate training and retraining should be arranged so
       that the staff can leverage their experience and skills towards another career; and
       (iv) guidance to staff should be continued for a number of years and the progress
       of staff monitored closely. The program under RPRP was successful because all
       the elements were observed and taken into consideration during the design and
       implementation of the program.

   (d) Railway concessioning and revitalization is complex and time-consuming
       especially when the potential investors consider the risks of investing in
       Africa as high. Successful concessioning of the railways required a balanced
       risk sharing structure, a good understanding of the local business
       environment, working on the logistics chain as a whole, and having a good
       marketing strategy. More concretely: (i) The risks should be well balanced


                                             22
         between the potential investors and the government; (ii) the concessionaire should
         be one who knows the business environment and respects the culture, has good
         communication skills or strategy and builds trust with all the stakeholders in the
         country, so that they can work together to solve problems and focus on
         development issues; (iii) the concessionaire, together with other stakeholders,
         should work on the whole logistics chain including shipping line, customs service,
         port and inland transport, so that traffic can flow smoothly; and (iv) marketing is
         as important as the other development strategies to generate more business.

      (e) The lesson drawn from dropping the tertiary port rehabilitation component
          is: if investment for a component is delayed for any reason, the economic analysis
          must be repeated just before the investment is actually undertaken to make sure
          that the changed business environment has not diminished the economic
          feasibility.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Co-financiers. There were no co-financiers in this project.

Other partners and stakeholders. There were no other development partners.

74.     CFM raised the following four issues regarding the railway and port concessions:
(a) Does the public sector have a role to play? (b) What is the best approach for port
concessions? Is a Master Lease Concession the best alternative? (c) Are Advisers
necessary to structure a good deal? and (d) is competitive tendering the best approach to
select a partner in a concession?

75.     These issues invoke intense discussion around the world including within the
World Bank with supporters on either side. The comments from the project team on
these issues are: (a) The role of the Public sector is clearly very important in PPPs and in
formulating policies and providing the required regulation and oversight; (b) Master
Lease Concessions have been successful elsewhere in the world and have definite
advantages and disadvantages over other methods, so there is no clear conclusion
whether a Master lease concession is the best approach. Even in Mozambique, the
Maputo port is under master concession while the Beira port is under landlord
concession, both are successful; (c) Transaction Advisers could bring worldwide
experience to bear on the complex procedures and processes that are required to
implement privatization of public assets. They are not necessary, but do add value
especially when the government does not have the requisite capacity; and (d) Negotiated
contracts have advantages, however, in general competitive bidding has proved to
produce better results.




                                             23
                           Annex 1. Project Outputs, Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
 Components                                Appraisal       Estimate at        Actual/Late       Percentage
                                            Estimate      Restructuring        Estimate             of
                                                US$       US$ million         US$ million        appraisal
                                             million
 Concessioning of CFM Ports                     1.00                  1.60         1.81             181%
 and Railways
 Staff Rationalization                          96.44               81.00         77.81              81%
 Corporate Restructuring                         2.60                2.60          0.96              37%
 Strengthening of MTC                            1.70                6.00          2.57             151%
 Regulatory Framework                            8.20                1.00          0.70               9%
 Tertiary Ports                                 10.06                0.00          0.00               0%
 Rehabilitation of Passenger                     0.00               15.00         16.55
 Jetties and acquisition of new
 boats/ferries
Rehabilitation of the Ressano-
Garcia line                                        0.00               6.40          5.45
 Exchange Rate Adjustment                                                           0.18
 Total Project Cost                            120.00              120.00         106.03            88%
 MDRI SPLIT                                                                        39.44
  TOTAL                                                                            66.59

 (b) Project Financing (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                               Estimate US$ Estimate US$ Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                        million      million     appraisal
 GOVERNMENT**                                                       20.0         16.0         80%
 CFM                                                                 0.0          8.7
 IDA                                                               100.0        106.0        106%
 TOTAL                                                             120.0        130.7        109%

 ** Government counterpart funding fully paid at project start, however actual cost was affected by the exchange rate
 fluctuation




                                                          24
                             Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Part A: Concession of CFM major Ports and Railways:

1.      Design: It was agreed that the three major ports ­ Maputo, Beira, and Nacala ­
and the related railway systems would be concessioned. By the time the project became
effective, the Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique, E.P. (CFM) had already
embarked on undertaking concessioning on a limited scale, having concessioned the coal,
sugar, container, and citrus terminals of the Port of Maputo. CFM and the Government
of Mozambique (GOM) had indicated their preference for the following equity structure:
Winning bidder ­ 51 percent, CFM 33 percent, and the Mozambican public and key
stakeholders ­ 16 percent (which shares would be warehoused with CFM until a
methodology to identify such shareholders is identified). The general methodology was
that a strategic partner would be identified through a competitive process but CFM
reserved the right to identify a strategic partner directly. The credit was available for
studies, transaction advisors, and any other assistance.

2.      Implementation. The results at the close of the Project are as follows:

     (a) The Port of Beira was concessioned prior to the project becoming effective. The
         concession was awarded to a consortium whose main foreign partner was a Dutch
         firm with which CFM had a relationship of many years through various port
         activities. The concession has been doing extremely well from the very beginning
         and in 2008, made a pre-tax profit of US$16 million;
     (b) The Port of Maputo was concessioned with the concessionaire being identified on
         a competitive basis. The consessioning process took a long time during
         evaluation, negotiation, and operationalization as the Concessionaire insisted on
         the concessioning of the Ressano-Garcia line being concessioned before making
         the concession operational. The concession did not do well for many years but
         the ownership has now changed, the new concessionaire has streamlined
         operations, and the prospects now look much better;
     (c) The Port of Nacala and the Nacala Railway system were concessioned on a
         negotiated basis and the concession was awarded to the SPDN, the Malawi
         railways concessionaire. It was expected that the same concessionaire for both
         sides of the corridor would provide synergy and avoid interface problems.
         However, the concession has not performed well at all. Performance has declined
         sharply, infrastructure has deteriorated, and accumulated losses have mounted.
         The main foreign partners appear to have abandoned the concession and the future
         looks very uncertain. The hope is that, as in the case of the concession for the port
         of Maputo, new investors will be forthcoming and with renewed management and
         investment, the corridor will be revitalized as the fundamentals of the corridors
         are strong;
     (d) The Beira railway system was difficult to concession as the Sena Line, a part of
         the system, had been in disuse since 1984 and required extensive rehabilitation,


                                              25
       A new project was launched to offer a BOT-type concession and the
       concessionaire was identified on a private-public partnership basis with
       considerable financing from the World Bank. The rehabilitation of the Sena Line
       is progressing well. However, the line will have to be further strengthened and its
       capacity increased considerably to be able to carry large quantities of coal. Some
       of the key issues of tariff and capacity are currently under discussion;
   (e) The concession of the Limpopo and Goba lines, part of the Maputo railway
       system could not be signed though the concessionaire was identified through a
       competitive bid because the line suffered extensive damage due to floods just
       before the concession agreement was to be signed. Currently, the private interest
       in the line is low because of the sharp decline in freight traffic consequent to the
       decline in the Zimbabwean economy. The line is being managed by CFM after it
       was rehabilitated;
   (f) The Ressano-Garcia line, also a part of the Maputo rail system, was also
       concessioned but the concession could not be signed because South African
       railways, a key partner of the concession consortium, pulled out of the
       consortium. The line has since been upgraded and is being managed by CFM.
       The Concession depends on the cooperation of South African Railways, which is
       not reported to be in favor of a private concession. However, CFM is in the
       process of reaching an agreement with South African Railways to operate on their
       lines by paying access charges and the prospects on increased traffic have
       brightened.

3.      Issues. Even though the implementation of the concessions so far has been mixed
­ disappointing in some cases and encouraging in others - there are some issues where
either the answers are not clear or some more post-project work would need to be done.
These issues are discussed below:

   (a) CFM's Thirty-three percent equity participation in major port and railway
       concessions. Considerable concern has been expressed by many regarding this
       participation as this can be seen as a direct conflict of interest, with CFM
       indirectly assuming the roles of both the conceding authority and the
       concessionaire and additionally increases CFM's risk exposure. However, CFM
       has explained that this participation has many benefits including the following: (a)
       the equity participations grants them a seat on the Board of Directors of the
       concessionaire and thus provides an opportunity to understand the
       concessionaires' plans and strategy and even a chance to influence them ; (b) it
       provides an opportunity to CFM to offer its assets (locomotives, wagons, cranes
       etc.) as part of its equity, which assets will otherwise be difficult to sell; (c) CFM
       stands to gain in the form of dividends in an upswing of the business of the
       concessionaire; and (d) even the concessionaire welcomes this participation as
       this implies a partnership rather than a confrontation ;
   (b) Master concession or landlord-type concession: Maputo and Nacala ports have
       been concessioned on a master concession basis with the existing terminal
       concessionaire being brought within the scope of the master concession. That


                                            26
       means that the concessionaire is responsible for most services within the port
       including dredging. The Port of Beira has been concessioned with CFM retaining
       the landlord status. There is a worldwide debate on the merits of both types of
       concession. The current concessionaire seems to favor a master concession as
       that gives him greater flexibility and lesser interface problems whereas CFM
       seems to feel that a landlord-type concession is more lucrative for CFM and also
       presents less risk of failure. More analysis is required to make a meaningful
       comparison.
   (c) Future of the Nacala port-railway system. As indicated above, the future of
       Nacala is a major issue laced with legal, institutional, and financial complexity.
       More effort is required to set a right course for the system.
   (d) Future of the Ressano-Garcia line: As indicated above, the agreement for
       mutual use of the line in South Africa by CFM and of Ressano-Garcia could
       provide a promising framework for increasing freight traffic on the line. Other
       arrangements and partial sub-contracting could be used to make better use of the
       institutional arrangements.
   (e) Future of the Limpopo and Goba lines: for quite some time, there could be a
       low interest in the concession because the traffic is low and an increase in traffic
       will depend a lot on the progress made in Zimbabwe. The line may have to be
       managed by CFM for a long time and in that case, there has to be a bigger focus
       on the efficient running of the railways. It does not mean that the line is being
       operated inefficiently but there is always room for improvement.

4.       Evaluation: Overall, based on the complexity of the task of concessioning, and
the unavoidable impact of the policies of neighboring countries but also on the results so
far, the component is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Part B: Staff Rationalization:

5.      Design: It was clear from any number of past privatization efforts that
concessioning would have been difficult, if not impossible, if the staff on roll had not
been drastically reduced. In order to ensure staff reduction with the least possible pain
and to be fair to those who had been retrenched, the severance package was finalized only
after discussion with the staff and after conducting a survey and included many novel
features such as:.
   (a) allowing a severance package comprising a supplement of 27.5 percent on the
       pension of the retrenched staff computed by the Ministry of Finance and certified
       by the legal authority, which proved satisfactory to all staff - higher pension for
       relatively senior staff and higher pension for a longer period for relatively
       younger staff instead of paying a severance payment based on past service for the
       staff entitled to pension (I.e., those employed before 1989), ;
   (b) the payment of the pension and the supplement could be cashed on the basis of
       net present value of the pension stream or; if the staff could continue to remain in




                                           27
         the pension scheme and receive monthly pension from the Ministry of Finance
         with only the supplement paid in cash;
      (c) the staff, who were employed after 1989 and were not participants in the
          Government-managed pension scheme, were to be paid severance at the rate of
          six months' pay for every year of service completed, twice the legal entitlement
          but still low in cash terms because average service life was low and so were the
          wages; and
      (d) an elaborate scheme was put in place for the counseling of retrenched staff,
          training them for future reemployment or self employment, and assisting them in
          seeking employment in the non-railway sector or open small businesses.

6.     Severance computation software was developed and vindicated before being
applied and strict security measures were taken to ensure that the package is not tempered
with; all computations of severance payments and actual payments were certified by
professional audit firm, also financed through the Credit.

7.      It was announced that transparent and efficient procedures would be established
to instill confidence in the staff that what had been promised would be delivered. In
particular, it was widely announced that: (a) a separate staff retrenchment office managed
by competent and experienced staff would be established to ensure strict and speedy
compliance with retrenchment procedures; (b) severance computation software would be
developed before being applied and strict security measures would be taken to ensure that
the package would not be tempered with; and (c) all computations of severance
payments and actual payments would be certified by a professional audit firm selected for
this purpose.

8.       Implementation. The following actions were taken under this component:

      (a) a special workforce rationalization unit, manned by lawyers, a psychologist,
          Human resource experts and staff, and an IT specialist, was established;
      (b) the staff rationalization program was implemented with considerable efficiency,
          as a result of which the permanent staff with CFM and various concessionaires
          stands reduced from around 19400 at the end of 1998 to around 3400 (1600 with
          CFM and 1800 with the concessionaires) at the end of June 2009. The reduction
          of staff by 16000 took place as follows: (i) natural attrition, deaths, dismissals,
          and abandonment ­ 1200; (ii) retrenchment ­ 14800. The retrenchment took
          place as follows: (i) Option A under which staff were paid full retirement benefits
          as a lump sum ­ 8100: (ii) Option B under which the staff remained under the
          retirement scheme but were paid the supplement and golden handshake ­ 700;
          (iii) Staff who were not a part of the retirement scheme, having joined after 1989
          and were paid on the basis of the length of their service ­ 4800; and (iv) Staff who
          were paid only the golden handshake ­ 12003.


3
    All figures have been rounded to the nearest hundred


                                              28
   (c) Vigorous staff mitigation measures were taken, the details being as follows: (i)
       more than 12000 staff (about 80% of the retrenched staff) were provided
       psychological, career-related and financial counseling; (ii) 84 management
       courses (1496 staff), 344 professional courses (3925 staff), and 47 agricultural
       courses (700 staff) were held with a total of 6121 staff attending one or more
       courses; (iii) 3823 staff (about 25% of the retrenched staff) attended follow-up
       training programs;
   (d) The mitigation measures resulted in the following: (i) staff in self-employment ­
       7000; and (ii) staff employed in small-scale formal and informal firms ­ 900. In
       the self-employment or reemployment process, 263 staff were provided with
       micro finance and many more were provided with start-up assistance. Assistance
       was also provided to staff in different provinces, with 553 members to form 46
       associations aimed at facilitating discussions of mutual interest; and
   (e) Payments were made promptly and all complaints were duly and comprehensively
       addressed; and free training was also offered to dependents of the staff in case the
       staff was unable or incapable of going through any sort of training.

9.      Issues. Even though the implementation went very well, there have been some
issues where either the answers are not clear or some more post-project work would need
to be done. These issues are discussed below:

   (a) Complaints: It has been reported that close to 700 complaints (5% of the total
       retrenched) were made during the period of retrenchment and most were resolved
       to the entire satisfaction of the complainants. Most complaints pertained to
       computation errors due to deficiencies in data base regarding the date of birth,
       length of service etc. and CFM paid close to US$1 million (about 1.3% of the
       total amount of retrenchment) after rectification of the errors. However, seven
       cases are pending in courts, the complainants having challenged the basis of
       discounting rate and mortality assumption for computing the NPV. The
       complainants have a very weak case but the fact that the workers have access to
       courts is a sign of transparency;
   (b) Statistics of staff reemployed or self-employed and sustainability: The
       numbers (7000 or so) are based on the estimates of consultants who managed the
       counseling and training of staff. The following issues have been raised during
       discussions: (i) an independent survey would have been better; (ii) it is not clear
       whether the small businesses started by the retrenched staff have been sustainable;
       (iii) no contacts were made with staff who did not opt for training to find out
       whether they were reemployed or otherwise; (iv) there is no mention whether the
       influx of the retrenched staff adversely affected the chances of the already-
       unemployed residents of Mozambique;
   (c) Future plans: CFM still has around 1600 staff mainly because it is still operating
       and managing the southern railway system, the oil and grain terminals, and many
       other assets and businesses that have not been concessioned. There is no
       immediate plan to retrench any further staff but CFM does not plan to replace the
       staff lost through natural attrition except to balance the skill base. Even so, the
       plan is not clearly spelled out;


                                           29
   (d) Staff wages and salaries: Even though 70 percent of the staff has been
       retrenched and another 15 percent transferred to concessionaires, the staff wages
       and salary bill continues to be roughly the same as before the start of the
       retrenchment. Some reasons for this were explained as follows: (i) wages and
       salaries of staff had to be substantially increased over the years to keep pace with
       the inflation and market averages; (ii) close to 3000 retired staff are awaiting
       settlement of their pension by the Ministry of Finance and who have to be paid
       their salaries until their pension is settled; and (iii) the remaining staff includes a
       relatively higher percentage of middle and high level management staff as very
       little such staff was taken over by the concessionaires. CFM needs to take the
       following post-Project actions: (i) make a separate list of the staff who are being
       paid as they are awaiting their retirement settlement; and (ii) take action to
       critically look at the staff wages and salaries; and
   (e) Micro-financing: The micro-financing scheme has been claimed as being
       successful though on a small scale. Normal experience being otherwise, CFM
       should require the consultants to prepare a detailed note on this.

10.     Evaluation: Overall, based on the complexity of the task and despite some of the
issues discussed above, the component is rated highly satisfactory:

Part C: Corporate Restructuring:

11.    Design. Based on internal studies and brain-storming, CFM had created a broad
blue print where by the original CFM was to continue as a holding company and many
subsidiary companies were to be created for various commercial functions. The proposed
corporate restructuring was aimed at increasing the capacity of CFM to effectively
manage the concessions, resolve emerging problems, and efficiently manage the assets
and businesses still remaining with CFM.

12.     Implementation. The studies were undertaken and short-term experts were also
employed by CFM to help it reach decision on the most appropriate structure. Resulting
from the study recommendations, but mainly through its own thinking, CFM finally gave
up on the idea of creating a structure of holding and subsidiary companies and provided
the following reasons: (a) procedurally it was extremely difficult to create any more
public companies as the Government was not prepared to take the risk of getting involved
in more public companies and was in fact trying to divest the already existing companies;
(b) Both the Government and CFM favored gradually involving the private sector
through joint ventures for managing its assets and functions on a case by case basis rather
than first creating separate companies; and (c) it was advised that the holding company-
subsidiary structure would add considerably to the cost of CFM while the subsidiary
companies were unlikely to sustain themselves. Instead, CFM created a new organization
structure, the main features of which were as follows:
    (a) A relatively flat structure with lesser authority levels;
    (b) A thin structure that employs much lesser staff;
    (c) A separate directorate created to manage CFM's shareholding in different
        businesses including the concessions of major ports and railway systems. CFM



                                             30
         currently has close to 16 companies where it has equity or partnership in a joint
         venture (see Annex 3 for the list of companies along with CFM's interest);
   (d)   A separate directorate created to undertake inspections and safety regulations until
         the Government establishes a regulatory authority;
   (e)   A separate directorate has also been created to effectively manage the real estate
         and property owned by CFM;
   (f)   Human resources directorate has been maintained though with considerably
         diminished staff to reflect lower workload consequent to reduction in staff;
   (g)   Finance, internal audit, and some operational directorates have been maintained
         and strengthened in the light of the diversification of CFM's involvement;
   (h)   The regional directorates in the North and the Center were radically trimmed to
         discharge only overseeing functions; and
   (i)   The regional directorate in the South was also trimmed to maintain staff only for
         the management and operation of the rail system, which remains un-
         concessioned;

13.     The review of the audited accounts of CFM for the years 2000 to 2008 indicates
that its profitability has increased despite the decline in railway traffic mainly for the
following reasons: (a) less maintenance cost because all concessioned infrastructure and
leased assets are required to be maintained by the concessionaires; (b) CFM has taken
action to reduce its wagons and locomotives and the resulting operating costs; (c) CFM
has made the most of its redundant assets by creating joint ventures with private entities
to manage these assets; (d) CFM has streamlined its organization and reduced its
expenditure considerably; and (e) concession fees from port concessions have increased
consequent to increase in port traffic.

14.     Issues. Even though the implementation of CFM restructuring has gone quite well
and CFM's profits have shown an increasing trend, there are some issues where either the
answers are not clear or some more post-project work would need to be done. These
issues are discussed below:
    (a) Equity in many loss-making companies: Annex 3 shows that CFM has a share
        holding in some companies that are making losses. While agreeing to the
        situation, CFM feels that these companies have good fundamentals and are
        expected to do better in the future;
    (b) Effective utilization of assets: Even though CFM has made considerable effort to
        utilize the assets, it is not certain that more cannot be done. An intensive study,
        either internal or with the help of experts, could provide many new ideas on what
        could be done better or differently with the real estate, the railway assets, other
        assets, and cash reserves. The study could also recommend areas where joint
        ventures could prove useful.
    (c) Further optimization of the structure: Though the structure has been
        streamlined, there is some feeling that it could be improved further and, in
        particular, there could be additional reductions of staff in high-paying positions,
        more involvement of the private sector in various activities and functions,
        outsourcing of some functions, and rationalization and consolidation of functions.
        CFM has indicated that it will intensify its efforts in the above areas. Inter-



                                             31
       railway and inter-port comparisons: CFM now has a variety of structures for
       its ports and railways systems ­ concessions, BOT-type concession, self-
       management ­ but no comparative figures of efficiency, productivity and
       profitability are being maintained. These statistics could be difficult to obtain, but
       if an arrangement can be made with the concessionaires, even on a confidential
       basis, this might be useful for all concerned.

15.     Evaluation: Overall, based on the complexity of the task of organization
restructuring and despite some of the issues discussed above, the component is rated as
"highly satisfactory".

Part D: Strengthening of MTC:

16.    Design: This component comprised the following: (a) carrying out of a study or
studies to: (i) review the Borrower's transport policy framework; (ii) review the
framework for concessions; (iii) define the new functions of MTC and assess MTC's
organizational structure in the framework of its evolving role; and (iv) determine staffing
requirements, taking into account the Borrower's civil service reform program; and (b)
provide technical advisory services in connection with this Part component.

17.     Implementation: Most studies and technical assistance planned have been
carried out and additionally many more studies and TA were carried out also. Only one
TA sub-component, i.e., planned earlier, viz., TA for strengthening the civil aviation
directorate was not carried out because the Ministry took time to determine the structure
of that directorate. As a whole, the following sub-components have been carried out:
    (a) Seven studies: (i) MTC restructuring and strengthening study; (ii) study for the
        development of a strategic plan; (iii) transport studies; (iv) port security study; (v)
        review of development corridor initiatives; (vi) study of coal transport tariffs; and
        (vii) Maputo port competitiveness study;
    (b) Training of (i) Road Safety Administration staff from different provinces
        including trip to South Africa; (ii) 10 MTC provincial directors in fundamentals
        of transport economics and logistics; (iii) 15 staff members of MTC in transport
        logistics (B .Tech Degree) at central and provincial level by a South African
        University; and (iv) 7 staff members of MTC, Public Transport Companies and
        Municipalities in Public Transport Reform and Planning;
    (c) TA involving: (i) initial support for 4 economists recruited by MTC; (ii) support
        for an ICT specialist; (iii) support for the development of Corridors Special
        Program through financing of one Director at central level, administrative and
        financial staff for the Maputo, Limpopo, Beira and Nacala corridors as well as
        computers, accessories and vehicles; and (iv) support for a project coordination
        unit;
    (d) Goods and services involving: (i) internet at the Ministry; (ii) .computers; (iii) a
        digital Private Automatic Branch Exchange (PABX); and (iv) vehicles.

18.    The main impact of the above inputs can be recounted as follows:




                                              32
   (a) The restructuring of the Ministry's organization, which has been facilitated by the
       different studies and the TA is still on-going and changes are still being made
   (b) Increasing the knowledge base of the Ministry;
   (c) Development of an initial strategic plan;
   (d) Enhancement of the capacity of MTC staff and that of various other staff in
       municipalities and provinces connected with transport;
   (e) Computerization of MTC as well exposure to the internet and capacity to reach
       data bases and specialist articles and transport research; and
   (f) Overall increase in confidence.

19.     Issues: Even though the implementation of the MTC's capacity strengthening
program has gone quite well and MTC is much better off in terms of its structure,
analytical capacity, and its knowledge base, there are some issues which answers are
either not clear or some more post-project work needs to be done. These issues are
discussed below:
    (a) The Organization structure still needs to be fully functional: While the
        structure has been simplified, there is less evidence that it is fully functional. For
        example, the Economy and Investment directorate is not making comprehensive
        analysis of the investment proposals of the various companies under its control.
        A second review is essential and working norms have still to be established;
    (b) The Concession Monitoring Unit has not been established: The setting up of
        the unit required considerable preparatory work and that has not been done. The
        World Bank has assisted the Government in making arrangements with the
        Spanish Trust Fund to finance studies and TA to assist MTC set up this unit;
    (c) Staffing levels are still not optimal: In spite of substantial staff training,
        particularly in economics, more skill development is still required and some staff
        may be redundant as well. During supervision missions, MTC was urged to
        review the human resource models employed by some other ministries and
        introduce the same at MTC in order to have an effective human resource
        management; and
    (d) The Strategic Plan needs to be refined: A good start was made and a first
        strategic plan had been developed. However, the report needs to be refined to be
        more pragmatic and to focus on core values which also need to be defined more
        clearly.

20.     Evaluation: Overall, based on the complexity of the task of enhancing the
capacity of MTC and despite some of the issues discussed above, the component is rated
satisfactory.

Part E: Regulatory Framework:

21.    Design: This component is comprised of the following: (a) the carrying out of a
study to: (i) identify the scope, functions, and instruments for the economic regulatory
framework for the transport sector; (ii) recommend the sectoral coverage and
accountability relationships for the regulatory institution; (iii) define the staffing, internal
organization, operating costs and financing mechanisms for a new regulatory agency; and



                                              33
(iv) prepare the necessary draft legislation; and (b) the acquisition of equipment and
provision of technical advisory services to (i) enable the launching of the Borrower's new
regulatory agency and the preparation of its staff in the carrying out of the agency's
functions; (ii) support the functioning of the agency for an initial period of 3-5 years; and
(iii) strengthen Instituto Nacional de Aviação Civil (INAC's) capabilities in the technical
regulation of the civil aviation subsector.

22.     Implementation. Only phase I study for the identification of the scope,
functions, and instrument for the regulatory framework was completed. Studies to detail
the nature, structure, functions, regulations, modus operandi and financing of the
transport sector regulatory bodies were not completed. Maritime legal and regulatory
support and technical assistance to implement the recommendations was also not
provided as the government could not decide on the final regulatory framework in spite
of a stakeholders' workshop and considerable internal thinking. It is noted that
establishing a cost-effective and sustainable regulatory body is always difficult and since
the institutions were evolved and concession agreements had not been finalized, the
Ministry found it difficult to finalize a specific model for implementation. In the
meantime, major regulations of the rail and port sectors are being done through the
concession agreements and no major problems are being encountered.

23.     The main impact of the above inputs has been to sensitize to the various options
for regulating the transport sector and the costs and issues involved. However, the main
tasks of actually establishing a regulatory framework have still to be completed.

24.     Issues. Even though there are understandable reasons for a final decision to not
have been made, the work of establishing an appropriate regulatory body has still not
been completed and the following issues would need to be addressed in the near future:
    (a) Identifying a cost-effective regulatory framework: Even though
        recommendations, have been made in the Phase I study more thinking has to go
        into identifying a cost-effective regulatory framework. This could involve the
        consolidation of existing regulatory bodies and considerable reorganization and
        staff rationalization. However, before a follow-up consulting study is launched,
        the Government has to develop some key options which could then be studied
        intensively. The Government also needs to study the experience of regulation of
        similar systems in other countries;
    (b) The Concession Monitoring Unit has not been established (also discussed
        under MTC strengthening component): The setting up of the unit required
        considerable preparatory work that has not been done. The World Bank has made
        arrangements with the Spanish Trust Fund to finance studies and TA to assist
        MTC in set up this unit;
    (c) Distinction needs to be made between policy and regulation. A clear
        distinction could enable the formation of a more appropriate regulatory body; and
    (d) Compiling data on regulatory issues: Since concessions have been in operation
        for some time, it will be a good idea to critically examine the impact of non-
        regulation of the railway and port sectors in order to define the scope of any
        future regulatory body.



                                             34
25.   Evaluation: Overall, based on the limited progress made but also realizing the
complexity of the task, the component is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Part F: Tertiary Ports:

26.      Design: This component comprised the following: (a) assisting MTC in the
carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of the small ports of Angoche, Macuse,
Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane; and (b) the provision of technical advisory services for:
(i) the supervision of the civil works in the mentioned four ports, and (ii) the preparation
of a study on the revitalization of the Inhambane Port.

27.     Implementation: Economic and Social Study of the Inhambane Region and
Rehabilitation was completed but the rehabilitation of small ports was dropped
considering: (a) the decline in traffic after road rehabilitation; (b) an insufficient
economic justification; and (c) a lack of interest of the private sector to seek concession
of these ports.

28.   The main impact of the above input was limited to a better understanding of the
Inhambane Region.

29.    Issues: The component was dropped except for the above-mentioned study.

30.    Evaluation: Since the component was dropped, it has not been evaluated

Part G: Rehabilitation of Passenger Jetties and Acquisition of new boats/Ferries
(New component introduced at restructuring)
(Estimated Bank financing ­ US$14.0 million, Actual Cost ­ US$13.36 million)

31.     Design: The component comprised: (a) the rehabilitation of key jetties used for
ferry services (passenger and minor cargo) in Maputo, Catembe, Inhambane, Maxixe,
Quelimane, and Recamba; and (b) the procurement of new ferries and other vessels for
water transport. The objective was to strengthen Mozambique's fluvial transport.

32.     Implementation: The following were implemented: (a) studies for (i) the
Maputo and Catembe jetties rehabilitation; (ii) the maritime means of transport; (iii) the
Quelimane- Recamba wharfs rehabilitation; (iv) the Transmaritima technical and
financial Audit; and (v) the environmental impact Assessment of Rehabilitation of Jetties;
(b) Technical assistance towards (i) the Inhambane ­ Maxixe Rehabilitation Supervision;
and (ii) the Maputo ­ Catembe Rehabilitation supervision; and (c) goods and services
towards: (i) the rehabilitation of the Inhambane and Maxixe Jetties; (ii) the rehabilitation
of the Maputo and Catembe Jetties; and (iii) the supply of 6 Ferries and Boats.

33.   The main impact of the component has been: (a) the restructuring of the
Transmaritima; (b) the quality and economic use of resources; (c) the increased safety of




                                            35
maritime means of transport; (d) the Improved access to safe fluvial and maritime
transport; and (e) the improved mobility for the poor

34.      Issues. Even though the rehabilitation of jetties and procurement of boats and
jetties was completed, there are certain remaining issues requiring attention :
     (a) The Quelimane - Recamba wharfs rehabilitation: This has still to be done
         using Government resources;
     (b) The Completion of the rehabilitation of the Inhambane ­ Maxixe and the
         Maputo ­ Catembe jetties: Some works are left incomplete and will have to be
         done using GOM finances;
     (c) Procedures for the operation and the maintenance of boats and ferries; For
         some years, it has not been possible to recover the operating and maintenance
         costs from the revenues and firm financing arrangements need to be made based
         on tariffs and efficiency norms;
     (d) Impact on private small boats: There appears to be dissatisfaction among
         private boat owners whose business has suffered as a result of the introduction of
         these ferries and boats. A plan needs to be devised to optimally utilize the
         existing private capacity.

35.   Evaluation: Overall, based on the progress made and the works remaining, the
component is rated satisfactory.




                                            36
                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The financial rate of return has been computed from the point of view of GOM
and CFM (as the ultimate owners of the assets). The FRR has been computed on the
basis of cost-benefit analysis of the "with" and "without" scenarios. The assumptions of
investment and benefits are as follows:

2.      Investments under the "with" scenario: (a) The main investments under the
project by CFM/GOM comprised the investments using the proceeds of the Credit; (b)
GOM and CFM did not make any investments using their own funds as long as the
concessioning process was on and made some investments only after the concession in
Ressano Garcia line failed (about US$15 million spread over four years or so) but that
investment has been covered in the yearly cash flow and not logged as investment; (c)
investments made by the concessionaires have not been considered as the concessionaires
have been considered outside parties and as such the profits of the concessionaires have
also not been considered; (d) The actual investment in each of the Project years has been
considered as equal to the disbursement every year (as per the disbursement of Credit
funds) with the total investment amounting to SDR60.6 million (US$86 million
equivalent) (details in Annex 1); and (e) interest on the investment has been ignored; and
(e) Investments under TA and the institutional components for MTC have not been
considered as their benefits have also not been considered, being long-term and not easily
quantifiable.

3.     CFM's Cash Flow: The cash flow figures have been taken from CFM's audited
statements and the cash flow = direct revenues from all CFM's activities, concession fees
and leasing charges) minus (operating costs and investments made by CFM including
dredging of ports).

4.      Net cash Flow: the net cash flow for CFM and GOM for all scenarios = IDA
disbursements (investments) + Investments by GOM + CFM's cash flow + concession
fees to GOM

5.      The "With" scenario is based on the Project with investments through the IDA
Credit as indicated above;

6.      The "Without" scenario is always difficult to imagine. The probabilities are:
(a) GOM is unable to take a decision on staff retrenchment and concessioning but based
on natural attrition and management effort, the railways and ports are maintained at the
2000 or slightly better level; (b) the increasing staff costs and low level of efficiency lead
to gradual decline of the railways and ports if some investments are made or more rapidly
if no investments are made; or (c) the investment is undertaken by CFM through a
commercial loan but with considerable delay. A five-year delay is logical as deciding to
take a commercial loan in order to finance severance payments is difficult. Scenario (c)
has the least damaging effect for CFM in the long-term as without going through with the
Project, the consequences would be even worse.



                                             37
7.     The results of the analysis are as follows:

8.      Cost-benefit analysis: Considering that CFM's increased cash flow is only as a
result of the Project, the NPV and the FRR amount to US$245 million and infinity
respectively. The complete improvement in performance, however, cannot be considered
as due only to the Project alone but also resulting from investments by the
concessionaires and which have not been considered. Considering only 30% of CFM's
cash flow, the NPV and the FRR amount to US35 million and 18% respectively. It is
obvious that the actual results lie somewhere in between.

9.    "With" and "Without" Analysis: The five year delay, the level of investment and
CFM's cash flow has been considered as similar when put in juxtaposition. The NPV and
the FRR under this analysis amount to US$45 million and 23% respectively.

10.    Additional assumptions used in the calculation of Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR) are:
          (a) In terms of economic analysis, both the GOM/CFM and the staff are
              considered as part of the economy and any transfers of funds between
              them are considered as transfers unless the balance constitutes a benefit or
              cost. As such the following adjustments have been made:
           Loss of wages and salaries have been considered a cost to the economy
              and offsets the benefit to CFM and are, therefore, subtracted from CFM's
              financial cash flow where these had been taken as savings;
           Investment in severance payments has been considered a cost (investment)
              under the financial analysis but the part of severance payment paid as
              bonus and supplement payments to staff have been added back as these
              were not payments due to staff but considered as value additions by the
              retrenched staff in alternative employments;
          (b) 30% of the retrenched staff has been assumed as re-employed or self
              employed (even though the actual re-employment or self employment has
              been much larger. By definition, the retrenched staff has been assumed to
              have been contributing no value to the economy and the 30% staff
              reemployed or self employed have added value, which has been
              conservatively assessed as equivalent toUS$600/year. The cumulative
              number of staff retrenched every year is very accurately documented.
          (c) The benefit to consumers from the shift from road to rail has been ignored
              for two reasons: (i) these benefits will arise much later in the time frame
              of analysis and their discounted value will be much smaller; and (ii) given
              the world-wide economic slump, it is difficult to project when the shift
              will really take place and how much gain will be involved.

11.     The Tables below project the financial and economic flows for the investment
over the period 2001 - 2020 based on the above assumptions. The Tables also show the
Financial Internal rate of Return (FIRR), FNPV, EIRR, and ENPV for the investment.




                                            38
34
35
12.    The analysis shows the following results compared to the results estimated at the
beginning of the project:

                              IRR (%)                        NPV (Million US$)
Financial at ICR              23                             45
Financial in PAD              Not calculated (>12%)          158
Economic at ICR               24                             51
Economic in PAD               52                             357

13.     Financial values are less because of the reduction in railway traffic mainly
because of the down turn in the economy of all the countries, especially Zimbabwe and
the failure of the concession of the Maputo rail system. Moreover, CFM's cash flow has
been limited to US$50 million per year in view of the recent experience of the world-
wide financial crisis, which at the time of project preparation could not be foreseen. The
actual could be much more.

14.    Economic values are less because of the reduced rail traffic in the first years of
the project which have a bigger impact on the financial NPV and also on the economic
NPV. Economic values are also lower because the government responsibilities for
pension payments had to be financed using the Credit amount and benefits of the funds
saved by the Government have not been considered even though these payments have
been                   considered                    as                     investments.




                                            36
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
  Lending
  Maryvonne Plessis-    Sector Manager                        AFTTR   Management
  Fraissard
  Yash Pal Kedia        Team Leader/Railway Engineer          AFTTR   Railway
  Uprety Kishor         Sr. Counsel                           LEGES   Legal
  Stephan Von Klaudy    Principal Financial Specialist        AFTTR   Finance
  Pedro Geraldes        Principal Transport Economist         AFTTR   Transport
  Sunita Kikeri         Adviser                               GCMCG   Private Sector
  Louis Thompson        Consultant                            LCSTR   Transport
  Philippe De Naurois   Consultant                            MNSSD   Finance
  Francesco Sarno       Consultant                            AFTEN
  Cyprian Fisiy         Director                               SDV    Social Develop.
  Elizabeth Monowski    Sr. Environment Specialist
  Ayse Kudat            Lead Specialist
  Brian Levy            Adviser                               PRMPS
  Anthony Hegart        Chief Financial Management Officer    OPCFM   Finance
  Serigne Omar Fye      Environment Specialist                AFTEN   Environment
  Carl Lundin           Environment Specialist
  Adelaide Barra        Program Assistant                     FEUUR
  Josiane Luchum        Program Assistant                     AFTSP

  Supervision/ICR
  Sanjivi Rajasingham   Sector Manager                        AFTTR   Management
  Anil Bhandari         Senior Advisor/TTL                    AFTTR   Engineering
  Yash Pal Kedia        Consultant/Railway Engineer           AFTTR
  Joao Tinga            Financial Management                  AFTFM   Finance
  Ntombie Siwale        Sr. Program Assistant                 AFTTR   Operations
  Farida Khan           Operations Analyst                    AFTTR   Operations
  Felly Kaboyo          Operations Analyst                    AFTTR   Operations
  Fang Xu               Economist                             AFTTR   Economics
  Jose Chembeze         Transport Specialist                  AFTTR   Transport
  Jyoti Bisbey          Operations Analyst                    FEUFG
  Antonio Chamuco       Procurement Specialist                AFTPC   Procurement
  Maria Nhassengo-      Procurement Assistant                 AFTPC   Procurement
  Massingue
  Jonathan Nyamukapa    Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM   Finance
  Elvis Langa           Consultant                            AFTFM   Finance
  Paul Amos             Consultant                            ECSSD   Finance
  Rakhi Basu            Transport Specialist
  Imogene Jensen        Lead Transport Specialist             EASIN
  V. Krishnakumar       Manager                               AFTPC   Procurement
  Ajay Kumar            Lead Transport Economics              AFTTR
  Robert Robelus        Consultant                            AFTWR   Environment
  George Tharakan       Lead Transport Specialist             SASDT
  Kavita Sethi          Sr. Transport Economist               AFTTR



                                             37
   Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus     Lead Procurement Specialist               SARPS
   Lucien Aegerter           Junior Professional Officer               AFTTR    Private Sector
   Slaheddine Ben Halima     Consultant                                AFTPC    Procurement

(b) Staff Time and Cost
    Stage of Project cycle   Staff time & cost (Bank Budget only)

                             No. of Staff weeks        US$ (including travel
                                                       and consultant costs)
   Lending


   FY98                                                              127,873
   FY99                                                              143,039
   FY00
   Total                                                             270,912


   Supervision/ICR
   FY00                                       20.54                   98,235
   FY01                                       15.74                   89,818
   FY02                                       18.19                   76,983
   FY03                                       12.69                   97,791
   FY04                                       12.19                   63,312
   FY05                                       15.91                   87,043
   FY06                                       16.75                  101,276
   FY07                                       16.58                  121,387
   FY08                                       15.37                   80,022
   FY09                                       32.65                  218,184
   FY10                                        9.25                   89,315
   Total                                     185.86                 1,123,364
   Grand Total                               185.86                 1,394,276




                                                  38
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No formal beneficiary surveys were conducted. However, the ICR team interviewed
some retrenched CFM staff and visited the Inhambane ferry service and the response
from the staff and the passengers was positive. The following pictures taken by the ICR
team illustrate what has changed in the Inhambane ferry service due to the project.




Picture One: The new boat operating at Inhambane




Picture Two: Boats operating prior to the project



                                            39
Picture Three: Inside the new boat




Picture Four: New Jetty




                                     40
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


No stakeholder workshops were held. However, specific workshops were held to discuss
consultants' reports on regulation, development corridors, and transport study.




                                        41
           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      The Government has not submitted its own full ICR by the time of the ICR
review meeting. A partial ICR prepared by one of the implementing agencies, CFM, was
sent to the Bank. In this partial ICR, CFM has pointed to what it considers are four
misconceptions regarding the railway and port concessions. The CFM disagrees that: (a)
the public sector has no role to play in the provision of ports and railway services; (b) the
Master Lease Concession in Port Business is the best approach; (c) Advisers are
necessary to structure a good deal; and (d) Tendering is the best approach to select a
partner in concession.

2.     Although CFM has not explicitly pointed at the World Bank as harboring these
misconceptions it seems that this is what has been implied. However, the Project was
based on the GOM's policy that was articulated by the Minister of Transport and
Communications (Mozambique) in many speeches in 1998-2000 including in a donors'
conference. The fact is that these issues invoke intense discussion all around the world
including at the World Bank with supporters on either side.

3.         With regard to the specific misconceptions cited by CFM, it is noted that:

     (a)      even before RPRP became effective, CFM had on its own concessioned at
           least five terminals in the port of Maputo as well two key terminals in the port of
           Beira and RPRP only supported the GOM and CFM in continuing the process in a
           more comprehensive way. Moreover CFM has continued to have a major role in
           all concessions (from a 31 percent to a 49 percent share in equity) and the World
           Bank has supported the GOM's desire to have significant shares in the
           concessions;

     (b)      The Bank did suggest that a master concession for the port of Maputo would
           lead to better performance but the final decision has been a joint decision made
           with GoM and CFM. In any case, the master concession is doing well;

     (c)      A possible implication of CFM's statement is that the concessions finalized by
           CFM without advisers have been more successful. In this regard, two
           clarifications are in order: (i) CFM has indeed acquired sufficient expertise and
           except in the case of the first concession, the Bank has not insisted on having
           advisors for processing of the transactions; and (ii) at CFM's request, the Bank
           has financed an advisor to CFM who has been regularly advising CFM in all
           concessions;

     (d)      Tendering is considered everywhere as the best strategy to achieve optimum
           results. CFM has a different point of view in which case it will then be better for
           CFM to undertake a comparative evaluation on the various methods of selecting a
           concessionaire in order to reach a definitive conclusion.




                                               42
        Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


None.




                                       43
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



Project Appraisal Document (June 15, 2001).

Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR).

Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Project Agreements with BPE and NEPA.

Aide Memoires.

Various memos and communications listed in project files and IRIS.
Data presented by CFM and MTC

Copies of study reports




                                           44
        Annex 10. Additional Supporting Data


None.




                        45
