Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4154a-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 30, 1983
Agriculture III Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT*
usl                                                       Dinars (Din) 63.51
Din 1                                                      US$0.0157
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                            2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                                       1,000 kilograms
1 centimeter (cm)                                          0.39 inches
1 meter (m)                                                1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                           0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                                             2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)                                        10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)                                   0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                                0.264 gallons
1 hectoliter (hl)                                          100 liters
I cubic meter (m3)                                         1.31 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS
ACO      -      Agricultural Credit Officer
AEA      -      Agricultural Extension Advisor
Al       -     Artificial Insemination
AIK      -      Agro-Industrial Kombinat
B        -     Billion
BB       -     Basic Bank
BCO      -     Basic Cooperative Organization
BOAL     -     Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CCC      -     Commune Coordinating Committee
COAL     -      Composite Organization of Associated Labor
EA       -     Extension Agent
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
FA       -      Faculty of Agriculture
FAO/WB   -     Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations/
World Batik
FC       -      Federation of Cooperatives
PCC      -     Project Coordinating Committee
FNP      -      Federal Fund for the Development of Less Developed Regions
FRR      -      Financial Rate of Return
GMP      -     Gross Material Product
GNP      -     Gross National Product
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
IED      -     Institute of Economic Development
IS       -     Individual Sector
KBP      -     Kosovska Banka, Pristina
M        -     Million
* The currency equivalents given above are those effective in October 1982.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MSC      -   Media Strategy Committee
NPV      -   Net Present Value
OA       -   Organization of Agriculturalists
OCC      -   Opportunity Cost of Capital
PCC      -   Project Coordinating Committee
SAPK     -   Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
RCS      -   Rural Communications Specialist
RTV      -   Radio Television
SDK      -   Social Accounting Service
SFRY     -   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SMA      -   Self-Management Agreement
SMS      -   Subject Matter Specialist
SV       -   Switching Value
WO       -   Work Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR                                                  1
A.  Project Background                                              1
B.  Agriculture in Yugoslavia                                       1
C.  Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector               3
D. The Agricultural Sector and Development
Issues in Kosovo                                               4
E.  Constraints to Increasing Agricultural Production              4
F.  Kosovo 1981-1985 Development Plan                               5
G. Performance under Previous World Bank Financed
Agricultural Credit and Irrigation Projects                    5
II.      THE PROJECT AREA                                                    6
III.     KOSOVSKA BANKA (KBP) - The Borrower                                10
A.  Resource Mobilization                                          10
B.  Financial Performance                                         11
C.  Arrears                                                       12
IV.      THE PROJECT                                                        12
A.  Objectives                                                     12
B.  Description                                                   13
C.  Status of Design and Project Implementation                   19
D.  Cost Estimates                                                19
E.  Financing                                                     21
F.  Retroactive Financing                                         21
G.  Disbursements                                                 22
H.  Procurement                                                   23
I.  Environmental Effect                                          24
J.  Role of Women                                                 24
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission to Yugoslavia
during June/July 1982, consisting of consisting of Messrs. V. Ashworth
(Mission Leader), E. Hunting, J.K. Ingram, A. Schumacher, V. Wickrema and
Ms. K. Gavrilovic (Bank), and Messrs. C. Konteatis, T. Stockley and R.
Noronha (Consultants). Mr. F. Wright (Bank) assisted with appraisal
analysis. A post-appraisal mission comprising Mr. Schumacher, Mr.
Carapetis and Ms. Lichtenstein (Bank) took place in October 1982.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.       PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                               24
A.  Institutional Arrangements                                    24
B.  Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)                          25
C.  Federation of Cooperatives (FC)                               26
D.  Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)                                 26
E.  Commune Governments                                           30
F.  Organizations of Agriculturalists (OA's)                      30
G.  Other Participating Organizations ana Supporting Services 31
H.  Training and Supervision                                      33
I.  Accounts and Audit                                            34
J.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation                          34
K.  Cost Recovery                                                 34
VI.      PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                35
A.  Production                                                    35
B.  Market Prospects and Channels                                 35
C.  Prices                                                        39
D.  Financial Analysis                                            40
VII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                        40
A.  Benefits                                                      40
B.  Economic Evaluation                                           42
C.  Risk and Uncertainty                                         45
D.  Fiscal Impact                                                46
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS                                                   46
TABLES
I        Project Area Cultivated Land Use                                   8
2        Project Cost Summary                                              20
3        Project Financing Plan                                            21
ANNEXES
Annex la  Glossary of Terms                                                49
Annex lb  Project Cost and Phasing
Table 1  Project Costs and Phasing - US$ Million
(International Price Contingencies)                             53
2   Project Costs and Phasing - Din. Million
(International Price Contingencies)                             54
3   Project Cost and Phasing - Dinar Million
(Local Price Contingency)                                       55
4   Project Cost Summary - Dinar Million
(Local Price Contingency)                                       56
5   Project Phasing                                                  57



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Annex 2  Schedule of Disbursements                                          58
Annex 3 Financial and Economic Data
Table 1  Summary Physical Quantities - Main Production                      59
2  Yugoslavia Trade in Major Agricultural Commodities                60
3 SAPK Estimated Increase in Requirements for
Agricultural Products                                             61
4  Farmgate Prices for the Financial and Economic Analyses           62
5 Investment Models - Yield and Production Coefficient
Assumptions                                                       66
6  Summary Results of the Financial Analyses                         67
7 Projected Economic Border Price Structure for
Tradeable Input and Output Commodities                            68
8  World Market Indicator Prices for the Economic Analyses           69
9  Summary Economic Results                                          70
10  Summary Results of the Economic Sensitivity Analyses              71
11  Socio-Economic Indicators                                         72
12 Agricultural Production Indicators                                 73
13  Land Use                                                          74
14  Agricultural Sector Performance 1970-1980                         75
Annex 4 KBP Data
Table I Balance Sheets                                                     76
2  Key Financial Ratios                                              77
3  Statement of Income and Expenses                                  78
4  Loan Portfolio Analysis                                           79
5  Sources and Uses of Funds                                         80
6 Analysis of Loan Approvals                                         81
Chart 1 KBP Organization Chart                                             82
Annex 5
Chart 1 Project Organization                                               83
Chart 2  Kosovo Water Economy Organization                                 84
Charts 3
and 4    Typical Road Construction Cross Sections                       85/86
Annex 6  Key Indicators                                                    87
Annex 7 Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File                                                      88
Map:     IBRD 16606



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01     The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo (SAPK) is located in
southern Yugoslavia. It is bordered in the west by Albania; in the south by
Macedonia, in the East by Serbia, and in the northwest by Montenegro (IBRD Map
16606). The total land surface is 10.9 million ha (4% of Yugoslavia) and the
population 1.6 million (7% of Yugoslavia). Kosovo is Yugoslavia's least
developed region; with 1979 per capita income about US$780 in 1982 prices.
The proposed Project would follow an earlier project for agricultural and
agro-inaustrial development: the Kosovo Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1993-YU, 1981). It would also support investments made under the Second
(Loan 1477-YU) and Third (Loan 1801-YU) Agricultural Credit Projects, in which
Kosovo has participated along with other Republics and Provinces.
1.02     The project was identified in February 1980 by a Bank mission and
prepared by the Institute of Economic Development (a Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL) of AgroKosovo) with the assistance of the FAO/WB
Cooperative Program. Bank follow-up missions visited Kosovo July 1980,
October 1981 and March 1982. The appraisal mission followed in June 1982
consisting of Messrs. V. Ashworth (Mission Leader), E. Hunting, J.K. Ingram,
A. Schumacher, V. Wickrema and Ms. K. Gavrilovic (Bank), and Messrs. C.
Konteatis, T. Stockley and R. Noronha (Consultants).  F. Wright (Bank)
assisted with appraisal analysis. A post-appraisal mission comprising Mr.
Schumacher, Mr. Carapetis and Ms. Lichtenstein (Bank) took place in October
1982.
B. Agriculture in Yugoslavia
1.03     In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment has declined steadily in the post-war period. However, the agri-
cultural sector remains important in the overall development of the economy,
contributing about 14% of social product, and engaging about 30% of the
country's active population. The agricultural sector accounts for the income
of one-third of the population--a group which is largely rural, under-
employed, and in the relative poverty target group with per capita income
under US$850 per annum. In addition, the agricultural sector makes an
important contribution to reducing Yugoslavia's trade deficit. The country
has a large agricultural resource base, and its favorable climatic conditions
have fostered the growth of a well-diversified agricultural sector with a
significant potential for future development.
1.04     Yugoslavia has a unique framework of economic management and
decision-making based on a system of workers' self-management, a system
characterized by social ownership and workers' control of the means of
production. In agriculture this has led to the co-existence of social and
individual (private) sectors. About 83% of agricultural land is owned and



-2-
operated by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers making it the only
predominantly privately-owned sector of the economy. With an average family
holding of around 3.2 ha and possessing about 95% of the total agricultural
labor force, the individual sector accounts for about 85% of maize production,
60O of wheat, 75% of vegetables, and owns 90% of all livestock. A
considerable portion of production in the individual sector is, however,
retained for home consumption and contributions to marketed output are low.
The share of the individual sector in the marketed output of cereals is about
45%, with a similar situation prevailing in vegetables and fruits. In
livestock, however, a much higher proportion of individual sector output is
m.arketed. In an effort to increase income and overcome under-employment, an
increasing number of individual households are moving out of purely agri-
cultural occupations into part-time agriculture supported by non-farm sector
income.
1.05     The potential inherent in agriculture in the individual sector
received scant attention until the early 70's.  Since then, the individual
sector has received support through various forms of cooperation and
association with the social sector. The linkage between the two sectors is
provided through agricultural cooperatives (Zadrugas). Cooperation with
individual farmers is achieved through snort- or long-term production
contracts. Cooperatives sell agricultural inputs and buy agricultural outputs
from all farmers cooperating in their area of operation and provide farm
machinery services, technical advice, and credit to member farmers. The
repayment of the credit is ensured through the sale of the produce. A farmer
can have several contracts for production of different commodities. About
half of Yugoslav farmers are involved in some form of cooperation with the
social sector.
1.06     The Yugoslav food production system relies on integration of primary
agricultural production, food processing, marketing and distribution of food
products in agroindustrial complexes called agrokombinats (integrated factory
farms). The social sector controls about 17% of the total agricultural land
in the country and produces 28% of total agricultural output. Social sector
agricultural production grew 5.4% annually during 1970-1980, compared to 1.2%
for the individual sector. While social sector growth has been impressive in
absolute terms, production efficiency needs improving. Overall, about 85% of
total investment funds in agriculture still flow to the social sector.
1981-1985 Social Plan
1.07     The Federal 1981-1985 Social Plan calls for improved primary
production to satisfy domestic demand; generation ot surplus production to
promote agricultural exports; modernization and reconstruction of existing
agroindustry facilities; and utilization of currently unused and abandoned
lands through land reclamation and social sector purchase. The growth of
agricultural output has been targeted at 4.5% per year, with the social sector
planned to grow at 6% and the individual sector at 4% per year. Agriculture
is expected to play an important role in reducing the deficit in the balance
of payments. Agricultural exports are expected to grow at an annual rate of
10% by the end of the Plan, and agricultural imports to be reduced by 5% per
year. To achieve these objectives, the Plan provides for investments of Din
152 billion in 1982 prices, representing 9.6% of total investment in the
economy. Overall, the Plan represents a relatively optimistic view of
agricultural production possibilities. Policy and organizational changes well
beyond those currently set out in the Plan will be needed to achieve the
objectives.



- 3 -
1.08     The individual sector constitutes Yugoslavia's largest agricultural
resource but its modernization and reduction of the disparity between
individual farm incomes and those in the non-farm sector will be difficult to
achieve, until a satisfactory policy framework is devised to progressively
overcome the structural problems afflicting the agricultural sector.
Agricultural issues constraining development include:
(a) inadequately developed institutional arrangements and services
for the large individual sector, including restricted credit
access for individual farmers;
(b) insufficient sector investments with the individual sector and
an imbalance towards capital intensive social sector agro-
processing;
(c) the small size and fragmentation of individual sector holdings,
and
(d) weakly developed extension services for the individual sector.
C. Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector
1.09     In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia has given
increasing importance to the agricultural sector. To accelerate agricultural
growth, the Bank assisted in formulating the 1973 'Green Plan', a compre-
hensive framework for agricultural development which, for the first time,
emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector. The Bank has made
15 agricultural sector loans totalling about US$942.6 million, about 26% of
total Yugoslav loans. The strategy has been to support the development of
primary production in the individual sector in recognition of the fact that
the major output increases can be expected to come from the largest resource
block. Investments in agroindustries in the social sector which serve as the
marketing channels for farm production have also been financed under Bank
loans. This strategy has recognized the need to use investment to promote a
more equitable income distribution by raising the incomes of the rural poor,
and alleviating rural-urban migration. An agricultural sector review, terms
of reference for which have been agreed with the Government, is expected to be
completed by mid-1983. The review will be jointly financed by the Bank and
the Government and would include participation of staff from the Bank and
selected Yugoslav institutes. Future Bank lending and sector activities which
would draw on the conclusions of this report are expected to assist in the
reorientation of investment, promote institutional development and training,
and the evolution of a satisfactory policy framework. The Bank's project
investments are expected to focus on:
(a) primary production (particularly cereals and industrial crops)
in the social sector, in which it has a comparative advantage;
(b) labor intensive production (livestock, vegetables, fruits)
largely in the individual sector;
(c) agroindustry investments limited to reconstruction and
modernization;
(d) export-oriented production;
(e) research and extension services and agricultural inputs
accessible to all farmers;
(f) development-oriented banking institutions exclusively for
agriculture which would provide credit to all farmers; and
(g) training of farmers, and staff engaged in research, extension
and cooperative work, and
(h) training of banking institution staff.



1.10     The proposed loan would be the fourth Bank loan in Kosovo in the
agricultural sector and the sixteenth Bank loan for Yugoslav agriculture and
agroindustries.  The project objectives are consistent with Yugoslav ana Bank
development strategy.
D. The Agricultural Sector and Development Issues in Kosovo
Background
1.11     Kosovo is Yugoslavia's most agrarian region:  it has the greatest
share of Gross Material Product (GMP) generated from agriculture (20%), the
highest agricultural (43%) and rural population (66%), and has overall
performance well below, and income levels some 50% of, the national average.
Household incomes in the target area are themselves only half of Kosovo's
average. This results in income levels of the target population of less than
a third of the national average. Kosovo's population growth of around 2.4%
annually is nearly treble, and population density (145 persons/km2) almost
double, the national average. Notwithstanding levels of food consumption
below the Yugoslav average, Kosovo is in net deficit for all agricultural
products except wine. Socio-economic indicators comparing Yugoslavia and
Kosovo are given in Annex 3, Table 11.
1.12     During 1970-1980, Kosovo agricultural production grew annually by
around 3.3% compared to the national average of 2.5%. Growth in 1970-1975 was
around 6% but dropped to l/. in 1975-1980, due partly to adverse weather
conditions, but also to inappropriate development policies affecting tne IS.
Throughout the decade, agricultural crop production performance was
disappointing. Livestock production growth, however, has been above the
Yugoslav average. Comparative agricultural sector performance for Yugoslavia
and Kosovo during 1970-1980 is given in Annex 3, Table 12.
1.13     In Kosovo, the social sector operates about 524,000 ha of the land
(48% of total) of which about 55% comprises comparatively unproductive
pastures and forest lands. The remaining 565,000 ha are held by about 96,600
individual farmers, with an average farm size of about 4 ha including 2.8 ha
of arable land, or only 0.4 ha per household member. Nearly 50% of
agricultural land owners hold less than 2 ha and over 75% have less than 4
ha. The social sector has benefitted from better access to investment
capital, agricultural extension, input supply and credit services.
E. Constraints to Increasing Agricultural Production
1.14     The factors constraining increased Yugoslav and Kosovo agricultural
production are similar (para. 1.06). In Kosovo, they are exacerbated by (a)
development policies which have favored the capital intensive social sector
rather than the IS where the greatest production potential remains; (b)
comparatively weakly developed IS services; (c) fragmented farms and (d)
inadequate rural road and transport systems.
1.15     The rural population is conservative, and IS production largely
traditional. Farmers have been slower in adopting modern technology than in
most other parts of Yugoslavia. Compared to the social sector, IS use of
improved seeds, agro-chemicals, and fertilizer is low. Individual sector
development potential, however, is large since it includes most of the arable



- 5 -
land. Moreover, (a) small farms have under-utilized labor reserves; (b)
proven social sector agricultural technology can, in many cases, be applied on
these farms; and (c) when given technical assistance, access to credit and
markets, and adequate supply of modern farm inputs, individual farmers have
demonstrated their ability to achieve good yields.
1.16     Rural Roads  The inadequacy of rural road transport is a constraint
on further agricultural development in the project area. The network of
existing Category 4 and 5 roads is limited to a rudimentary system of
unimproved earth tracks, many of which provide only limited horse and cart
access. Drainage is a general problem. In cases where drainage structures
are inadequate, roads are often impassable because of severe deterioration of
the road formation. At the present time, limited access to and within the
project area prevents the efficient execution of extension and marketing
activities, and slows delivery of harvested output, especially perishables,
from farms to marketing depots and processing factories. The social welfare
of the rural population is also constrained by inadequate access to schools,
health, ana administrative facilities. Field observations by the mission in
each commune verified that improvement in transport services and particularly
of the road network is a necessary and integral part of a program to increase
economic activity.
F. Kosovo 1981-1985 Development Plan
1.17     The 1981-1985 Social Plan for Kosovo projects an annual 5.7%
agricultural growth rate, 10.8% in the social sector and around 4.8% in the
IS. Based on past performance, these growth rates seem optimistic. The plan
strategy is essentially based on increasing cooperation between the individual
and social sectors. Increased productivity is to be achieved by increasing
the use of inputs such as fertilizer, improved breeds, and improved seeds.
Individual sector plans correctly stress livestock production and more
intensive crops such as vegetables and fruit. Specialized services are to be
strengthened and farmers are to benefit from special tax and credit policy
incentives. Total primary agricultural production investments over 5 years
are expected to be about Dinars 13,650 M (US$297 M), about 56% for the social
sector and 44% for the individual sector.
G. Performance Under Previous World Bank Financed
Agricultural Credit and Irrigation Projects
1.18     Since 1973, Kosovo has directly received three World Bank loans for
agriculture totalling $189 M; $99 M for two multipurpose irrigation projects
and $90 M for agro-industry and agricultural development. A further $22.9 M
was Kosovo's share under the three Yugoslav Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loans 1129, 1477, 1801-YU). Of the US$211.9 M borrowed for agricultural
development, US$84.4 M (40%) was disbursed at March 31, 1983.  The
Ibar-Lepenac Multipurpose Project (Loan 777-YU, $45 M, 1972) is fully
disbursed. Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan 1360-YU, US$54 M, 1977)
disbursements amount to USt22.3M (39%). Due to engineering and management
problems, implementation is about 2 years behind schedule, but the position is
improving and disbursements should now accelerate. Kosovo's share under
Agricultural Credit I project ($2.4 M) is fully disbursed. The Kosovo
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1993-YU) disbursements amount to
US$3.2M. Implementation is slower than expected due primarily to slow
processing of sub-loans by KBP. Disbursements under Agricultural Credits 11
and III, however, have been slow. Although funds have been nearly fully



committed, disbursements at January 31, 1983 were only t4.9 M (55%) and $2.4 M
(19%) respectively. The reasons for this are complex and include: (a) in
some cases, implementation aifficulties in disbursing loans to individual
producers; (b) inadequate follow up and sub-project supervision by Kosovska
Banka (KBP) and Basic Banks; (c) staff constraints and unsatisfactory
administrative and operational procedures within KBP, (d) and inadequate
management procedures within KBP.
1.19     While performance under previous Bank agricultural projects in Kosovo
is good compared to many other countries, it is still not satisfactory,
particularly in relation to several other sectors in Yugoslavia. Procurement
continues to be difficult, and serious problems arising from inefficient
administrative and management procedures within KBP cause delays in submission
of IBRD withdrawal applications. The government is seriously concerned about
the slow disbursement of World Bank funds. During appraisal discussions,
Government and KBP agreed to take steps to accelerate commitments and
disbursements and to strengthen KBP operational and management procedures.
1.20     While no PPAR's have as yet been prepared for agricultural projects
in Yugoslavia, lessons learned so far from Bank agricultural lending
operations in Kosovo include, inter alia, the need for: (a) project
preparation to be well advanced; (b) reducing individual sector loan
processing times; (c) stressing balanced development between primary
agricultural production and agro- processing; (d) strengthening sub-project
appraisal and supervision and improving farmer access to credit; (e)
strengthening supporting services for the IS; (f) improving staff training;
and (g) improving management and stressing the development role of the banks.
The proposed project design embodies these lessons of experience.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01     Within Kosovo, 12 of the 22 Communes (see map) were selected by the
Government for regional development as they have; (a) comparatively low per
capita incomes; (b) low social sector employment; and (c) considerable
agricultural potential and limited alternative development possibilities.
They cover an area of 485,000 ha, about 44% of the provincial total including
about 49% of the total Kosovo agricultural land. Population, Agricultural
Land and Per Capita Income by Commune is given in Annex 3, Table 11.
Population
2.02     Total project area population is 637,000 (1981) in 79,600 households
averaging 8 members each. About 30% of households are non-agricultural, 50%
are entirely agricultural, and 20% are mixed, deriving income from both farm
and non-farm sectors. The population is largely rural. Population
projections for 1985 and 1990 suggest 0.7 and 0.8 million people in the
project area with consequent implications for fooa and employment demandsi.
Employment and Incomes
2.03     The social sector (mostly non-farm employment) provides work for
30,000 persons from the total economically active population of around
160,000. Kosovo social sector employment averages 100 per 1,000 inhabitants,
but in the project area, such employment averages only 50, ranging from 29 in
Dragas to 75 in Lipljan.



-7-
Climate
2.04      The climate is continental except for the Metohija area where it is
largely Mediterranian. Annual precipitation ranges between 580 mm and 800 mm
in the main agricultural areas. Precipitation peaks in October through
December, with monthly totals ranging between 60 and 100 mm, and is lowest in
July through September, the principal growing period. Temperatures are lowest
in January, averaging below zero in most areas other than Metohija. Frost
free days number about 190 annually in Kosovo and about 216 in Metohija. In
this climate, winter cereals predominate and double cropping is not generally
possible. Supplemental irrigation can give substantial yield increases.
Topography and Soils
2.05     The generally rolling to hilly area is disected by four rivers and
surrounded by mountains reaching as high as 2,800 m. The major agricultural
areas are the river valleys ranging in altitude from 300 to 700 m above sea
level. Only Dragas, a mountainous commune with a small area of valley soil,
is outside the river systems, the plains ot which cover 1,500 km2 (30%)
within tne 12 communes. Rolling and hilly areas occupy a further 2,000 km2
(40%) and the mountains account for the remaining 1,354 km2 (30%). Alluvial
soil areas vary from poorly drained clays to silts, in some cases, overlying
gravels. They are generally moderately acid, deficient in nitrogen and
phosphorus, but with adequate potassium. If adequately drained and
fertilized, these could produce satisfactory annual and perennial crop
yields. Soils in the rolling areas are mostly suited to annual crop
production. Steeper areas, where cultivation is constrained by steepness,
shallow soils or rock outcrops, are best suited to pasture and meadows for
livestock production.
Water Resources
2.06     Both surface and groundwater resources are generally adequate for
agricultural needs, although availability is seasonal and summer shortages
occur. The five main river systems, Metohija, Beli Drim, Ibar-Sitnica,
Lepenac, and Morava, have an average flow of 100 to 150 m3/sec. Groundwater
resources, not yet fully explored, include three main types of aquifers.
These resources are being studied under a program financed in Loan 1993-YU.
Land Use
2.07     The project area has about 175,000 ha under cultivation distributed
by sector and crop as shown in Table 1 below:



- 8 -
Table 1:   Project Area Cultivated Land Use
Sector              Total
Crop                        Individual   Social
------------'(000 ha--------------
Cereals                                109.U  75    11.0  38   120.0  69
Industrial crops                         2.5   2       4.3  15      6.8   4
Vegetables and potatoes                 10.5   7       0.1  -      10.6   6
Fodder crops                            16.4  11       1.5   5    17.9  10
Orchards                                 4.5   3       6.0  20    10.5   6
Vineyards                                3.0   2       6.4  22 !    9.4   5
Total                              145.9 100    29.3 100   175.2 100
7%                 83           17           100
2.08      Current land use in Kosovo and the project area by sector is shown in
Annex 3, Table 13. Crop yields by sector vary considerably according to soil
and elevation.
Livestock
2.09     About 95% of farm households own cattle, 18% own sheep and, in
certain areas, about 14% have pigs. Since the total livestock population
consists of about 190,000 cattle, 170,000 sheep, and 20,000 pigs, most cattle
and'sheep units comprise less than 50 head and are integrated mixed cropping
livestock farms. Pig production is based on two or three sows fed on
household food wastes and crop by-products. The only specialized livestock
units are the larger sheep flocks on pasture lands, and mini dairy farms
developed under World Bank agricultural credit projects.  During the last 5
years cattle numbers have declined slightly; sheep and pigs declined up to
around 1979 but have since increased.
Fertilizer, Agro-Chemicals, and Farm Inputs
2.10      Fertilizer consumption on cropped land probably averages about 300
kg/ha which is less than the Kosovo average (about 330 kg/ha).  Little or no
fertilizer is used on meadows and pastures. Fertilizer and seed distribution
during the last five years in the project area was as follows:
1977       1978       1979       1980        1981
…-----------------…tons--------------------
Fertilizer                  25,700    29,323      27,689    34,775    42,243
Seed - Wheat                 1,690      2,760      *l,960      1,872      n.a.
Maize                  930      1,630       2,030        233      n.a.
Fertilizer and agro-chemicals are distributed through 73 cooperative depots
(average 8.8 settlements and 2,000 ha of cultivation per depot). Quantities
available vary, and although average consumption is low, areas exist where
fertilizer consumption is high. Deliveries tend to be irregular as factory
and cooperative storage space is restricted. The peak usage periods are
during the wheat planting in October-November, and maize planting in
May-June. Most fertilizer stores are poor quality and too small. Farmers



travel up to 25 km to collect supplies. Agro-chemicals, herbicides,
veterinary medicines, and livestock concentrate feed are also sold through
cooperative retail outlets. All farmers may purchase from these outlets.
Seasonal credit, however, is available only to those formally "associated"
with the cooperative.  "Associated"!! tarmers, who account for only 13% of
farmer households, agree to sell their basic crops only through the
cooperatives which in turn resell to the Agro-Kombinats, especially
Zitopromet. Furthermore, the density of cooperative depots is not sufficient
to provide most farmers with reasonable access to these input supplies. An
additional constraint is rural access roads, which, in too many cases, are
anything but all-weather, even for horse-drawn transport. Seed supplies are
obtained from other parts of Yugoslavia, tested in Kosovo by the Bio-technical
Institute, and multiplied on social sector farms for distribution. A new seed
preparation and cleaning plant in Klina with 20,000 tons annual capacity is
expected to become operational in 1982 and to supply most of the Kosovo seed
needs.
Rural Roads
2.11     Kosovo has an institutional structure for the construction and
maintenance of roads similar to arrangements in other Republics. National
highways and regional roads are the responsibility of the Provincial Self
Management Community of Interest (SIZ) for Roads. Local roads are the
responsibility of the Commune Governments which have their own SIZ for Roads.
Village and farm roads are the responsibility of the local communities.
2.12     The Provincial SIZ in Kosovo is well staffed with engineers and other
professionals for the performance of its organizational, management and
supervisory role. It does not have any direct implementing or operational
responsibilities as its work, both maintenance and construction, is carried
out under contract by other organizations. The Commune SIZ's are less well
staffed, although most do employ or have access to professional staff, either
from a provincial organization such as the Provincial SIZ, from special
professional advisory enterprises set up by a Province or Republic, or from
consultants. Kosovo Province also has a Work Organization for roads (PUT)
which carries out under contract the maintenance work for the SIZ on the
highway and regional roads. In addition it bids for, and frequently wins,
construction or improvement contracts let by SIZ for this same road network.
Most communes have parallel arrangements for the carrying out of the
construction and maintenance work on their roads.
/1  'Associated' farmers are those who have formerly pledged, on a long-term
basis, their land and labor to associate with an Organization of
Agriculturalists (OA); 'cooperants' are regarded as all other farmers who
cooperate in various ways with an OA or social sector organization, such
as hiring machinery, growing a particular crop on an annual contract
basis, purchasing fertilizer, and so on.



- 10 -
2.13      Finances for works on local roads are raised from a number of sources
including (i) allocations from the commune's budget; (ii) taxes on salaried
employment; (iii) contributions from cooperatives and social sector
enterprises; (iv) taxes levied on farmers and other self-employed persons; (v)
registration fees for vehicles, and (vi) contributions by villagers. These
funds are distributed among construction and maintenance road programs by the
commune governments. However, in the past, the tendency has been to
concentrate on construction of new roads or upgrading existing roads and tc,
neglect the maintenance needs of the rest of the road system. This has
resulted in a significant back-log of maintenance work and in many cases
caused roads to deteriorate to a stage where they are only passable during dry
seasons or they are extremely rough and, accordingly, result in high transport
costs and appreciable crop losses at times. For transport services to rural
areas to be improved and made more reliable, it is imperative that more
attention and resources are allocated to the maintenance of existing roads
III. KOSOVSKA BANKA, PRISTINA
(The Borrower)
3.01      Kosovska Bank, Pristina (KBP) is the major lender for agriculture and
industry in Kosovo; about 90% of all institutional financing is being
channelled through KBP.
3.02      KBP is an Associated Bank comprising 7 Basic Banks (BB) throughout
Kosovo (3 are in the project area) and the headquarters (KBP) in Pristina.
The Banking Law limits the Associated Bank's banking functions to those mainly
involving foreign borrowing and exchange transactions. The BBs, however,
carry out all other banking functions. KBP is the borrower under the
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1993-YU, US$90 M), is a participating
bank in the first, second and third agricultural credit projects (Loans 1129,
1477, 1801-YU, US$29.2 M), is the channel for funds disbursed under the
Ibar-Lepenac (Loan 777-YU, US$45 M) and the Metohija Multipurpose projects
(Loan 1360-YU, US$54 M) and the Industrial Credit lines. Within the framework
of the Kosovo social plan, KBP is the major lender for agricultural and
industrial projects; about 90% of all Kosovo institutional financing is being
channelled through KBP. An organization chart is given in Annex 4, Chart 1.
A. Resource Mobilization
3.03      Like most Associated Banks throughout Yugoslavia, KBP dominates the
mobilization and allocation of financial resources in the Province. KBP is
the primary channel for disbursing the proceeds of the "Federal Fund for the
development of the Least Developed Regions" which is the source of about 60%
of the funds invested in Kosovo. In addition KBP is solely responsible for
mobilizing financial resources from foreign sources and handling of foreign
exchange portions of investment projects. During the plan period 1976-80, KBP
was responsible for financing investment projects amounting to Dinar 68.4
billion ($3.6B). The investments planned in the Medium Term Plan for 1981-85
for the Province amounts to Dinar 137.3B ($3.9B) in 1981 prices. The main
source of finance will continue to be FNP which will provide Dinar 86B (63%)
of the investments planned. Foreign funding including IBRD is expected to
provide Dinar 23B (17%). KBP will be associated with the authorization,
financing and implementation of no less than 90% of the 1981-85 Kosovo
investment plan.



- 11 -
B. Financial Performance
3.04     KBP's financial policy is not to generate maximum profits, but to
provide services, especially to the 'founding investors', at the lowest cost
consistent with maintaining equity and covering operating expenses. in its
role as the Associated Bank of Kosovo, it also has the responsibility for
allocating financial resources in the Province, particularly the FNP funds.
KBP's financial and operational performance is considered below with reference
to those policy objectives. Key financial and operating data for the period
1979-81 are given in Annex 4, Tables 1 - b.
3.05     Loan Operations.  KBP has maintained a satisfactory record in the
provision of financial resources to its members. KBP's total loan portfolio
(Annex 4, Table 4) increased from Din 50 B in 1979 to Din 97 B in 1981 (95%).
However, the real increase was just over 1%. Within this total, short-term
loans, which provide working capital needs of enterprises, increased from Din
13.b B in 1979 to Din 21.6 B in 1981 (59%)(real decrease of 20%) and long-term
loans, wnich provide mainly long-term capital investment needs of enterprises
more than doubled from Din 36 B to Din 75 B (real increase of 9%). During
1979-81 loan approvals for agriculture and agro-industry (Annex 4, Table 6)
increased nearly five-fold from Din 1.5 B to Din 7.1 B representing a real
increase of 59% annually. The agricultural loan commitments were made
predominantly to the social sector with only about 11% of the 1981 total
allocated to the individual sector.
3.06     Resource Position.  The growth in the loan portfolio was financed
from long-term borrowing which increased by Din 31.7 B (98%) from 1979-1981.
Federal and Republic funds remained the largest sources of finance and
accounted for about 65% of the long-term borrowings in 1981 (80% in 1979).
KBP's foreign currency borrowings and deposits increased five-fold from Din
4.5 B in 1979 to Din 21.5 B in 1961 (118% annually).
3.07     Profit Performance.  Income and Expense Statements for 1978 through
1981 are presented in Annex 4, Table 3. Given KBP's stated objectives, profit
performance has been satisfactory, although 1981 registered a down-turn
compared to 1980, net income declining from Din. 1,474 M (1980) to Din. 688 X
(1981), due mainly to an increase in borrowing costs. In real terms, however,
net income declined by 66%. As a percentage of interest earned, 1981 interest
paid amounted to 78% compared with about 45% for 1979-1980, indicating a
narrower interest spread. This could be due to a management decision to curb
rising profit trends, or a result of a sharp up-turn in borrowing costs.
Interest earnings accounted for some 88% of operating income in 1981.
Interest earned as a percentage of the total loan portfolio, however, shows a
declining trend from 6% in 1979 to just under 5% in 1981. Consistent with
their objective of providing banking services at the lowest cost, KBP has
managed to keep its administrative expenses as a percentage of operating
income -- just under 12% in 1981 -- fairly constant over the past years.
3.08     Financial Position.  KBP's audited Balance Sheets for 1979-1981 are
given in Annex 4, Table 1 and key financial ratios and growth indicators in
Annex 4, Table 2. Yugoslav banks do not have formal financial policies
concerning their operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to equity
ratio. The bank, however, generally follows prudent banking practices. KBP
has maintained its key financial ratios although some of its foreign
obligations have been serviced by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and some of
the Dinar debt to the Federal Fund has been rescheduled. KBP's total assets



- 12 -
reached Din 113.4 B by the end of 1981 with long-term loan investments
accounting for 67% of total assets.  KBP's liquidity position is acceptable,
with a current ratio at the end of 1981 near 1.1. KBP's debt/equity ratio was
around 9 in 1979-80, and registered an increase to 11.5 in 1981. Given the
proportion of Federal and Republic funds (which have more the character of
managed funds) included in the total debt, the ratio remains satisfactory.
C. Arrears
3.09     The portfolio affected by arrears increased from Din 20.2 B to 30 B
(50%) from 1979-1981. The maturities in arrears over 3 months at December
1981 amounted to Din 3.2B or 4.3% of the total long-term loans outstanding.
As a result of mutual unlimited responsibility of members, overdue loans will
be either rescheduled or enterprises which experience loss or financial
difficulties will be rehabilitated with no loss to the bank. Due to this
practice, the actual loan write-offs have been negligible in the past.
Nevertheless, KBP needs to pay more attention to improving the quality of its
portfolio and maintaining the arrears within a reasonable level (about 2%) of
outstanding long term portfolio. Improving KBP's practices, performance and
orientation are major objectives of the proposed project.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
4.01     The proposed Project would be the first Bank financed program aimed
exclusively at promoting individual agricultural sector development in
Yugoslavia.  This represents the first integrated approach to rural regional
development in the Province.  It specifically addresses the low productivily
of the individual sector, a factor that has contributed significantly to thle
chronic underdevelopment of the region. The Project's objective is to focuas
on the 12 least developed Communes, to: (a) increase agricultural production;
(b) improve rural incomes and employment opportunities; (c) increase capacity
utilization of existing agro-processing facilities; (d) increase individuaL
farm sector incomes; and (e) reduce income disparity between less developed
and more developed Communes, and between the individual and social sectors.
The strategy would be to use an integrated regional development approach to:
(i)    increase IS on-farm investments for livestock, crop, fruit and
vegetable production;
(ii)   finance cooperative incremental fertilizer purchases for sale
to small farmers;
(iii)  strengthen and improve provincial services including marketing
opportunities for IS farmers;
(iv)   upgrade farm access roads and provide for their improved
maintenance;
(v)    support tne Kosovo land consolidation program by providing
additional equipment for the Geodetic Bureau and technical
assistance in land consolidation to 2 communes;
(vi)   improve rural communications by providing equipment and staff
training for the Kosovo radio stations; and



- 13 -
(vii) contribute to institution building within KBP, the Federation
of Cooperatives (FC), and IED, as well as other provincial services
including agricultural extension, veterinary, and cooperatives.
B. Description
4.02     The project would consist of an investment and agricultural credit
program, extending over 5 years. Sub-project commitments would be concluded
in 4 years and disbursements within 5 years (Annex 2).
1.       Primary Production Investments
(a) Irrigation and Drainage
4.03     Irrigation development would entail the reconstruction and expansion
of an antiquated 4,UO0 ha irrigation scheme consisting entirely of earth
canals and a temporary weir which has to be reconstructed annually.
Considering the type of system, past maintenance has been satisfactory.  The
current system is probably over a century old, involving the diversion of
water from the Decani-Bistrica river into earth canals with inefficient flood
systems of water application. The project would enable existing water to be
more efficiently used and would significantly expand the area to be
irrigated. It would include: construction of a diversion weir including 7
hours night storage capacity on the Decani-Bistrica river with spillway and
shute; the laying of primary (23.2 km), secondary (69.8 km), and tertiary (400
km) conduits to deliver 1 liter/second/ha for sprinkler irrigation with a
pressure of 3.5 atm at the nozzle; drainage on about 600 ha and soil
improvement on about 1,000 ha; construction of the necessary service roads to
support the agricultural development; and provision of staff for the BOAL
Bistrica for construction, supervision, and scheme management. About 1,200
individual farmers in the irrigation sub-project area, each with an average
farm size of about 3.0 hectares, would be supplied with mobile sprinklers and
other irrigation equipment on credit. The base investment cost including a
15% physical contingency but excluding price contingencies, is estimated at
24,000/ha (December, 1982 prices). Strengthening of the planning and advisory
capacity of the SOUR Water Economy-Pristina (Annex 5, Chart 1) would include
tne local financing of three additional professional posts for three years
(para. 5.24).
4.04     Drainage and flood control development would involve drainage works
on a selected area of about 1,140 ha, and related watershed flood control and
anti-erosion works in Vitina Commune. The main outlet drain is already
completed, and project investments would be secondary canals, underground
drainage and watershed erosion control, together with land consolidation.
About 560 families would benefit directly. PIRO Agro-Morava would be the
implementing entity. The drainage work with land consolidation, is estimated
to cost about $2,120/ha including a 15% physical contingency.
4.05     Maintenance.  Improvement of maintenance capabilities is also an
important objective of this sub-component of the project. Under this
sub-loan, the BOAL Bistrica would be required to ensure that its BOAL -
Hydroeconomy - would employ suitable staff in adequate numbers for operation
and maintenance of the investment project to ensure the continued availability
of future water supplies.



- 14 -
(b) On-Farm Development Credit
4.06     Development credit would be limited to IS farmers.  It would be a
continuation of similar investments made under previous Kosovan agricultural
projects including the three national agricultural credit projects. The
project would provide for investments in labor intensive activities designed
to increase production of meat, milk, fruit, grapes, honey and vegetables.
Investments would include improved livestock (sheep, dairy, pigs, beef, bees),
animal housing and respective equipment, pasture and meadow improvement,
orchard and vineyard establishment, and agricultural machinery.  Loans for
some 300 farmers from villages deficient in tractors and attachments would be
provided with contracting units comprising a 40-h.p. tractor and attachments
at a total cost of about $20,000 per set.
4.07     An additional 400 farmers in other areas would purchase supplementary
equipment for existing tractors to lengthen the contracting season and provide
services to neighbors. The equipment would include fertilizer distributors,
ploughs, harrows, mowers, side-rakes, trailers, sprayers, potato diggers, and
hay balers. In selected areas where groundwater resources are adequate, about
400 farmers would receive credit to construct wells or a pumping platform with
water access, to install diesel powered pumps and delivery pipes and
sprinklers.
4.08     The total number of loans is expected to be about 5,000.  Also, about
11,600 individual sector farm families would benefit from increased fertilizer
use, agro-chemicals and other modern technological inputs which would assist
them to diversify crop production and increase incomes. The actual number of
investments for each farm type would be kept flexible according to market
conditions and individual demands. Project appraisal, however, has been based
on sub-loan numbers as follows: dairy 1,500, sheep 700; small-scale
irrigation 400; orchards 1,800; mechanization 700; and 12,600 rainfed crop
farms involving annual inputs and technological changes only. Key assumptions
used for preparation of farm models are given in Annex 3, Table 5.
(c) Incremental Credit for Fertilizer
4.09     The project would help finance incremental fertilizer inputs targeted
at the individual sector farmers. Current consumption in Kosovo is about
116,000 tons per year, about 197 kg per ha of agricultural land. About 70% of
fertilizer use is in the individual sector. To encourage increased fertilizer
solely for use by the individual sector, the project would finance an
estimated incremental 36,000 tons over the five year period of the project.
Fertilizer financed under the project would be made available to all the
Organizations of Agriculturalists (OA's)i/ in Kosovo. Fertilizer prices in
Yugoslavia to farmers are 15% higher than current world prices. Currently,
there is no direct subsidy of fertilizer prices to farmers by the Government.
Kosovo, however, provides a grant of 10% to Provincial fertilizer factories to
defray the manufacturing costs for that portion of fertilizer they make which
is distributed and sold in Kosovo.
1/  Organizations of Agriculturalists are associations of individual farmers
grouped into agricultural cooperatives, basic cooperative organizations
or basic organizations of cooperants, all of which are associated legally
with the Federation of Cooperatives.



- 15 -
2.        Farm Service and Marketing Investments
(a) Cooperative Agri-service Centers
4.10     To improve input availability, market access and the range of
services provided by cooperatives, about 36 Agri-service Centers, one run by
each OA in the project area, and about 60 smaller depots would be constructed
or rehabilitated. Each would include fertilizer and grain storage capacity;
offices for managers and agricultural extension agents; dangerous goods
storage; fuel pumps and space for pharmaceutical and veterinary supply
storage. Where applicable, the centers and depots would include a milk
collection center. About 30 such milk collection centers would be included.
Each OA would have a headquarters maxicenter of some 400 m2. In addition,
where population and production within a 5 km radius are sufficient, midi- and
mini-depots of about 150 m2 or 50 m2 would be built. The services
provided from these locations would vary according to local requirements.
Location would also be determined by the improved rural road program, the
objective being that over 85% of farmers would travel no more than 5 km to a
depot. Final center and depot locations for construction and rehabilitation
would be subject to FC approval. The depots would be administered from the
Agri-service Center, with an average ratio of 2 - 3 depots per center.
Overall these Agri-service Centers are expected to play an important role in
promoting individual sector modernization.
(b) Veterinary and Artificial Insemination (AI)
4.11     Investment to improve access to animal health and Al services would
include construction of 5 new veterinary stations, rehabilitation of about 20
existing stations and 10 depots, and the construction of around 20 simple
shelters for Al. Investments would include veterinary equipment and, to
increase staff mobility, 24 small cars. Close coordination between the
cooperative and veterinary organizations would ensure the most convenient
siting of Agri-service Centers, veterinary and related stations.
(c) Agricultural Extension
4.12     Kosovo individual sector agricultural extension services are provided
by OA's, of which 36 currently operate in the project area. Agricultural
extension throughout Kosovo is inadequate, characterized by staff shortages,
lack of training, absence of clear definition of functions, and inadequate
management. Although the existing project area ratio of staff to farm
households, 1 to 700, appears favorable, these numbers include managers and
non-extension personnel. Furthermore, the 30 staff who are primarily
extension workers are multi-purpose personnel who also prepare credit
applications, do survey and planning work, sometimes sell inputs, and do
cooperative administrative work. Consequently, contact between extension
staff and farmers is limited mainly to associated farmers. IS links with
research are ad hoc and the few demonstration plots are confined to hybrid
maize.
4.13     Under the project, FC would take steps to strengthen extension
services by: (a) introducing a division of functions and responsibility
between Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) and Extension Agents (EAs) at the
commune level; (b) upgrading skills of SMS, EAs, and Cooperative Managers, by
providing both initial and in-service training; (c) strengthening FC through
the employment of a range of specialists (para 4.17); (d) dividing FC



- 16 -
functions between administrative and development divisions; (e) regular
reporting, staff supervision, and feed-back; (f) promoting employment of
female SMS and EAs. Assurances that these organizational reforms would
proceed were obtained from FC during negotiations.
4.14     The criteria used for determining the numbers of SMS and EA would be
based on: (a) the level of agricultural practices and needs; (b) the commune
agricultural area; (c) the number, size, and dispersion of settlements; (d)
the percentage of commune population dependent on agriculture; and (e) project
components and phasing. Depending on these factors, eacn OA would ultimately
have between 2 - 3 SMS, and 2 - 3 EAs who would be stationed at cooperative
depots. Special efforts are being made to recruit women SMS and EAs so that,
after 5 years, at least 10% of SMS and 20% of EAs would be women. This is
important as women undertake a significant part of the farm work in
Yugoslavia. The salary cost of SMS and EA would be met by the Provincial
Government, Commune, and OA in the ratio of 50:30:20. Short-term
international consultants to conduct special training in agricultural
extension and cooperative management would also be employed by FC for a total
of 15 man-months, estimatea to cost $10,000/month. International training
would be provided for the Extension Director and Rural Communications
Specialist. Assurances that FC would employ these consultants in accordance
with Bank Guidelines were obtained during negotiations.
4.15     Investment costs over 5 years would include vehicles (160), office
furniture and equipment, visual aid equipment, and international technical
assistance and training. All SMS, EA and Coop managers would attend annuaL
in-service training courses--minimum 2 weeks--conducted in conjunction with
FA, FC specialists, and other research institutes. The number of on-farm
demonstration plots would be greatly expanded to around 2,000.
Rural Communications
4.16     Including Radio Pristina, 6 Kosovo radio stations currently operale
and a seventh is planned. To improve their effectiveness, the quantity and
quality of agricultural radio programs, especially for IS farmers, would bea
improved. FC, with the assistance of RTV, would conduct an attitude survey
throughout Kosovo to provide a basis for producing programs both acceptable to
and effective with individual farm families. A rural communications
specialist (RCS) would be employed by FC (para 4.17), trained abroad, and
would be responsible for advising FC and Radio-TV Pristina (RTV) on rural
communications. The RCS would also be a member of the Media Strategy
Committee established under the project to advise the radio stations on
agricultural programming, and to effectively coordinate project activities and
mass media extension. In addition to the international consultant, project
investments would include new equipment and vehicles for the six radio
stations.
Federation of Cooperatives (FC)
4.17     The Federation, established in 1977, is responsible for promoting
cooperative development in the individual sector agriculture. Under the
project, FC would coordinate day-to-day project implementation (Annex 5, Chart
1,). Strengthening the effectiveness of FC as a development institution would
be a major project objective. Assurances were obtained that by December 30,
1983, FC would appoint 13 specialists--extension, credit, field crops,



- 17 -
horticulture, livestock, agricultural economics, civil engineering,
pasture/meadow, training, statisticians, translators, and rural
communications. Investments financed under the project would include 10
vehicles, office furniture and equipment, and a 500 m2 office building.
Salaries and operating costs of the above Development Division's thirteen
staff would be paid from the Provincial Budget.
Credit Service Improvement - KBP
4.18     To enhance the effectiveness of KBP as a development institution, the
project would support a comprehensive program of increased staffing, advisory
services and training. A proposal was drafted by KBP management on "Measures
to be Undertaken for Improvement of the Management of KBP with the World Bank"
(October 18, 1982) and submitted to the World Bank. Many of the improvements
suggested by the World Bank have been included as recommendations in this
submission. To advise KBP on procedures necessary to strengthen management,
improve loan processing and development-oriented services, KBP would appoint,
as a condition of effectiveness, a suitably qualified development banking
advisor under terms of reference satisfactory to the IBRD.
4.19     KBP's present loan application and disbursement procedures and
supervision practices would also be improved under the Project. KBP would
analyze the procedures for loans to the individual sector (from farmer through
BB, KBP and Credit Board to farmer) and simplify and shorten the appraisal
process. Specific improvements proposed were submitted to the IBRD (para
5.12). Assurances that the agreed recommendations would be implemented, were
obtained during negotiations. A similar review of disbursement procedures
would be undertaken, particularly regarding withdrawal applications for funds
from the IBRD.
4.20     KBP's project supervision capacity would also be improved under the
Project. Currently, social sector investments are supervised on an ad-hoc
basis. Since, however, contact between KBP staff and the Working
Organizations and Enterprises throughout Kosovo is regular, individual KBP
staff do have some knowledge of sub-project implementation status. No formal
procedure exists, however, by which KBP staff regularly visit sub-projects,
prepare reports, analyze issues and bring these to management's attention.
Especially in the IS, KBP management has little current knowledge of
sub-project implementation status. Supervision of IS sub-loans is done
largely by OA's, but OA staff are not trained in agricultural credit,
appraisal, and supervision. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
KBP would prepare a program for regularly supervising all agricultural
sub-projects to be submitted to IBRD for review and comment by August 31,
1983, and that an agreed program would be implemented.
Rural Roads
4.21     The project includes a program of improvements for existing local
roads to support the economic and social development of the area. This
component is a vital and integral part of the overall development program. A
total of about 700 km of existing roads have been selected in twelve communes
on the basis of (i) area of agricultural land served and cropping intensity;
(ii) numbers of households and population served; (iii) estimated input
tonnages; (iv) estimated output tonnages; (v) siting of existing and proposed
agri-service centers; (vi) social factors, and (vii) the resulting estimated
traffic volumes and types. This information is included in the Project File.
The works to be undertaken will be rehabilitation and upgrading to minimal



- 18 -
standards sufficient to ensure year-round trafficability. The standards to be
used will be four meter wide gravel pavement on a six meter wide formation,
with side drainage channels, cut-off drains and culverts to provide good
drainage. A few short bridges are also included to provide all-weather
crossings of permanently flowing streams. As traffic develops in future and
available local resources permit, some of these roads may be upgraded to paved
(asphalt) standard. During the course of project implementation, as traffic
projections, detailed engineering and accurate cost estimates are prepared for
the second and subsequent year programs, a few of the project roads--perhaps
up to 20%--may be economically justifiable at paved standard initially. In
that case, provided the additional funds to meet the increased cost are
provided from local resources, these roads will be built to paved standard.
The project will also provide a grader for the maintenance of its class 4 and
5 roads for each of the 12 communes to be included in the project.
4.22     The estimated unit costs of road construction to gravel standard,
including drainage and culverts is $35,400 per kilometer, including 15%
physical contingency and excluding bridges and price contingencies (December
1982). The project cost estimates also include about $2.5M for bridge
construction. Villagers and their communes usually contribute 20% for
upgrading roads, sometimes in cash but mostly in labor. It is expected that
20% of the cost of the road construction and upgrading under this project will
be contributed by the communes.
4.23     Regarding the maintenance of the commune's local road networks,
provisions under this project will ensure the availability of the required
funds for adequate maintenance and of a suitable organization to carry out the
maintenance work. The Government has agreed to provide for each commune,
annual estimates of funds needed for the adequate maintenance of the local
road networks and the sources and annual estimates of funds to be provided for
commune road maintenance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
KBP will not enter into sub-loans with any participating commune under this
component until an agreement is obtained with that commune to (i) designate
suitble organizations to be the sub-borrowers for the construction and
equipment sub-loans, respectively; (ii) establish or nominate a particular,
suitable organization to carry out the road maintenance program; (iii)
establish and maintain a Commune Road Fund with separate accounts for
construction and maintenance, and (iv) provide evidence of adequate sources of
funds for road maintenance; and that the first such agreement between the
Borrower and a commune would be made available to the World Bank for review
and comment before it is finalized and used as a model for future such
agreements.
Land Consolidation
4.24     During the 1981-85 Social Plan, Kosovo proposes to consolidate land
holdings on about 30,000 ha of irrigated land and some 5,000 ha of rain-fed
land, most of which is individually owned, as a first phase of a long-term
consolidation program. Priority is to be given to land within two World Bank
assisted irrigation projects (Ibar-Lepenac, Loan 777-YU, Metohija
Multipurpose, Loan 1360-YU) on a net area of about 40,000 ha. Each Commune
establishes a Consolidation Commission responsible for obtaining agreement
from the majority of farmers (minimum 51%), completing initial cadastral



- 19 -
surveys, classifying and valuing the land, allocating new holdings, overseeing
physical works such as boundary clearing and road consTruction, completing
final surveys, hearing appeals and issuing new titles- . The Kosovo Bureau
for Geodetic and Photogrammetric Work is responsible for all cadastral survey
work. To complete the proposed program in an efficient and timely manner, it
requires new and additional equipment which would be financed under the
project. During 1982-86 it is expected that about 35,000 ha in the 4 Communes
affected by the Ibar-Lepenac scheme will be finally consolidated. The project
would also finance part of the survey, clearing, boundary marking, and road
construction program on about 11,400 ha involving about 3,800 farm families in
the project area Communes of Vucitrn and Glogovac. The land consolidation
feasibility studies prepared for these two Communes would be submitted to IBRD
by October 31, 1983. An assurance to this effect was obtained from Kosovo
during negotiations.
C. Status of Design and Project Implementation
4.25      Project implementation began in late 1982.  Disbursements are
expected to begin shortly after loan effectiveness. Social sector projects
(agri-service centers, rural roads, drainage and irrigation, etc.) are in an
advanced stage of final design and tendering.   The FC's have begun to recruit
specialist staff to undertake the program of developing loan applications from
the individual sector for processing by KBP.
4.26      Draft tender documentation for the subprojects subject to
International Competitive Bidding were submitted at negotiations. Following
suggested revisions, final drafts will be submitted for IBRD approval in early
April 1983. Detailed designs for typical rural roads and agri-service centers
were reviewed at negotiations and, with some amendments agreed with the
Borrower, found to be acceptable. At negotiations, the Bank approved the
Borrower's recommendations for the lowest evaluated bidder to undertake the
final engineering designs for the Decane Irrigation subproject, which are
expected to be completed and ready for contract tendering in late 1983.
D. Cost Estimates
4.27      Total project cost, including permanent working capital, physical and
price contingencies, including interest during construction and front-end fee,
is estimated at US$170.7M (Dinars 10,819.4M) of which 51.8% or $88.5M would be
the foreign exchange component. Taxes and duties estimated at US$2.9 are
included in the project cost. Unit costs have been based on June 1982 Dinar
estimates, and updated to December 1982 to reflect the effects of
international price escalation of 3.9% for that period. Foreign exchange
costs have also been updated to reflect the impact of the Dinar devaluation in
October 1982. A summary of project cost estimates are shown in Table 2.
Average physical contingencies of 9Z of base cost (range 5-25%), and price
contingencies for 1982 to 198b, which are 21% of base cost plus physical
contingencies, have been included. International price contingencies have
been computed annually at 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0%
for 1986-87. Cost estimates are made in USt, since the Government has decided
to maintain the competitiveness of exports by adjusting the value of the Dinar
to compensate for differences in domestic and international price movements.
Detailed project cost and phasing tables are given in Annex lb, Tables 1 and 2;
/1 More background and detail on the land consolidation process is given in
Working Paper C-9.



- 20 -
project cost and phasing (in Dinars) using local price contingencies is given
in Annex lb, Table 3; a project cost summary using local price contingencies
is given in Annex lb, Table 4. Details of individual investment models are
given in Working Paper C-1 and the FAO/WB Cooperative Program preparation
report dated July, 1982 (Project File).
Table 2: Project Cost Summary 1/
Z of
Foreign    I of Total
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Base Costs
-----    Din Mil--------    -------U5 Mi
A. On-farm investmenits            1,563.2  1,166.5   2,729.7        24.6       18.4      43.0         43         38.5
B. Rural roads                      878.5      641.3   1,519.8       13.8       10.1      23.9         42         21.4
C. Agricultural cooperative
centers                          194.1      148.8      342.9       3.1       2.3        5.4        43           4.8
D. Land consolidation                 75.8     101.0       176.8      1.2        1.6       2.8         57          2.5
E. Irrigation rehabilitation         321.9    696.0   1,017.9         5.1       11.0      16.0         68         14.4
F. Drainage and flood control    88.3           67.3       155.6      1.4        1.1       2.5         43          2.2
G. Radio - rural
communications                     -         46.0       46.0       -         0.7        0.7       100           0.6
H. Institute of Economic
Development                        0.5        3.6        4.1       -         0.1        0.1        87           0.1
J. Fertilizer credit                  89.1    436.2       525.3       1.4        6.9       8.3         83          7.4
J. Federation of cooperatives         12.2      29.5        41.7      0.2        0.5       0.7         71          0.6
K. Animal health                      16.2      15.3        31.6      0.3        0.2       0.5         49           0.4
L. KBP - credit service
improvement                        1.8       15.3       17.1       -         0.2       0.3         90           0.2
M. Extension service                  34.3      32.3        66.6      0.5        0.5       1.0         49          0.9
N. Incremental working
capital                          413.7         -       413.7       6.5        -         6.5         -           5.8
Total baseline costs              3,689.6  3,399.2    7,088.8    55.5           53.5     111.6         48        100.0
Physical contingencies            327.1    313.4        640.5       5.2       4.9       10.1        50           9.0
Price contingencies               788.3      675.5    1,463.8      12.4      10.6       23.0        46          20.6
Total project costs               4,805.0  4,388.1   9,193.2         75.7      69.1      144.8         48        129.7
Interest during
construction 2/                    409.5  1,184.4   1,593.9          6.5      18.8       25.3           -          -
Front end fee on the Bank
loan                                  -        37.0       37.0        -        0.59       0.59      100
Total project financial
requirements                     5,211.7, 5,607.6  10,819.4         82.2      88.5      170.7         52
/1 Costs at December, 1982. based on Annex 1B, Tables 1 and 2 (exchange rate Din 63 - US$1.00)
2/  International price contingencies were used as follows 1983 - 8%, 1984 - 7.5X. 1985 - 7Z,
1986 - 6%, 1987 - 6%.



- 21 -
E. Financing
4.28     The loan would be made to KBP for 15 years including 3 years grace.
KBP would on-lend the proceeds to the sub-borrowers in accordance with the
terms in paras. 5.18 and 5.19. The financing plan is shown in Table 3 below.
The proposed Bank loan of US$79.0 million would finance 89% of foreign
exchange costs including interest during construction, and 46% of total
financing requirements. Financing of interest during construction for the
infrastructure components of the project for up to five years is justified by
the financial requirements of the sub-borrowers. Project investments in
irrigation, drainage, agri-service centers, and rural roads have long
gestation periods and slow build up of cash flows. Without the inclusion of
this provision, the cash flow positions of these sub-borrowers during the
construction period would be imprudently stretched. The addition of the
front-end fee on the Bank loan would make total IBRD financing of $79.0. By
November 30, 1983 and thereafter each year, the Borrower would submit to IBRD
for review a financing plan for the Program to be financed in the subsequent
year. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. This
annual review of future financing would take account of prevailing inflation.
Most of the Bank loan would be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment
schedule, reflecting the composite repayments of subloans by the
sub-borrowers. Since IS loans are grouped together and made through
cooperatives, an adjustable repayment schedule can be used for these
subloans. The remaining balance of this loan would be repaid on the basis of
a fixed amortization schedule.
Table 3. Project Financing Plan
Interest                 Total
Total    During       Front End   Project         % Share
Project  Construc-   Fee on        Financial      in Funds
Cost     tion         Bank Loan   Requirements  Required
---------------------------SM~K-----------------------
Funds required           144.8       25.3         0.59         170.7          100
Funding sources
IBRD                    69.0        9.4        0.59          79.0           46
KBP (Federal Fund)      42.8       15.9          -           58.7           35
Provincial Budget        4.0        -            -            4.0            2
Sub-borrowers           29.0        -           -            29.0           17
F.  Retroactive Financing
4.29     Preparation and identification of a number of sub-projects is
advanced. So that the momentum generated during preparation and appraisal
could be maintained, costly implementation delays and the loss of one growing
season avoided, and project implementation speeded up, some preliminary
project work (roads, service centers and detailed engineering works) began in
late 1982. Expenditures undertaken are made in conformity with Bank
criteria. Financing of these expenditures for roads, agri-service centers,
and detailed engineering work from July 1, 1982 (appraisal mission departure)
up to an amount of US$6.0 million would be eligible for retroactive financing.



- 22 -
G. Disbursements
4.30     The disbursement of the proposed Bank loan of US$79.0M would extend
over 5.0 years and be made as follows;
(a) subloans for irrigation, drainage and erosion control,
extension, cooperative depots, veterinary centers, rural roads
and equipment, land consolidation, geodetic bureau and radio
station equipment and consultancy services, civil works,
vehicles, equipment (US$36.OM), and overseas training and
equipment for FC ($1.2M) : (100% of foreign expenditure; 48% of
local expenditures);
(b)  individual sector subloans for livestock, horticulture, small
scale irrigation farm mechanization (US$23.0M): (100% of foreign
expenditure; 48% of local expenditures);
(c)  90% of amounts disbursed by KBP for sub-loans for incremental
fertilizer purchases;
(d)  consultancy services, vehicles and equipment for KBP (100% of
expenditures) and for the FC (100% of foreign and 48% of local)
totalling together US$1.3M);
(e) interest during construction ($9.4M) 100% of IBRD interest and
other charges on the infrastructure components.
All sub-loans would be committed by the borrower by June 30, 1986 except for
commitments for individual sector components which would be committed by
December 31, 1987 and for short-term fertilizer loans. Disbursements woulcl be
supported by full documentation in the case of foreign expenditures. For
local expenditures, the Bank would disburse against Statements of Expenditure
(SOE), since they would involve on-lending largely for comparatively small
borrowers, and would finance small and numerous expenditures. KBP has been
using SOE procedures under previous Bank-financed projects. The documentation
supporting SOEs would be subject to SDK audit (para. 5.35) and would be
retained by KBP for inspection by supervision missions during project
implementation. Disbursements totalling about US$68 M (40%) for sub-projects
costing more than US$l M equivalent each would be subject to presentation lo
IBRD of a satisfactory appraisal report. Annex 2 gives an estimated
disbursement schedule summarized as follows:
Bank Fiscal Year       84      85     86       87     88
---- US$M---------------
Annual                 7.2   14.9   24.9    19.7   12.3
Cumulative             7.2   22.1   47.0    66.7   79.0
In preparing the disbursement schedule, account has been taken of the proposed
project phasing and past Yugoslav agricultural project disbursement profiles
(Annex .2).
4.31     Revolving Fund:  A revolving fund would be utilized through the
establishment of a special account as a condition of loan effectiveness. The
initial deposit would be $2.5 million which would be drawn from the Bank
loan. The fund would cover estimated Bank disbursements for 75 days plus
about 20% of that amount as a cushion. Establishment of such a fund



- 23 -
would expedite the processing of withdrawal requsts and would also avoid tying
up foreign exchange resources for eligible disbursements while being processed
by the Bank. The fund would be established as a separate account with KBP and
disbursements from all categories of the loan amount would be eligible for
inclusion.
H. Procurement
Works
4.32     The construction of buildings, irrigation and drainage civil works,
and roads, totalling US$52.7M including contingencies, would be procured by
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which, at appraisal, were found
satisfactory to the Bank. Construction to be financed consists, except for
the irrigation civil works, of comparatively minor works and buildings of
estimated contract size under $1.0 M throughout the project area. Foreign
contractors are permitted to bid, although in the past foreign firms have
shown little interest in such civil works contracts.
Goods and Equipment
4.33     Equipment for the irrigation sub-project (pipes and sprinklers)
estimated including contingencies, to cost US$17.2M, geodetic bureau
equipment, and road maintenance equipment ($3.3M), would be procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IBRD guidelines.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15%, or the import duty, whichever is the lower.  Due to its specialized
nature and the need for compatibility with existing equipment, radio station
equipment, estimated to cost $0.8M including contingencies, would be purchased
through limited international procurement procedures under which quotations
would be obtained from three qualified suppliers. Total ICB procurement would
be about $20.5 million. Tractors and related farm machinery estimated to cost
about $8 M including contingencies, would be procured over five years using
LCB procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, in which foreign bidders would have
the opportunity to participate. The market for tractors and farm machinery in
Yugoslavia is competitive with both Yugoslav (Zetor, Famos, and others) and
principal foreign (John Deere, Fiat, and others) manufacturers maintaining
market positions. Service facilities for tractors, combines and equipment are
established. These diversified pieces of locally manufactured tractors and
equipment would be required gradually over five years and in small
quantities. Adequate competition is available among local suppliers
(including foreign suppliers' local agencies) to ensure competitive prices.
Fertilizer and other goods and services procured for I.S. on-farm development
would be purchased in accordance with local procurement practices. Contract
Review:  Procurement documentation for equipment estimated to cost US$21.3
million would be subject to the Bank's prior review. The contracts for civil
works construction and the balance of goods to be procured would be subject to
selective post review by the Bank during supervision.
4.34     Consultant Services.  Under the project, some 18 man/months of
internationally recruited consultancy services would be required (development
banking advisor, cooperative management advisor, senior extension training
officer, etc.). These staff are expected to cost $10,000 per man month.
Their total cost, including salaries, travel, overhead, and related fees would
amount to about US$180,000 equivalent.



- 24 -
I. Environmental Effect
4.35     The project would have no negative environmental effect in the
project area. The agricultural and irrigation sub-projects, through soil
erosion and water run-off control, would have a positive effect.
J. Role of Women
4.36     Yugoslavia has made considerable progress with respect to ensuring
equal opportunities for women. In Kosovo, women play an important part in the
agricultural system of Kosovo. They are responsible for much of the planting
and harvesting, as well as being heavily involved in the dairy cow and sheep
milk operations, especially on the cheese making side. Under the Project, the
extension staff would be expanded with women professionals.
V. Project Organization and Management
A. Institutional Arrangements
5.01     KBP would be the borrower under the Project, and would have primary
responsibility for implementing the farm credit program and administering
sub-loans to sub-borrowers responsible for the other project components. It
will share responsibility for supervision and monitoring of sub-project
implementation with the Project Unit (PU), established in the FC.
5.02     The PU located in the FC will have day-to-day responsibility for
coordination of project implementation. It will assist sub-borrowers in
preparing loan applications, procurement documents and annual implementation
schedules and programs. It would act as professional secretariat to the
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC). The PU would be staffed with
well-qualified professionals in the fields of agricultural economics,
statistics, translation, agricultural extension, agricultural credit, field
crops, perennial crops, livestock production and civil engineering. The FC
secretary, a person of extensive IS experience, was, with IBRD agreement,
selected as the Project Director.  An assurance was obtained that any new
appointment would be satisfactory to the Bank.
5.03     The major function of the PU would be to act as coordinator of all
Project related activities of PCCs at the regional and commune levels and all
implementing agencies regarding, inter alia, such matters as: (a) preparation
and implementation of annual programmes for each component; (b) preparing
terms of reference for feasibility studies and designs, and reviewing same;
(c) organizing training programmes in each commune and overseeing staff
selection for, and implementation of, same; (d) monitoring of extension
programmes and farm development plans at commune level; (e) review of
physical, financial and institutional performance of the Project in relation
to annual programmes and targets and providing quarterly reports on same; and
(f) alerting the PCC to questions concerning the Project requiring urgent
decision and action.
5.04     Implementation of specific components will be the responsibility of
about 50 sub-borrowers, including the communal governments (roads), BOALs
(irrigation), BCO's (agri-service centers), the Veterinary Service
Organization, Radio-TV Pristina and the Geodetic Bureau for land consolidation
in the communes of Glogovac and Vucitrn.



- 25 -
B. Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
5.05     The organizations involved in project implementation will be linked
through a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) at the Provincial level and
Commune Committees at the Commune level. The creation of this (PCC)
highlights the regional focus of this Project. The PCC is the first of its
kind in Yugoslavia. It will be an important instrument for sectoral
integration as the program proceeds into the implementation phase. It also
has an important role to play in facilitating spatial integration:
fragmentation is also a problem within Kosovo. This committee will provide an
opportunity for airing inter-communal issues that relate to rural development.
5.06     Specifically, the PCC would provide regional coordination and policy
guidance, approve annual implementation plans, and resolve major issues. PCC
would be the link between Government and the Project. It would be chaired by
the President of the Provincial Committee for Agriculture and comprised of
representatives of the Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Kosovo,
the Geodetic Bureau, SIZ for Water Economy, SIZ for Roads, the Economic
Chamber, FC, KBP, Agrokosovo, Faculty of Agriculture, Veterinakos, and R-TV
Pristina. Also, Commune Executive Council Presidents are invited to attend
PCC meetings when matters concerning their particular Commune would be
discussed. PCC would report directly to the Kosovo Executive Council; its
decisions would be passed to the Project Director in FC, and through him, to
similarly constituted commune Project Coordinating Committees and, as
necessary, to the participating implementing agencies. The relationship
between the coordinating committees at regional and commune levels, the member
organizations, FC and KBP are shown in Annex 5, Chart I. Assurances that the
PCC and the Commune Committees would be maintained during the project
implementation period were obtained from Kosovo during negotiations.
5.07     To spell out their mutual obligations in detail, the sub-borrowers
and implementing organizations involved in the Project would sign a
self-management agreement (SMA). Receipt of a final, signed SMA satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.08     The principal agencies involved in project implementation are
described below. Project implementation commenced in late 1982 and would
continue over 5 years. Provision would be made for a mid-term review by April
30, 1985 of project progress by the Bank, Borrower and FC including a
re-estimate of project costs. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations.



- 26 -
C. Federation of Cooperatives!/
5.09     The 1981-85 Kosovo Social Plan stresses IS development through
intensified association with the social sector and expansion of cooperative
organizations. The agency entrusted with this task is the Federation of
Cooperatives (FC), whose functions also include advising the Provincial
Committee for Agriculture on IS policy issues, playing an important role in IS
credit administration and administering the Provincial Fund for Development of
Production in the IS (about Din. 60 M annually). FC also assists in the
administration of subsidies and premiums at the provincial and commune
levels. FC is financed by its constituent members and from the Government:
budget.
5.10     Consequently, FC was seen as the institution which, after appropriate
strengthening, would be the most suitable agency for the day-to-day
coordination of project implementation. Accordingly, the Project Unit was
located in FC.    One of the chief objectives of the Kosovo Regional
Development Project is to strengthen the organizational, staffing and
managerial capabilities of FC to make it capable of carrying out the task of
promoting and coordinating agricultural development in the IS.
D. Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
5.11     As the borrower, KBP would sign the Loan Agreement with the World
Bank, under the guarantee of the Federal Government. It would implement the
farm credit program through its three BB's in the project area. On-lending
procedures, terms and conditions are described below.
Loan Processing
5.12     Investors first submit applications to the BB which, after an initial
appraisal and ensuring that all documents are complete, forward them to KBP.
The KBP appraisal process includes the technical, financial, and, in some
cases, economic viability of the sub-project, and in many cases includes a
field inspection. Appraised applications are submitted to the Credit Board,
or, for loans exceeding Din. 50M, the Executive Board, for approval. If
positive (few loans are refused), the investor completes a contract with both
/1   The Federation of Cooperatives has undergone significant changes since it
was appointed as the project implementing entity. The Federation was
originally established as a coordinating body for its constituent
members, Basic Cooperative Organizations. Basic Cooperative
Organizations are "sub-cooperatives" within larger quasi-social sector
agricultural cooperatives called Zadrugas (See glossary in Annex la).
Until 1977, there were 24 Commune-sized Zadrugas in Kosovo. Many
encompassed up to 75 villages. Administration of the outlying regions
was nearly impossible under such circumstances. The legislation that
allowed for the formation of Basic Cooperative Organizations in 1977
provided the necessary administrative decentralization of the Zadrugas.
Large Zadrugas are now comprised of several Basic Cooperative
Organizations.



- 27 -
the BB and KBP. The legal documentation includes insurance cover, submission
of promissory notes to cover the debt service installments, and for individual
farmers, 2 personal loan guarantees. For 1SII loans, farmers first apply to
an OA, which assists with investment plan preparation, and appraises the
applicant's credit worthiness. IS applications are grouped together (minimum
20) before being forwarded to the BB. For IS loans, OA's are the borrowers
and on-lend to farmers, who make debt service payments to the OA's. Loan
processing usually takes around 6 months, although in exceptional cases,
applications can be completed within about 30 days, but may take up to one
year. KBP would, under the project, analyse the procedures for IS loans (from
farmer through BB, KBP and Credit Board to farmer) and simplify and shorten
the appraisal process.
Credit Service Improvement
5.13     KBP is potentially the most important development institution in
Kosovo, but it lacks a strong development orientation, particularly in
agriculture. KBP has not as yet developed a strategy that promotes
agricultural development in Kosovo. It needs to evolve more development
oriented policies and related operating and management procedures. KBP would,
be assisted in this task by employing a suitably qualified development banking
advisor. The advisor's role would be to advise KBP management on procedures
necessary to: (a) strengthen management; (b) improve loan application
processing and disbursement procedures; and (c) increase the development
orientation of the staff and management.
5.14     Agricultural Credit Officers  To speed-up the IS loan application
process, increase KBP and BB awareness of IS issues, and promote a more
development oriented approach towards the IS, KBP would establish a cadre of
trained Agricultural Credit Officers (AGO) to be employed by the Basic Banks
in order to improve farmer access to credit, shorten sub-project preparation
and appraisal and promote supervision of IS sub-loans. An ACO would be
stationed in each participating commune (12) and be responsible for individual
farm sector loan applications, field appraisal and supervision. Subsequently,
the system would be extended to include all 22 Kosovo Communes. The initial
training in agricultural credit, sub-project identification, appraisal, and
supervision, agricultural banking, rural communications and farm management
would be done by an international agricultural credit consultant to be
recruited for at least 3 months who would prepare and implement a three month
training program.. ACO's would work closely with the cooperative extension
service. AGO's would be responsible for the identification, preparation,
field appraisal, and supervision of all IS sub-loans. They would prepare for
the BB and KBP an initial report on the technical and financial viability of
the sub-loan and the applicant's credit worthiness which would be forwarded
through the Organization of Agriculturalists. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that KBP would, by October 1, 1983 (a) employ the international
agricultural credit consultant under terms of reference acceptable to IBRD;
and (b) by September 1, 1983 recruit 12 suitably qualified agricultural credit
officers and equip them with vehicles and adequate equipment.
/1 IS agricultural loans involve IBRD and FNP funds only; both resources are
first disbursed by KBP.



- 28 -
5.15     Access to Credit  To increase access to institutional credit for IS
agriculturalists, KBP would, in cooperation with FC, review by October 31,
1983 all current constraints on access to creait with a view to increasing the
number of potential applicants. KBP would also, under the project, introduce
the concept of "package development credits". This would involve first
examining all factors affecting an individual farm production system, and then
preparing a total farm development plan. The loan would be a "package
development credit" including all the parts required to modernize farm
operations and increase production including buildings, livestock, machinery,
improved seeds and adequate fertilizers. The improved seeds for the first
year, and two-year's fertilizer requirements, and the initial seeding for
improved meadows, would be capitalized as part of a long-term development
credit. KBP would also, in consultation with FC, reduce the number of farmer
applications initially to ten, to first be grouped before an OA can apply for
investment credit with further reductions as ACOs gain experience.
Furthermore, IS farmers who obtain credit would be required to sell through
the OA only the commodity concerned with the credit, or alternatively, the
amount of produce sufficient to cover the debt service requirements.
Assurances that these measures would be reviewed by October 31, 1983 were
obtained during negotiations.
5.16     Staff Training  While a majority of KBP staff, including those in
BBs, have received at least higher school education, and many have university
qualifications, no formal and regular system for in-service training exists.
This is a major deticiency. KBP would, therefore, employ, by October 31,
1983, a qualified full-time training officer. The training officer would
prepare a comprehensive staff training program for submission to IBRD for
review by December 31, 1983. The training officer would then be responsible
for implementing the agreed training program, which would be revised annually,
and cover both KBP and BB staff. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
Loan Disbursement
5.17     Disbursements are handled by BB's except for foreign exchange funds
which are first handled by KBP. BB's first disburse Dinars on the basis of
the invoices submitted by the investor. A reimbursement request is then sent
to KBP. On receipt of these forms, KBP reimburses the full amount disbursed
by BBs which, in the case of IBRD financed loans, also includes the funds
disbursed on behalf of IBRD. The BB is expected to send relevant
documentation to the IBRD unit of KBP for processing reimbursements from
IBRD. Disbursement procedures between KBP, BB and investors are generally
satisfactory with regard to disbursement of Dinar funds. With regard to IBRD
loans, however, there is considerable delay in KBP requesting reimbursements
from IBRD, notwithstanding that KBP and BB have already disbursed the funds.
This is mainly due to BBs, having received full reimbursement of their
disbursements from KBP, and having no incentive to send documentation to the
KBP-IBRD unit for processing applications. The problem is, generally, not one
of loan commitments, but of inadequate internal procedures and management
control within KBP. An assurance was obtained that by September 30, 1983, KBP
would review with the Basic Banks the process of disbursement of funds by the
Basic Banks, the borrower and the Bank for expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, and recommend and implement adequate measures to reduce
disbursement delays at all three stages.



- 29 -
On-lending Procedures
5.18     In approving sub-loans to OA's involving IBRD funds, KBP would ensure
that: (a) sub-projects are technically feasible, have a minimum 12% financial
rate of return, and would generate sufficient cash flow to cover the debt
service; (b) continuing technical assistance and market outlets are ensured;
(c) OA individual farmer cooperation agreements are satisfactory; (d) adequate
organizational and staff arrangements are made for implementing sub-projects;
(e) adequate seasonal credit is available for sub-borrowers; and (f)
appropriate attention is given to the economic impact of sub-projects,
including employment, income, and import-export effects. In addition KBP
would ensure, for irrigation and drainage sub-projects, that: (i) a cost
recovery analysis would be undertaken by the relevant managing organization to
set user charges that would be sufficient to recover operation and maintenance
costs, and a reasonable proportion of debt service based on an 'ability to
pay' criteria; and (ii) arrangements for the use of the irrigated and drained
land and on-farm development, would include adequate measures, including
provision of technical services and market outlets, to maximise production and
user benefits. All sub-project appraisal reports would be available for
inspection by IBRD at request, or during project supervision, to ensure that
agreed methodologies are followed. In particular, KBP will retain the
simplified economic methodologies used to appraise the rural road components
for examination and review by Bank supervision missions. In addition, prior
to making sub-loans for the subsequent year's rural road programs, KBP will
assemble and forward to the World Bank for approval the proposed rural road
work program. The results of the economic evaluations, together with the
detailed engineering cost estimates and related information, will be taken
into account at the time of this annual Bank review. All sub-loan approvals
would be reported to IBRD in the semi-annual progress report. Sub-loan
appraisals for the Decani Irrigation Sub-project and the Vitina Drainage
Project, and any other project where total cost exceeds $1 million would first
be submitted to IBRD for review and approval.
On-lending Terms and Conditions
5.19     Project sub-loans would be based on cash flow projections for each
investment. Repayment of IS sub-loans would not exceed 15 years, including a
grace period of up to 6 years. For investments in agri-service centers,
veterinary stations, roads, road maintenance equipment, and RTV, FC, IED, and
Geodetic Bureau equipment, repayments would not exceed 15 years including up
to 4 years grace. All sub-borrowers would contribute not less than 20% of
total investment costs in either cash, kind, or labor. For IS sub-borrowers,
the minimum contribution is normally 20% of total investment costs; as cash,
materials or individual labor. KBP would, for IS loans, first assess the
total sub-project cost including the value of the borrower's labor and
material. Should the value of the borrower's labor and materials equal 20% of
the total investment cost, including where applicable, buildings, machinerv,
equipment and improved livestock, then the sub-borrower would not have to
contribute cash. Only FNP and IBRD funds would be used by KBP for sub-project
investments. On-lending interest rates in Kosovo for FNP funds, fixed by
Yugoslav law, are currently 4.5%. For Bank funds to be on-lent to the social
sector, the prevailing IBRD variable interest rate would be charged. KBP
charges between 1.25 and 2.75% spread, giving a rate between 12.22 and 13.72%
on the basis of the current Bank rate of 10.97%. Because the individual



- 30 -
sector investors are among those with the lowest per capita incomes in
Yugoslavia, the foreign exchange and variable interest rate risk for
individual sector borrowers will be carried by the Government of Kosovo. The
on-lending rate for Bank funds for these sub-borrowers would be a minimum of
18%. An undertaking has also been reached with the Federal Government for
periodic reviews of interest rates on loans to the agricultural sector in
order to achieve positive real interest rates over the next three years.
These rates compare to projected estimates of inflation in Yugoslavia of 20%
in 1983, 15% in 1984 and 15% thereafter. The foreign exchange and variable
interest rate risk on loans to social sector would be borne by the
sub-borrowers.
Repayment
Sources of Funds  Contribution  Interest Rate  Period Years    Remarks
IBRD                   47%            18%              15        Estimated rate
including on-
lending margin
FNP                    30%            4.5%             15
Investors              20%            -               -          Average
contribution
Provincial             3%                             -          Budgetary
Government                                                       allocation
E. Commune Governments
5.20     Each of the 12 Communal governments participating in the Project
would be responsible for selecting and financing the rural roads to be built
under the project in their communes. They would also be responsible for
ensuring road maintenance and for ensuring that the location and construction
of rural roads and agri-service centers are integrated. Project Coordinating
Committees at the Commune level would be organized to carry out this planning
and coordination task.
F. Organizations of Agriculturalists
5.21     The OA in each Commune will be responsible for planning, building and
staffing the Agri-Service Centers to be constructed under the Project. They
will also be responsible for recruiting, training and supervising, under
guidance from the Federation of Cooperatives, the technical staff responsible
for implementing the extension component of the Project. The OA would aLso be
responsible for providing fertilizer for cash and on credit to IS farmers in
its area.
5.22     Incremental Fertilizer Finance.  To ensure the projected improvements
in individual on-farm productivity, the project would provide financing for
the purchase of fertilizer by the Organizations of Agriculturalists servicing
the Communes in Kosovo. KBP would make sub-loans to the OA's for annual
incremental fertilizer purchases at a rate no less than 18%. By March 30 of
each project year, the Federation of Cooperatives would submit to KBP and the



- 31 -
World Bank a statement of the previous calendar year's fertilizer tonnage
handled by its OA members. In applying for annual reimbursement from the
World Bank for the value of the incremental amount of fertilizer used in the
project area, KBP would submit statements of expenditure indicating the volume
and value of the incremental fertilizer financed in that year over the
previous year to the OA's. The World Bank would refinance 90% of the value of
this incremental credit from KBP to the OA's.
5.23     All OA's would be eligible to obtain seasonal fertilizer credit from
KBP through the BB's. Annual credit provided by OA's to IS farmers for
fertilizer purchases would be on-lent at not less than 18%, with a spread of
2%. In consultation with the research organizations and the Faculty of
Agriculture, SMS's and EA's would establish fertilizer norms for various crops
according to local climate and soil conditions. The farmer would submit an
application to the OA on a standard form, stating intended type and area of
crops. The individual would undertake to sell through the OA sufficient
produce, agreed upon at the time the credit is granted, to ensure repayment of
his debt together with interest. All farmers would have access to fertilizer
purchases either by cash or credit, irrespective of whether or not they are
formally associated in cooperatives. Loans would be repayable within 12
months. Should an individual sector farmer not repay his loan, he would not
be eligible for credit under this project in future years. Assurances that
the fertilizer credit would be provided in this manner were obtained from the
Federation and KBP during negotiations.
G. Other Participating Organizations and Supporting Servicesl/
Irrigation and Drainage
5.24     Implementation of the irrigation and drainage component would be the
responsibility of Bistrica (Decane) and PIRO-Agro-Morava (Vitina)
respectively. Three main, closely linked, central organizations have
different responsibilities over water development and management (Annex 5,
Chart 2). The Kosovo Management for Water Economy, a Government agency, is
mostly concerned with policy, water laws, rights and allocation, permits,
approval of projects, and financing beyond the scope of self-management
organizations. The Provincial SIZ for Water Economy represents the interest
of water users of all sectors. Its function is to promote water development
projects, to propose water policy, and finance both studies and projects. It
is self-financed from taxes and is managed by a Board of 65 members
representing all sectors. The Complex Organization of Associated Labor
(SOUR), coordinates the activities of 8 Regional Organizations of Associated
Labor. To strengthen its ability to implement its role, SOUR would employ for
a minimum period of 3 years a suitably qualified and experienced hydrologist,
civil engineer, and project economist. The Bistrica Organization of
Associated Labor at Decane, would be responsible for implementation and
management, of the Decane irrigation sub-project. Bistrica includes 2 Basic
Organizations, one for civil engineering construction and the other for
hydroeconomy. The irrigation organization employs 21 persons including: 2
civil engineers (one irrigation engineer and one hydraulic engineer), 4
technical assistants for maintenance purposes, and 14 skilled technicians for
maintenance. During construction, the Water Economy BOAL would provide
overall supervision, while consultants would have technical responsibility.
/1 Further details on supporting organizations and services are given in
Annex 7.



- 32 -
Operation and maintenance would be done by the Water Economy BOAL suitably
strengthened to include a qualified experienced manager, 1 secretary-legal
advisor, 1 agronomist/planner, 3 technical assistants, 3 maintenance plumbers,
3 accountants/administrators, and 5 support staff. The Vitina drainage
sub-project borrower and manager would be PIRO Agro-Morava, a social sector
agricultural Kombinat of Vitina which employs 270 workers including 2
agronomists, 13 high school agronomists, 12 agricultural technicians, and one
economist, and farms 800 ha of agricultural land and 12 ha of greenhouse
flowers.
5.25     Construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation scheme will
be the responsibility of OUR Bistrica. Responsibility for construction of the
drainage system will be vested in PIRO-Agro-Morava.
Geodetic Bureau
5.26     The Kosovo Bureau for Geodetic and Photogrammetric work would
undertake the cadastral survey work included in the Project.
Veterinakos
5.27     Veterinakos is the institution responsible in Kosovo for providing
veterinary services to the IS. It would be responsible for designing, siting
and construction supervision of the veterinary stations and A.I. shelters to
be constructed under the Project. It would coordinate closely with the FC and
the OA's in each commune.
Rural Communications
5.28     A Media Strategy Committee (MSC) comprised of representatives from
IED, Faculty of Agriculture, PCC, local radio stations, target audience (IS
farmer), and the FC Rural Communications specialist, and chaired by the
Representative of RTV Pristina, would be established by September 30, 1983.
An assurance to this effect was obtained from Kosovo during negotiations.  MSC
would advise radio stations on farm program content, and develop appropriate
strategies for improving the impact of mass media IS farmer education.
Rural Road Work Organization
5.29     Road working organizations (PUT WO) can and do bid for works outside
the geographic boundaries of their base of operations whether it be a commune,
province or republic. These organizations, together with other civil works
contract enterprises throughout the country, provide a pool of construction
enterprises which is adequate to ensure a competitive environment for road
investment contracts. Detailed engineering, cost estimates, bidding documents
and contracts are prepared for the SIZ's, provincial and commune, by
consultants. These are available in number and expertise adequate to carry
out the necessary engineering and other professional consultancy required for
this project. In Kosovo, the SIZ for Roads will have a representative on the
Project Coordination Committee and has agreed to provide technical advice and
supervision to the communes included in this project.



- 33 -
Faculty of Agriculture (FA)
5.30     The Faculty of Agriculture (FA) was established in 1974.  The Faculty
is an autonomous body established by self-management agreement and linked to
other organizations both inside and outside the University of Pristina by
similar agreements. It is financed partly from public funds (about 70%) and
partly by commercial type contracts with other Basic Organizations.
Constitutionallv, FA has three functions: (a) basic scientific research, (b)
adaptive research, (c) and higher agricultural education. FA contracts out
staff for planning and supervising agricultural development projects of
various kinds. The Faculty is currently producing about 110 agricultural
graduates annually. No courses are provided in agricultural extension or
agricultural credit. FA would, under the project, implement special training
programs for EAs, SMSs, cooperative managers, and for farmers. FA would also
assist with agricultural credit officer training. Assurances that FA would
carry out these activities will be included in the SMA.
The Institute of Economic Development (IED)
5.31     lED was established in 1976 and in 1982, became a working
organization (RO) within Agrokosovo in order to fill the need for an
organization to prepare regional agricultural development programs. IED is
self-financed by payments for services provided.
5.32     Under the Project, FC through IED, would annually evaluate the
economic, financial and social impact of project investments and programs.
IED would report to KBP and PCC using key indicators agreed between KBP, FC
and IBRD and outlined in Annex 6. IED would also, under contract to FC and in
conjunction with the Provincial Statistics Institute and the Kosovo Price SIZ,
monitor and evaluate the effects of Government guaranteed producer prices and
other Government subsidies and premiums as they relate to the individual
agricultural sector. Assurances that FC would cause these activities to be
carried out were obtained at negotiations.
H. Training and Supervision
5.33     The Faculty of Agriculture would, under the project, be the major
training resource. The Faculty would develop under-graduate courses in
agricultural extension, conduct in-service refresher courses for EAs and SMAs,
assist in developing farmer field training, and liaise with FC and KBP in
developing training for cooperative management and agricultural credit staff.
Priority would be given to training agricultural extension personnel (EAs).
Since, however, no EA training is available in Kosovo, the project would
provide funds for the appointment of an internationally recruited agricultural
extension advisor (AEA) for about 10 man-months. The AEA would prepare
extension courses and training materials, help train agricultural extension
teachers, and train the initial group of project extension agents to be
employed. He would also liaise with the Faculty of Agriculture, the rural
communications specialist and RTV Pristina to prepare topics for radio and
television programs. The initial EA training would be for about three months.
5.34     No special training is available for cooperative managers.  The
Project would, therefore, through an international cooperative management
advisor (CMA), initiate cooperative manager training, including business



- 34 -
management and planning techniques, budgeting, human relations and interview
techniques. The course would cover about two months. Subject matter
specialists, especially those initially appointed, would need their skills
upgraded. They would complete special training of about 3 months offered by
FA. In-service training each year would be provided for SMS, EAs and
cooperative managers who would attend courses of about 2 weeks duration, to
update their skills and knowledge.
I. Accounts and Audit
5.35     KBP would maintain separate project accounts for sub-loan
disbursements. FC would also maintain separate project accounts. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations, that: (a) KBP and FC would have their
accounts audited to internationally accepted standards; and (b) would submit
the audited accounts to IBRD within 6 months of the close of each fiscal
year. Assurances were obtained that the auditors would give a separate
opinion as to the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, and
whether satisfactory procedures are in operation to ensure that SOE supported
withdrawals (para. 4.27) have been used for Project purposes. These
accounting, financial reporting and auditing procedures would provide adequate
and timely information to IBRD for project supervision. Past compliance with
similar accounting and auditing requirements under other IBRD loans has been
satisfactory.
J. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.36     KBP would monitor project implementation through field supervision of
sub-projects and through key indicators given in Annex 6. KBP would make
semi-annual progress reports, similar to those made in other bank-financed
Yugoslav and Kosovo projects. The progress report format would be adapted to
accommodate any special features of the proposed project. KBP would also
implement a program of internal management reporting which would indicate to
management the status of KBP's overall financial position, sub-loan approvals,
loan portfolio status, arrears, loan rescheduling, and loan repayment status.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that KBP would provide reports and
implement monitoring systems acceptable to the Bank.
5.37     KBP would continuously evaluate the impact of investments under the
project and would collect and analyze data on costs, benefits, and financial
viability of investments on the basis of suitable sampling.
5.38     Annual progress and evaluation reports would be submitted to IBRD by
FC. Furthermore, FC would prepare a project completion report not later than
6 months after the closing date. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that FC would produce annual evaluation reports, and prepare a project
completion report in accordance with the outline to be agreed upon between
IBRD and FC.
K. Cost Recovery
5.38     The irrigation and drainage sub-projects would be financed by 20%
equity contributions and 80% borrowed funds. Irrigation and drainage debt
service and replacement costs would be recovered from water users through
charges levied by the implementing agencies. Operation and maintenance costs
associated with the irrigation and drainage systems would be recovered through



- 35 -
an appropriate annual per hectare charge collected by the local fiscal agency
of the communes Decane and Vitina. These charges would be gradually increased
to full development in order to alleviate the financial burden of farmers
during the early years of operations. Deficits incurred would be covered by
the Province of Kosovo. The charges would, as with other Bank-financed
irrigation and drainage project in Yugoslavia, be based on 'an ability to pay"
and are expected to cover operation and maintenance costs, and debt service
amortization.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
6.01     By intensifying cropping patterns, increasing use of modern
technology, reducing harvest losses, and expanding livestock operations,
project farm production would, over ten years, nearly double. Improved supply
of inputs, stronger support services and increased area under improved soil
and water supply conditions would enable farmers to realize major increases in
production of industrial crops (oilseeds and sugarbeet), fruits, meat, milk,
and vegetables. Rainfed farms, which cover most of the Project area, are
expected to shift about 10% of cultivation from cereals and low yield protato
production to higher value crops such as oilseeds and to establish improved
meadows to raise fodder production. Farmers receiving new or additional water
supply would shift up to 25% of current cultivation into irrigated crops such
as vegetables, potatoes and sugarbeet. The Project also would enable farmers
to shift 5% to 10% of their land from cereals into high value fruit
production. The projected annual incremental production, and its contribution
at full development in relation to current Kosovo production is summarized in
Annex 3, Table 3.
6.02     The project impact on crop production--especially rain-fed--in the
project area would be greater than its impact on livestock production,
although an increase in fodder production for livestock feed comprises a large
part of the production increment. Also, IS livestock development in the
project area is being supported through three nationwide Bank financed credit
projects and a portion of the Bank financed Kosovo Agricultural Development
Project (para. 1.18).
B. Market Prospects and Channels
6.03     Incremental output from Project farms is expected to be marketed
within Kosovo to help meet rising per capita consumption requirements and to
reduce meat, cereal, fruit and other food imports into the Province from other
parts of Yugoslavia and abroad. Yugoslavia has established export markets and
good future prospects for additional exports of many commodities produced on
Project farms (Annex 3, Table 2). An estimated 27% population increase over
the next decade and rising personal incomes, however, are expected to generate
substantial incremental demand within Kosovo which, together with current
production deficits, would be in excess of the anticipated production
increases under the Project. Although none of the output is expected to be



- 36 -
exported, much of it would contribute indirectly to Yugoslavia's foreign
exchange earnings or savings (para 7.01) by reducing import requirements and
enabling additional exports from other Republics. The production increment
and projected increase in local requirements are compared in Annex 3, Table
3. The market prospects for specific products and assumptions in the analysis
are discussed below.
6.04     Per Capita Consumption.  Estimates based on household surveys
conducted in 1973 and in 1978 show that current Kosovo consumption levels are
low relative to other parts of Yugoslavia and Europe:
Average Per Capita Consumption
Meat 1/       Sugar         Fruit
(kg)          (kg)          (kg)
SAPK
1973                         13.8           14.3          22.5
1980 (est)                   20.6           16.2          27.0
1985                         23.6           17.9          30.9
1990                         27.0           19.8          35.9
SFRY (1978)                  50.0           33.0          51.0
Europe (1978)                75.2           32.0          119.0
1/ Deadweight
The projected levels on which the estimates of future Kosovo requirements are
based, are thus modest in relation to current average levels in Yugoslavia and
Europe.
6.05    Cereals.- Yugoslavia consumes domestically its entire cereal
production or equivalent, and since 1979, has been a net cereal importer
(Annex 3, Table 2). Wheat is used mainly for human consumption and maize for
livestock feed. Recently, however, especially in Kosovo, a substantial
portion of the wheat and rye harvests (40,000 tons in 1980) has been used to
supplement animal feed needs. Kosovo currently imports nearly 200,000 tons of
cereals annually. Although per capita consumption is expected to decrease
(the 1973 household survey shows Kosovo per capita consumption at about 132%
of the national average), due to population increase Kosovo is likely to
remain a net cereal importer over the next decade. Although 1985 projected
animal feed production (270,000 tons) is substantial, recently established
large poultry units and other planned livestock development will increase
demand faster than production, even when incremental areas of irrigated maize
are considered.
6.06    Vegetables.  Currently, Kosovo imports vegetables from Macedonia in
order to partially satisfy the requirements for the vegetable processing plant
in Prizren, and to supply local markets with out-of-season vegetables (about
10,000 tons annually). During the next decade, Kosovo production (116,000
tons in 1980) is expected to increase sharply (6.6% annually) following
expansion of irrigated areas. However, per capita consumption in Kosovo (only



- 37 -
81% of national average in 1973) is projected to increase at nearly the same
rate, assuming consumption expenditure growth at 3% annually and expenditure
elasticity of demand of 0.69. Taking into account a current annual deficit of
about 24,000 tons and future needs for the existing processing plant (10,800
tons annually), 1990 requirements in Kosovo will still exceed local production.
6.07    Fruits.  Kosovo is currently a net fruit importer.  Recent and planned
plantings, including those under the proposed Project, are expected to fulfill
Kosovo's requirements after 1990, based on consumption expenditure growth at
3% annually, expenditure elasticity of demand of 0.9%, and estimated future
requirements for the existing processing plant (11,200 tons annually) in Pec.
Yugoslavia has good export market channels for fruit, and although incremental
project production would be consumed domestically, it would indirectly
contribute to Yugoslavia's foreign exchange earnings by reducing consumption
of exportable fruit trucked in from Macedonia and adjacent regions.
6.08    Potatoes.  Current potato supply and demand are balanced.  Due to
population growth, requirements in 1990 are expected to exceed Kosovo
production by 5- to 10,000 tons annually, based on expenditure growth at 3%
annually and elasticity of demand of 0.60. Incremental Project production,
therefore, would be consumed locally, but indirectly would contribute to
Yugoslavia's export earnings by enabling other parts of Yugoslavia to increase
their potato exports.
6.09    Oilseeds.  Incremental oilseed production (sunflower, rapeseed and
flax) in the Project area would help to offset Yugoslav imports. Future
Kosovo demand is expected to continue exceeding local production. All of the
incremental output wcduld, therefore, contribute directly towards foreign
exchange savings.
6.10    Sugar.  Project area incremental production would be consumed entirely
within Kosovo. The existing sugar processing plant at Pec is currently
operating at less than 50% capacity, due to raw material shortages. Project
sugarbeet output would be produced on contract with this plant by nearby farms
which would receive improved water supplies from the rehabilitated Decane
irrigation system. Thus, the market and marketing channels for the
incremental output already exist. Despite relatively low per capita
consumption levels, Yugoslavia recently began exporting sugar, mostly to the
USSR and mid-eastern countries, to improve a worsening balance of trade
position. In 1980, when the ISO quotas were temporarily lifted, Yugoslavia
exported about 300,000 tons. However, in 1981, Yugoslavia again imported
sugar. Thus, including sugar refined from incremental Project production at
full development (360 tons sugar equivalent), future Yugoslav exports would
not exceed the ISO quota for Yugoslavia of 70,000 tons sugar.
6.11    Meat.  Per capita consumption is low (21% of the national average),
and Kosovo imports about 12,000 tons annually, much of which could otherwise
be exported (para 6.12). Incremental project output, therefore, would be
marketed within Kosovo to help offset the local production deficit, but would
contribute indirectly to foreign exchange earnings. Projected Kosovo meat
consumption requirements, based on per capita consumption estimates by the
Kosovo Institute of Agriculture and Economics, expenditure elasticity of
demand derived from the 1973 survey data, and estimated requirements for the
existing processing plant (anticipated capacity of 15,800 tons in 1990),
indicate that major deficits are expected in beef and mutton production as
shown below:



- 38 -
Estimated        Estimated          Deficit
Production       Total Demand       (Surplus)
(1990)           (1990)            (1990)
-------------------tons--------------------
Beef                     21,000           31,500            10,500
Mutton                    9,200            9,900                700
Pork                      8,500           14,400             5,900
Poultry                  14,000           12,400            (1,600)
6.12    Milk.  Kosovo per capita consumption (77% of the national average)
exceeds local production, and, in spite of ambitious milk production
development programs, Kosovo is expected to continue as a net importer during
the next decade. Production is expected to increase at about 5.5% annually
between 1981 and 1985, and 4.3% between 1986 and 1990. Based on consumption
expenditure growth at 3% annually, expenditure elasticity of demand of 0.7%,
and population growth at a rate of 2.45% annually, total milk demand is
expected to increase by about 4.6% annually during the next decade and to
exceed Kosovo production.
6.13    Export Markets.  Incremental production of most items, particularly
meat and fruits, could augment exports, if domestic requirements are met,
through existing well established markets. Yugoslavia has major export
markets for meat in the Middle East, Europe and North Africa. Yugoslavia's
meat quality in these markets is well-established and competitive and demand
in these countries for this quality of meat is expected to remain strong.
Currently, principal markets for Yugoslavia's fresh fruits are EEC and East
Europe. Increasing demand in East Europe and USSR, and Yugoslavia's close
relationship with these countries, indicate that East Europe and the USSRt are
expected to become Yugoslavia's major fruit export market. In the long term,
it is expected that meat and fruit exports will continue. In the short term,
however, priority is expected to be given to meeting domestic demand.
6.14    Marketing Channels.  The main channels for marketing produce from
-small farmers exist in relation to the market centers established in the small
towns throughout the Project area. Most of the marketable surplus of fresh
vegetables, a substantial part of the meat, and the domestically consumed
portion of fresh fruit (50% to 60%), is marketed in locally maintained markets
not subject to price controls. The upgrading of rural roads is expected to
significantly improve market quality and increase the marketed volume through
the existing channels. Industrial crops (oilseeds, sugarbeet), cereals,
vegetables, fruit, meat and milk for processing and marketing to areas outside
of local centers are handled through facilities managed by social sector
organizations which are members of Agro-Commerce, the marketing organization
within Agro-kosovo. Agro-commerce is responsible for coordinating and
channelling the marketing of products from member organizations and is a
member of a larger regional distribution organization--the United Trade of
Kosovo. It comprises the 23 major provincial retailers, over 2,300 shops, 70%
of the total retail outlets, and 90% of the total floor space in Kosovo.
Agro-commerce is improving and expanding its marketing channels in other
regions in Yugoslavia. It would also be responsible for marketing the
project's exportable output. The social sector processing facilities, which
also are members of Agro-kosovo, purchase raw materials on contract or on



- 39 -
short term agreement at prices set by the Government (para 6.16). Farmer
cooperatives provide intermediate organizations which also purchase farm
products on contract or on short term agreement at controlled prices. The
marketing channels, therefore, are established and with the proposed
improvements to roads and communal cooperative depots and collection centers,
facilities would be adequate to handle the incremental production.
6.14    Processing facilities.  Existing processing capacity and new plant or
extensions for which finance has already been secured are;
Raw Material Processing Capacity
('000 tons)
Capacity
(000 tons/year)
Grain storage                                      143
Flour milling                                      140
Slaughter ruminants 1/                              15.4 liveweight
Slaughter poultry                                   11.5
Meat processing                                     82
Cold storage                                        18
Milk processing                                     36.5
Vegetable processing                                11.2
Fruit processing                                    11.4
Sugar processing                                   150
Oil seeds                                           18
Grape processing                                   104
Potato processing                                   21.5
Livestock feeds (grains)                            52.2
Maize mills                                         29.0
1/ Not including commune slaughterhouses.
In conjunction with increasing demand for fresh consumption, the above
processing capacity would satisfy projections of provincial production beyond
the year 1985. The area also has 20 livestock markets and 21 green markets
operated by the Communes.
C. Prices
6.16    Financial prices used for appraisal are based on farmgate prices for
primary products prevailing at June 1982 and are shown in Annex 3, Table 4.
Investment costs are based on Dinar prices at June 1982, converted to U.S.
dollars at the then exchange rate (US$1=Din. 46), and adjusted upwards to
reflect both estimated movements in prices--using international inflation
rates--to December 31, 1982 and the devaluation of October, 1982.  Prices for
main agricultural products are administered at the Federal, Provincial and
communal levels. Floor prices are established for producer prices; ceilings
are set for consumer prices. All are based on a cost plus formula. Farmgate
prices move above but not below Government administered floor prices. In
Kosovo, guaranteed producer prices are in effect for industrial crops, wheat,
and milk. Social sector processing organizations set floor prices for



- 40 -
butchered meat, potatoes and certain fruits and vegetables. Producers in the
IS who are not associated with a cooperative or who have not contracted their
output with a cooperative or social sector processing plant, may sell at
prices established by market forces in neighboring village "green" markets.
Over time farmgate prices have increased marginally faster than retail prices,
but short-term negative distortions do occur. Sensitivity analysis has been
applied to all financial rates of return to determine the effects of possible
changes in key indicators. Details of these are shown in Annex 3, Table 6.
Each investment would, prior to implementation, be subject to financial
analysis based on prevailing input-output prices.
D. Financial Analysis
Primary Production Investments.
6.16    Financial analysis of primary production investments had been made
through representative models for each major investment type to be financed.
Actual investments may differ from the models since: (a) they may be of
different sizes and local conditions vary; and (b) the investment mix would
vary according to market conditions and sub-borrower demand, which itself
would be influenced by prevailing financial and economic conditions. The
underlying assumptions for changes in cropping patterns, yields, and input
requirements are presented in Annex 3, Table 5, and are based on interviews
with farmers, operational experience under similar Bank-financed agricultural
projects in Kosovo, and from KBP records. The financial rates of return (FRR)
vary from 13.6% to 79% (Annex 3, Table 6). All incremental benefits have been
phased to adequately reflect the time lag between making investments and
receiving benefits. Details of investment models and the technical
assumptions made, are shown in Document B-1, preparation report FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program, Report No. 13/82 YUG 18, July 30, 1982. During
appraisal, most technical assumptions were found to be conservative, with
prices changed to reflect up-dated movements in prices and investment costs.
Irrigation and Drainage
6.17    Financial analysis of the Decane Irrigation subproject and the Vitina
Drainage and Flood Control subproject have been based on consultants'
feasibility studies prepared and reviewed by the appraisal mission. Key
assumptions relating to technical features and cropping patterns are given in
Working Paper C-6. The consultants' feasibility studies are also available in
the project file documents B-2 and B-3. The financial rates of return of the
irrigation subproject is estimated at 18.6% and for the Vitina subproject
16.6%.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
Production, Foreign Exchange, and Institutional Development
7.01    Project investments would accelerate Kosovo economic growth through
the development of the IS agricultural sector which includes over .83% of the
cultivated land, but which is the poorest and least developed. Project
benefits would derive from: improved productivity and incomes of individual
farmers through investments in livestock, intensive horticulture, and crop



- 41 -
production in which small farmers have a comparative advantage due to the
labor intensity of the operations; the consolidation of fragmented
farmholdings; and increased farmer awareness of new technology through the
improvement of farm radio programs and contact with extension services. The
Kosovo and Yugoslav economies would benefit directly from (a) increased
production of meat, milk, industrial crops, fruit and vegetables to meet
growing consumer demand (para. 6.01); (b) indirect foreign exchange earnings
and reduction of agricultural imports (para. 7.02); and (c) strengthening of
the development institutions in Kosovo.
7.02    The equivalent annual foreign exchange earnings and savings from
incremental Project production at full development, if equivalent production
was exported or substituted for imports, would amount to the following:
Average Export/      Foreign
Incremental   Import Price at       Exchange
Production        Port              Value
(000 tons)        (US$iKg)         (USt M.)
Meat                                    2.3             3.71               8.5
Milk and Cheese 1'                     16.41/           0.361/             5.8
Fruit                                  41.6             0.29              12.1
Oilseeds                               34.7             0.33              11.5
Cereals                                35.8             0.17              6.1
Vegetables                             12.3             0.14               1.7
Total                                                            45.7
l/ Milk and cheese quantity in million liters milk equivalent, price in
US$/liter milk equivalent.
The project's non-quantifiable benefits would include; (a) the improved
institutional development of KBP, FC, IED, and other participating
organizations through training and through experience gained in preparing,
implementing, and evaluating development projects; and (b) fostering of
increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors through the
individual sector credit program and the expanded agricultural extension
service.
7.03    Beneficiaries.  About 5,000 individual farm families (40,000 persons),
would benefit directly from sub-loans for livestock, horticulture, machinery,
and farm inputs, and from the irrigation, drainage, and erosion control
sub-projects. 12,600 farm families would benefit from technological changes
due to the impact of the improved and expanded agricultural extension
service. Moreover, 11,600 farmers would benefit from the impact of increased
use of fertilizer provided by the project through short-term credit. Although
not quantified, a substantial number of farm families would benefit from the
improved access provided by the upgraded rural roads (700 km) which would
improve access to markets and input supplies. About 75% of direct
beneficiaries are expected to belong to a target group with per capita incomes
below US$500. After full development, the average participating farmer's
income is expected to rise from US$1,500 per farm family annually to US$2,700
annually.



- 42 -
7.04 Employment The project's contribution to expanding employment
opportunities in the project area would be significant. Most of the
employment created (about 1,100 man/years) would be through more intensified
agricultural operations developed under the project, principally derived from
more intensive farming practices in dairying ana in fruit and vegetable
production. In addition, the project would create some 200 permanent jobs in
the incremental staffing of agri-service centers and milk collection stations,
as well as substantial temporary employment during the construction period of
the project's infrastructure component, especially rural roads.
B. Economic Evaluation
Analytic Assumptions
7.05    Over 60% of the increment in farm incomes at full development would
derive from sale of cash crops, meat and milk products which are
internationally tradeable and valuea in the analysis in border equivalent
prices, adjusted for transport and handling differentials between border and
farmgate (Annex 3, Table 7).  Farm chemical fertilizer inputs also are vaLued
on the basis of adjusted border price equivalents. Farm labor costs are
adjusted to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor in Kosovo (para
7.10).
7.06    Domestic transfer payments (taxes, subsidies, and debt services) and
price contingencies are excluded from the investment and operating costs. The
benefits quantified include the gross value of farm sales and farm consumption
of incremental production less investment costs, incremental operating costs,
and the net value of farm operations without the proposed investments.
Internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) estimations
are done for each of the typical farm models, the Decane irrigation and the
Vitina drainage systems, and the Project as a whole.
Technical Assumptions
7.07    The Project would have an anticipated life of 20 years, year one
corresponding to the first year of construction.  Project implementation would
require five years for construction and about five years after construction
and installation for production to reach full development. The anticipated
phasing of benefit streams and the farm yield and input levels are given in
the financial models for each type of investment (Project File B-5). In
addition, the following assumptions are made for the economic analyses: (a)
for the sheep and dairy livestock analyses, fodder production is not valued
and its production cost is treated as input for the meat, milk, and wool,
production; (b) for the Vitina drainage system, the investment cost excludes
the watershed erosion control costs which would give additional, indirect
benefits over a wider area (the erosion control costs, however, are taken into
account in the overall project analysis); (c) the Project investment costs
exclude the costs for the fertilizer credit component, since the costs of
fertilizer have been taken into account in the farm budgets in determining the
net value of farm production; (d) the land consolidation costs without



- 43 -
associated benefits are taken into account in the overall project base
analysis; (e) all other project related investments and costs, including
international technical assistance, training, roads, agri-service centers,
veterinary facilities, vehicles and equipment, and incremental operating
costs, have been included in the overall project cost streams (Annex 3, Table
9).
Prices
7.08    Constant 1982 farmgate prices used in the analysis for tradeable
commodities are derived using World Bank projections for 1995 or recent
average unit value of Yugoslav foreign trade (Annex 3, Tables 7 and 8). For
other goods, domestic producer prices, adjusted by the standard conversion
factor, are used. The export price for milk reflects depressed European
market prices largely for manufacturing milk during seasonal production
surpluses. The average value in Yugoslavia in real terms is higher because of
the high proportion of drinking quality milk and infrequent occurrence of
production surpluses. Kosovo, in particular, is a production deficit area
(para. 6.11). In the analysis, therefore, the local milk producer price
adjusted by the standard conversion factor is used. Economic prices used in
the analysis are listed in Annex 3, Table 4.
Exchange Rate Adjustment
7.09    A standard conversion factor (SCF) is used to adjust the relationship
between prices of traded and non-traded goods for distortion introduced by the
tariff regime. Yugoslavia's import tariff levels in the past have been
uniformly low, except with respect to equipment and machinery, where tariffs
are somewhat higher; and Yugoslavia has encouraged exports through moderate
rebates on raw material imports. The recent stabilization measures, however,
have tightened this regime somewhat and increased the rationing of imports.
The impact is estimated to have generated a current SCF value in the range
between 0.7 and 0.8. In the economic analyses, an SCF of 0.75 is applied to
non-traded components in the cost and benefit streams.
Shadow Wage for Unskilled Labor
7.10    The main source of surplus unskilled labor is in the less developed
rural areas where incomes, productivity, and employment levels are still well
below those in the urban areas and in the modern social sector economy.
Because of differences in the economic structures and the relatively low
degree of labor mobility between regions in Yugoslavia, employment and income
levels in Kosovo have remained behind those of other parts of the country.
The income of unskilled labor (wages and social contributions) in the Kosovo
social sector (Din. 500/day) does not reflect the opportunity cost of IS
unskilled labor. The opportunity cost or marginal productivity of rural labor
is approximated by the income per worker in the lower ten percent of
agriculture households. Although agricultural sector productivity and incomes
are increasing in the medium term, average income in the lower 10% of Kosovan
households is expected to be less than half of the social sector labor cost
over the next decade. A shadow wage rate of 40% of the average social sector
net personal income for Kosovo is estimated to represent the economic cost of
IS unskilled labor. This rate is expected to increase by 2-3 percent annually
in real terms over the project life. Accordingly, a labor conversion factor
of 0.40 in year one increasing to 0.55 in year ten is applied to the value of
family and hired farm labor in the economic analysis.



- 44 -
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
7.11    The economy of Yugoslavia would realize an overall economic rate of
return (ERR) from the proposed investments of about 23% (Annex 3, Table 10).
The net present value (NPV) of the Project would amount to Din. 3,176M,
discounted at 12% the estimated opportunity cost of investment capital in
Yugoslavia. The ERRs and NPVs for the representative farm models are given in
Annex 3, Table 10 and summarized below:
Economic               Economic
Net Present             Rate of
Value at 12%            Return on
On Base Case            Base Case
--(Din M)---
Hill Sheep Farms 1/                      72.2                  16
Dairy Farms 1/                          -25.1                  12
Orchards I/                              31.5                  14
Rainfed Farms                         3,747.7                  51
Small Scale Irrigated Farms 1/           21.4                  18
Decane Irrigation System                  2.6                  12
Vitina Drainage System                    3.7                  16
Project Whole 3/                      3,176.8                  23
1/ ERR and NPV analyses of on-farm costs and benefits only.
2/ ERR and NPV for rainfed farms component (involve on-farm operating costs
but no on-farm investment costs.) and includes investment and operating
costs of the agri-service centers, radio, rural roads, and farm
machinery/components.
3/ ERR and NPV for the whole project after taking into account the project
costs of common elements with NPV amounting to Dinars which are not
incorporated in the analyses of farm and system models.
A separate analysis was undertaken for the rural road component, using
methodologies developed by the transport C.P.S. department. Based on
representative roads, the economic return on this component falls between 14%
and 15%. The evaluation procedure to be done for the remaining roads by the
Borrower was discussed and agreed during negotiations. This is a simplified
version of the above procedure.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.12    The impact of variations in the incremental cost and benefit stream
estimates on project and major sub-project viability is indicated by the
switch over value estimates summarized in Annex 3, Table 10. These show the
percentage change in the element of cost or benefit estimate which would have
to occur to cause the ERR to be 12% (NPV at 12% to be zero). The results
demonstrate that the Project could retain economic viability even with
unexpected changes in cost or benefits. For example, investment costs would
have to be 90% above the appraisal estimates to lower the ERR to 12%, or the
net operating margin would have to be 23% below estimates to lower the ERR to



- 45 -
12%. A year delay in implementation and cost overrun of 10% would lower the
ERR to 16%. Tne viability of the investments are most sensitive to changes in
either the farm benefits (output prices and yields) or farm operating costs
(input prices) which determine farm operating margins. A long-term change in
the operating margin of more than 5% is unlikely. Changes of market prices
for outputs in the long term are normally followed by parallel movements in
prices for raw materials and other operating costs. Usually, only small
changes in the operating margins result. The Decane sub-project has a very
high unquantified social value, since without rehabilitation of the irrigation
system, agricultural and economic development in the densely populated Commune
would be severely constrained. The sensitivity analysis (Annex 3, Table 10)
indicates that all sub-projects to be financed would still be satisfactory
should changes within reasonable likelihood occur.
C. Risk and Uncertainty
7.13    In comparison with other projects in Kosovo and Yugoslavia, this
project carries a somewhat higher degree of risk, given its complexity. It is
the first project to deal primarily with IS investments and services. On the
other hand, the benefits expected are commensurately high since the project
touches the key constraints to agricultural development in a neglected region
of Yugoslavia. The thoroughness of preparation, and the dialogue established
with Government and implementing agencies during appraisal, will help to
minimize the risk. A strong commitment to ensure successful project
implementation exists, not only with the Kosovo Government, but with the other
central authorities including KBP, FC and CA, and the local communes which
would have direct reponsibility for implementation. The coordination
established during preparation and appraisal between the central authorities
and the communes, moreover, has improved the local commitment to the project.
7.14    During appraisal, specific recommendations were made to strengthen the
borrower, KBP, and improve credit delivery and operational procedures for
which KBP would be responsible. The large number of separate implementing
agencies involves a higher degree of risk as they would require close
coordination, first at the regional and political level by PCC, and secondly
at the commune level by the CCCs. Institutionally, FC would, under the
Project, be considerably strengthened to enable it to satisfactorily carry out
its role.
7.15    Restrained farmer response for some types of investments may occur due
to uncertainty about input availability and changes in input/output ratios.
The risk would be substantially reduced by strong Government support to ensure
adequate and timely supply of production inputs and supporting equipment and
spare parts. The provision, under the project, of credit for purchase of
chemical fertilizers also is expected to reduce this risk. The situation has
been discussed with the Yugoslav authorities who have provided assurances that
adequate resources for carrying out the project would be provided. The
strengthening of the agricultural extension and other services for IS farmers,
including the farm radio broadcasts, would be evidence of the necessary
government support needed to substantially reduce this risk and to increase
the rate of farmer adoption of new technology.  Government's high priority for
this project also would bear on adequate investment funds. Current financial
and economic problems throughout Kosovo and in Yugoslavia in general have
increased the risk that implementation would be slowed due to shortage of



- 46 -
local funds.  The taechanism unuer this project by which aninual financing plans
are to be prepared by the Kosovan authorities and to be reviewed by the World
Bank should help to reduce this risk.  The impact of price policy on farners
incomes and output decisions should be monitored by the Federation of
Cooperatives as a policy input to the price control agency (SIZ for Prices).
7.16    Achievement of the projected increases in agricultural and livestock
production would be subject to the normal climatic variations which oftena
cause harvest losses and affect overall yield levels. A major objective for
the irrigation and drainage facilities and the farm machinery to be provided
under the project is to help stabilize water supply and soil conditions, and
to improve the timeliness of cultivation and application of inputs which would
lessen the impact of the occurrence of unfavorable weather conditions.
7.17    Changes in market prices due to external market adjustments or
international and domestic inflationary pressures are expected to result, in
the long term, in parallel movements in prices of output commodities, raw
materials, and operating cost, and thus have minor impact on net operating
margins. Considering potential benefits to the economy and individuals in
Kosovo, the risks described are acceptable.
D.  Fiscal Impact
7.18    The fiscal impact on the Kosovo Government would be minimal, limited
initially to Din 252 million (US$4 million) during the development period.
The remainder of the project would be financed by loans and borrower
contributions. Kosovo Provincial Government does have contingent fiscal
liabilities as the risk bearer to KBP of the foreign exchange and variable
interest rate risks on KBP loans directed via the OA's to individual farmers.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
General Conditions
8.01    During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) KBP would, by November 30, each year, submit to IBRD a financing
plan for those investments to be financed in the following year
(para. 4.27);
(b)  Kosovo Government would cause the Media Strategy Committee as
described in para. 5.28 to be established by September 30, 1983.
(c) FC would carry out organizational reforms and employ the
specialists and consultants described in paras 4.12, 4.13 and
4.16;
(d) KBP would implement agreed recommendations on loan processing
procedures (para 4.18);
(e) FC would implement the short-term fertilizer program under the
conditions described in paras. 5.22 and 5.23;



- 47 -
(i)  KBP would review by September 30, 1983 its loan disbursement
procedures and implement necessary improvements to reduce delays
(para 5.17);
(g) KBP and FC would follow the accounting and auditing procedures
outlined in para. 5.35;
(h) KBP would implement by October 31, 1983 the measures described
in para. 5.15 designed to improve individual sector farmer
access to credit;
(i) KBP would employ the agricultural credit officers by September
1, 1983 and the international agricultural credit consultant by
October 1, 1983 in accordance with the outline given in para.
5.14;
(j) KBP would employ by October 31, 1983 a qualified full-time
training officer, who would prepare a comprehensive staff
training program for submission to IBRD by December 31, 1983 for
review (para. 5.16);
(k) the Kosovo Government would meet the cost, including salaries
and operating costs, of the thirteen additional experts to be
employed by FC as described in para. 4.16 and the cost of having
IED implement tnis price monitoring system (para. 5.38);
(1)  a KBP supervision program would be submitted by August 31, 1983
(para 4.19);
(m)  KBP would follow the reporting and monitoring procedures
outlined in para. 5.36; and would implement monitoring and
evaluation systems satisfactory to IBRD (para. 5.37); and FC
would follow the reporting and evaluation requirements outlined
in para 5.38;
(n) FC would monitor and evaluate the effects of Government
administered guarantee and protective producer prices, and other
Government subsidies and premiums as they relate to the
individual agricultural sector (para 5.32);
(o) By April 30, 1985, two years after the expected date of loan
signing, KBP and FC in cooperation with IBRD would formally
review project implementation and projected future costs and
policies (5.08).
(p) Kosovo would cause the Geoditic Bureau to submit the land
consolidation feasibility studies for the Communes of Glogovac
and Vucitrn to IBRD, for review and comment, by October 31, 1983
(para. 4.23).
(q) Kosovo would maintain the Project Coordination Committee and
Commune Coordination Committees (para 5.06) and FC would
maintain the Project Unit with a director acceptable to the Bank
(para 5.02);



- 48 -
Conditions of Effectiveness
8.02     (a)  appointment of a development banking advisor whose
qualifications, experience and Terms of Reference are accept-able
to the Bank (para 4.17);
(b) receipt of a signed self-management agreement (SMA) satisfactory
to the Bank (para 5.07); and
(c) establishment of the Special Account (para 4.31)
8.03     Subject to the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$79.0 million equivalent for a term of 15 years
including a 3-year grace period.



- 49 -
Annex la
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
AGROKOMBINAT: (AIK)
The agrokombinat is a large social sector agri-business which encompasses all
aspects of the food system: input manufacture, primary production, processing,
marketing, distribution and retailing.
AGROKOSOVO:
An umbrella AIK for all 18 agrokombinats in Kosovo. In this case, Agrokosova
is a COAL comprised of 18 WOs (the 18 smaller agrokombinats), 101 BOALs, 75
BASIC COOPERATIVE ORGANIZATIONS, an Agro Commerce WO, and the research WO, IED.
ASSOCIATED AGRICULTURALIST:
Any INDIVIDUAL SECTOR farmer that has agreed (through a Self-management
agreement) to cooperate in some manner with the social sector. This includes
membership in ZADRUGAs, long-term production contracts for sale of crops and
livestock to the social sector, and similar short-term agreements that are
arranged annually.
*ASSOCIATION OF LABOR:
A Yugoslav term used in two overlapping meanings: as a broad, generic term
synonymous with SELF-MANAGEMENT socialism; in a narrow sense to characterize
the relations of workers within a BOAL.
BASIC COOPERATIVE ORGANZIATION (BCO)
The basic production unit within large Commune-sized ZADRUGAs. A
"sub-cooperative", the BCO is organized on the same principle as the parent
organization: BCOs' delegates represent the organization in Assemblies of the
ZADRUGAS and also in the FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES.
BASIC ORGANIZATION OF ASSOCIATED LABOR (BOAL)
The BOAL is the basic unit in which the ASSOCIATION OF LABOR takes place. The
locus of all economic decisionmaking, the BOAL is an autonomous legal entity
having its own income statement and balance sheet. Within an ENTERPRISE the
BOAL is the smallest distinguishable technological entity producing a marketed
or marketable output.
CHAMBER OF THE ECONOMY:
All associations of a province, republic, or the federation constitute a
chamber of the economy. It is not only a consultative body; it also has
certain quasi-legislative functions, insofar as it prepares and signs SOCIAL
COMPACTS with SOCIOPOLTICAL COMMUNITIES and trade unions on behalf of
consenting members (ENTERPRISES).



- 50 -
COMMUNAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE: (See PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE)
*COMMUNE:
The basic unit of decisionmaking in the sociopolitical sphere; its counterpart
in the economic sphere is the BOAL.
*COMPOSITE ORGANIZATION OF ASSOCIATED LABOR (COAL):
Sometimes called a Complex Organization of Associated Labor. The Yugoslav
term for an organization in which several ENTERPRISES have agreed to
collaborate in accord with a SELF-MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT. That agreement
generally covers the POOLING OF LABOR AND/OR RESOURCES. An ENTERPRISE can be
a member of several COALs.
COOPERANT:
An INDIVIDUAL SECTOR farmer who chooses to enter into a production agreement
with the social sector on a per annum basis.
*DECENTRALIZATION:
Under the prevailing Yugoslav usage, the term applies to the process of
rearranging political and general economic decisionmaking power to the lowest
level of SOCIOPOLITICAL COMMUNITY in whicn such decisions can reasonably be
made. The term is also used in a broader sense that encompasses destatization
and is close to the use of the term common in other socialist countries.
*DELEGATE SYSTEM:
The Yugoslav term to denote the particular form of citizen or worker
participation under SELF-MANAGEMENT. Delegates are elected at the level of
the smallest unit within a COMMUNE or BOAL and in turn elect delegates at the
next broader level, and so on. Delegates have strictly limited terms. They
do not give up their prior status as workers; they must solicit the views of
their constituency on any important issues on which they will vote; they can
be recalled at any time if the constituency decides that its views or
interests are not being adequately represented.
*ENTERPRISE:
The direct translation from Serbo-Croatian would be "work organization" (WO).
Most enterprises comprise several BOALs as their principle units; an
enterprise is constituted by a SELF-MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT between BOALs.  The
stronger and more permanent identity of BOALs is evidenced by the right of
BOALs to seperate from the enterprise under certain conditions and either
constitute themselves as individual enterprises or join another one.
FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES; (FC)
The Federation of Cooperatives in Kosovo is comprised of representatives from
83 cooperatives (Zadrugas), BOALs, and BCOs. (Approximately 30 of the BOALs
are also members of Agrokosova.) A coordinating and planning organization for
these agricultural organizations, the FC has decisionmaking power on matters
crucial to the sector as a whole. FC's main role is to promote the
association of agriculturalists and, through the BCOs, INDIVIDUAL SECTOR
development. The FC is governed by a general assembly comprised of two
GMP - Gross Material Product, a measure of total output excluding all
"nonproductive activities";  health, education, administration, defense,
banking and housing.



- 51 -
delegates from each BCO, BOAL, and Cooperative. The Presidency of the
assembly (which consists of a President and Secretary) is nominated by the
Provincial Government.
HARMONIZATION:
The Yugoslav term for the process of compromise that is undertaken to
coordinate and achieve consensus on all economic and sociopolitical plans.
INSTITUTE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: (!ED)
A WO within Agrokosova whose function is primarily research, analysis and
planning. Recently, IED has been given responsibility for the preparation of
regional agricultural development projects within Kosovo.
INDIVIDUAL SECTOR:
Agriculture in Yugoslavia is characterized by the parallel existence of two
sectors: the social and individual. The social sector is comprised of
AGROKOMBINATS, ZADRUGAS, and other organizations such as veterinary and
research stations which operate under principles of social ownership of means
of production. The individual sector refers to the large, private sector that
dominates primary production agriculture in Yugoslavia. The individual sector
owns 84% of all arable land in Yugloslavia, but accounts for only 72% of total
agricultural production. Individual sector farms average 2-4 ha. and are
usually fragmented into 7-10 tiny plots. Fragmentation and small farm size
coupled with low, stagnant productivity and employment opportunities have
contributed to making the individual sector the major determinant of overall
low productivity in Yugoslavia's agricultural sector.
*ORGANIZATION OF ASSOCIATED LABOR (OAL):
The Yugoslav generic term for all legal entities that function by the
Association of Labor. This includes such entities as BOALs, ENTERPRISES, and
COALs.
*POOLING OF LABOR AND RESOURCES:
Financial links between BOALs and ENTERPRISES are established by
SELF-MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS on the pooling of resources. Such agreements
regulate the conditions under which one organization temporarily makes
financial resources available to another. The arrangement can be a
traditional mediunr-term or long-term credit arrangement. It more frequently
and increasingly implies the sharing of income and risk under joint pooling.
*PRIORITY ACTIVITY:
An economic activity singled out in the SOCIAL PLAN of a SOCIOPOLTICAL
COMMUNITY as being of special importance. Through SOCIAL COMPACTS, priority
activities have a higher degree of coordination and stronger commitments for
implementation in the planning of affected ENTERPRISES than nonpriority
activities. They also have the first claim to resources in the financing of
investment programs and projects.



- 52 -
PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE (PCC):
A regional organization set up to be the main link between the Kosovo Regional
Development project and the Provincial Government. More specifically, the
Committee will provide regional coordination and policy guidance, approve
annual plans and resolve major issues. It will meet quarterly, be chaired by
the President of the Committee for Agriculture, and report directly to the
Provincial Executive Council.  PCC decisions are passea to the projecit
director in the FC and through him to similarily constituted Communal
Coordinating Committees. Delegates from all implementing and legislative
organizations involved in the project are represented on the PCC. The duties
of the COMMUNAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE are comparable to those of the PCC, but
at the Commune level. The CCC is chaired by the President of the Commiune.
*SELF-MANAGEMENT:
The Yugoslav term, akin to direct democracy, indicating that decisionmaking
power is the exclusive prerogative of individuals who have to carry out
decisions or are directly affected by them. Self-management excludes
decisionmaking by elected representatives who are legally autonomous
throughout their term.
*SELF-MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS (SMA):
A specific form of contract concluded among individuals- for example, on the
ASSOCIATION OF LABOR within a BOAL- or among social sector organizations- for
example the POOLING OF LABOR AND RESOURCES among BOALs within an ENTERPRISE.
The time horizon of such agreements extends over a five-year plan period or
longer.  Although reversible, tney are normally expected to establish a
permanent relationship.
*SOCIAL PLANNING:
The Yugoslav term for planning by SOCIOPOLITICAL COMMUNITIES.
*SOCIOPOLITICAL COMMUNITY;
The Yugoslav term for a territorial unit having political and administrative
functions. Sociopolitical communities comprise the federation, the republics
and provinces, and the communes.
*SOCIOPOLITICAL ORGANIZATION:
The Yugoslav term embracing the following organizations: The League of
Communists of Yugoslavia (LCY), the Socialist Alliance, the Confederation of
Trade Unions, the Veterans Federation, and the Union of Socialist Youth.
WORK ORGANIZATION (WO): gee ENTERPRISE.
ZADRUGA (Agricultural Cooperative):
The Yugoslav term for agricultural cooperative. In Yugoslavia, there are two
types: (a) A cooperative closely associated with the social sector (often
part of an AIK) where the farmers are formally associated - that is all labor
and resources (i.e. land) are pooled. (b) The second sort is more loosely
associated with the social sector. Member farmers share all inputs, but
retain private ownership of their land. Zadrugas can be comprised of several
OA's.



Base costs                                              Totals Iricludiog CootonBeinie
¶        2         3         4         5       6     Total         0         2        3         4         5       6      Total    RoateEsA.
1,INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ON- FART INVESTTMENTS
DAIRY                                              1,775,9  3,242.3 33,T9O.0  4,340.3    119.5    - 13,662,0  1.93903  3.614,6  3.034.2  8,100.0    170.2    - 17,058.3  0.05  0.38
SNOEP                                                 632.2  2,132,6  3,067.4  4,339.0  1,177,1    - 17,149.1    60913  2,509.1  4,879.6  5,830.5  1,676.4    - 15,15.0~ 0,05  0.29
tROLL SCALE IRRIGATION                               161.8    745.8    529,0    008,2         44.5     -    1,470.0    176.6    408.8    680.4    521lo          63.4     -    1,836.0  0,55  0.62
ORCNAROO                                           1,010.7  1,704.9  2.253.'  2,319.7  1.809,1               9,854.2  8,110.3  2,005.9  2,883,5  3,116,6  2.047,6    - 11,723.8  0,01  0.32
NECNAWI2ATISN                                      1,200.9  2,000.7  2,165,T  8,208,9             - -        6,529.2  1,020.1  2,424.5  2,000.0  1,029.1             - -        7,900.8  0,0501.63
Sob-Total IN- FOANM INUESSNENTS                       4,705.4  9,486.4 12,701.0 12,796,9  3,200.2    - 42,980.5  5,236.6 11,161.0 16,025.8 17,192.8  4,557,5    - 54,173.7
B. NRORL RADSN
RATDS                                              2,259.2  5,116,6  5,933.3  4,300.0  2,859,3    - 20,469.4  2,202.5  6,093.2  0,199.1  6,127.3  4,459.8    - 20,201.4  0.15  0.52
BR1DGES                                              187,2    422.1    488.2    308,0    231.2    -          1,604.7    223.9    543,9    674,6    523.9    360.7    -          2.327,0  0.02  0.32
NAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT                              1,111.5                                                   1,111.3  1,329.1          -                             -     -    1329,1  0.10        1
1E0109 AND DSLPRVOiSION                                73.9    107.      19l2.7    139,5      93.0    -        06.2       07.0    215.2    260.3    205.2    140.0                9 20.5  0.15  0.32
Sob-Total RURAL 90005                                  3,631.U  1,700.0  6,014.2  4,795.5  3,184.1    - 23,910.0  4,342,7  7.312,3  9,140.0  7,056.4  4,960.5    - 32.817,9
C. OARICOI.TURAL COOPERATIVE CENSERS
1. DEPOTS - 1111 TONS                                440.5    000.7    440.5    440.5    440.5    -          2,422.0    526.0    850.0    618,7    640,1    627.0    -           ,021.9  0.15  1.03
2. DEPOTS - 300 TINS                                 431.3    431,3    431.3    431. 3       431.3    -      2,156.4    510.0    555.7    596.0    634.6    672.7    -          2,974.0  0.15  0.32
3. NILE COLLECTION CNERTSA
OFFICE F62011URE AND EQUIPMFENT                    39.9      39.8      47.8      41.8      19.8     -       199,1      15.7     51.0      66.0      60.5      62.1     -       27b.7  0.15  0.57
NILI, COLLECTION EUIOIFENT                         301,      51.0      01.6      81.6      61.2    -        306.1     76.6      05.7    112.0    120.1        95.5    -        420.0  0,85  0.65
FOOL FONPS AND TONES                               4, 40.8        40.     8 40,8      4     11 4.8  -      204.1      40.0      52.6      56.4      60.1      63.7    -        21,5  6.15  0.85
Sub-Total NILK COLLECTION CENTERS                    101.7    131.7    170.2    164.3    141.9         -       709.3    171.1    169,6    235,2    241.7    221.3    -            999,
4. FNAAM NARKETS                                          -     22.1      94.0      22.0      22.0     -       110.1         -      20,4      60,9      02.4      34,9            156.0  0.15  0.32
Sot-Total NARIC10LTERAL COOPERATIVE CENTERS              973.0  1.240,6  1.096.0  1,000.0  1,035.6              5,290.5  1,162.7  1,695.1  1,500.7  1,556.0  1,615.3    -          7,441.7
D. LAND CDSNOLlIOTI0N
EQUIPMENT i4lCL 0PA9E PARTS                          091.2    407,0           -        -          -    -     1,179.0    718.0    546.7           -         -         -    -     1,261.5      5      1
LOAD CO.40SLIOATISN 40  SURVEYF                      367.9    447.2    456.0    167,2    107.2         -    1.605,6    470.3    626.3    684.9    267.0    203.6          -    2,340.6  0.25   0,2
Sub-Total LAND CINSSLIIATION                           1,059,1    935.0    456.0    167.2    183.2        -    2,784.8  1,197.1  1,173.0    624.9    267.5    283.6           -    3,606.1
E. IRRIATINON REIOABILATATION
CIVIL WORKS                                          165,4    480.4    488.4            - -         -        1,172.1    223.6    629.3    674.9            -         -    -    1,527.9  0.15  0.51
PRIMARY AND SECONDNRY NETW0ORK                               3,491.7  3,673,3    408.1            -    -    7.573.2          -  4.4993  5,078.1    000.6             -     -   10,170.0  0.15  0.65
TERTIARY NETWORK                                          -1,753.1  1,617.6    404.4             -     -     3,775,2         -2,259,0  2,235.4    595.1              -     -    5,009.5  0.05  0.62
FOARM OPRI44LARO                                                    -  1,260.4          -         - -        1,260.4              -    -1,741.7            -         - -        1,741.7  0.15       1
DRAINAGE AND SOIL IMPROVEMENTS                           -      51.1    744.1          -         -    -     1,295.1                828,   1,028.2        -         -     -    1,867.1  0.15  0.36
0E1008 AND SUIPERVISION                               539.6    165.2    146.8           -                       51.6    095.3    212.8    202.9            -         -     -    1,U 1,1  0.15  0.22
lab-Total IRRIGATIIN RENABOLATATISN                     734.9  6,549.4  7,930.6    812.6             -    - 16,037.5    979.0  8,439,4 10,959.1  1,195.2                -          1,47L22
F. DRAINAGE 94D FLOOD CONTRIL
1. INFRAOT9UCTOAE
CIVIL 80000                                           -    30.0    484.1            -         -     -       785.9         -    380,9    809.0          -          -    -     1,057.9  0.15  0.50.
SOIL INPROVEMENT                                            -   -      81O.5 ---                             012          -         -     112.6         -         -    -       112.6  1.15  0.28                 -tt
FOARM ROADS                                            -    110.1    110.1          -         -     -      220.2          -     141,9    152.2          -         -    -       294.1  0.15  0.32                 t
COMPENOTATION                                          -     13.1      22.9          -         -    -        36.0         -      10.9      21.0                                 40.5  0.10                 t
DE00109940 SUFERVISION                             30,7      36.7      34,9                                1    08.3   93.9     47,3      40.2          -         -    -       139,4  1.150.2           - o       0
LAND COI81OLISATIDN                                   -      72.7      53.2      35.5         -     -       161.2         -     93.2      73.5      52.2          -    -       219,3  0.15  0.2~2
lob-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                              36.7    524.4    786,6        35,5               -     1,393.2      43.9    680,6  1,087,0        52.2         -     -    1,071,0t. 8~,t
2. CR00116 CONSNDL                        -   ~~~~~~~~~~546.0    110.4  --                   1,D57.2         -     704.6    705.3                               1,409.9  0.15   0.3   ~
--------        ----- -         -------       -   ------------   ----  ----------   ----  --   -----
Sab-Total DR61NAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL                      36.7  1,081.2  1.297,0       25.5          -    -     2,450.4      43.9  1,393,3  1,792.3        52.2         -     -    3,201.7                               o    1     ,      2
EOOIPFNN                                            073.1          -         -         -        -     -       673.1    7710,-0-                                                  770,0   1.1       1 I
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   52.0         -         -         -         -    -        52.0      5A.4         -         -         -         -     -       59.4   0.1       I1
Su-Total 89010 - RURAL COAN0NICATINSO                    725.0         -         -                         -      725.0    829.4          -         -                   -     -      829,4 
H. INSTITUTE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPKEMT
VEHICLES , EDOOFOENT AND FURNITURE                    24.5       6.1          -         -         -    -        30.6      28.0       7,5         -                        -        35.6   0.1  0.65
00E00091 TRAINING                                      11.3     11.3      11.3          -         -    -        33.9      12.9      13.9      14.9                                 41,80 S.O        I
Sub-Total INSTITUTE IF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMFENT              35.0      17.4      11,3         - -          -          64.5      40.9      21.5      14.9              -       -           77,3
I. FERTILIZER CREDIT                                  1.374,9  1,374.9  1,623,2  2,062.3  1,833.1    -           ,270.4  It429,F  0,340.5  1,952.9  2,039.9  3,486.3    - 10,040.4              0  0.70
J. FEDERATION IF COOPERATIVES
BUILDIONS                                            127,6    137.6           -         -         -    -       275,3    160.3    172.2-7                                          333,1  0.12  0.32
VEHICLES                                               2.2.3     20.3         -         -         -    -        42.6      26.0      25.5         -         -               -       51,4  0.12  0.63                                      0'v
EQUIPMENT AND0 OFFICE FUR4INISHIO                      25.9     10.0          -                   -    -        30.0      30.1      12.5         -                   -     -       42.6  0.12  0.57                                      1
COHNSULTANTS AND OVERSEAS TRAINING                    144.6      67.0     61.b      29.4          -    -       303.7    168.4       85.0      02.1      42.1         -     -      377,6  0,12       0 
lob-Total FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES                     330.4    235.6       61.0      29.4         -    -       656,4    384.8    295.7        82.1      42.1         -    -        094.7
0. ANMANL HEALTN
BUILDINGS                                             75.2      86.3       0.0.     50,7      45.9    -        346.9      90.0    111,1    011.,6      88.4      70.6             470.7  0.15  0.32
VEHICLES                                              50.37    53.7           -        -          -    -       103,4      60.0      65.3         -         -         -    -       128,6  0.15  0.63
EQUIPMENT                                             24.       22.2          -        -         -    -         46.5      29,0      28.7         -         -         -    -        57.7  0.15  0.02
Oub-Total ANIMAL HEALTH                                  150.2    061.2      00,1       51.7     43.9    -        496,0    179.7    207,8    111.6         86.4      71,6    -       657,0
L. KBF - CREDIT SERVICE IMPRSSENENT
VENICLES                                              64.9          -         -         -         -    -        64.9      74.3         -         -         -         -    -        74,3   0.1  0.02
OFFICE FURNISAING AND EQUIPMENT                        07.0         -         -         -         -    -        17.0      19.4         -         -         -         -     -       19.4   0.1   0,4
CONSULTANTS                                          107,1      10.3       9.0          -        -     -       187.5    191.2       13,9      11.9         -         -    -       217,1   0.1       I0
lab-Total KAP - CREDIT SEASlCE INPOVYEMET                249.0      11.3       90          -         -    -       269.3    284.9       12.0      11,9         -                       10,7
9. EXTENSOIN SERVICE
TRA1NING                                              326.1     56.0      13.6          -         --           395.7    373.0       69,1      18,0         -46- 00.   0.1   0.1
VEHI1CLES                                             300.2    100.3       48.7      18.3         -    -       533.4    343.4    205.0        04.3      25.2                      630.4   D.1  0.63
EQUIPMENT - OFFICE                                     46.2     26.1        80.         -        - -            80,4      52.9      32.2      1006         -         -    -        95.7   0.0   0,0
EIIIPENET - DEAl                                      38.A                   -         -       -                38.8      44.4         -         - -       -      -                44.4   0.1  0.85
lab-Total 0E70E01098 SERUICE                             701.2    248.5       70,3      18.3         - -        1,040.3    812.7    356.3        92,9      25.7         - -        1,250.8
A. INCREMENTAL MOAKING CAPITOL                         1076,5  1,228.0 61,324.3  1,503,4  1,321.7    -          6,514.4  1,019. 10,376.7  1,051.3  1,923.7  1.800,2    -           7,077.4      0      0
Total INSESTMENT COITI                                   05.003,3 28,201.1 30,317,2 21,337.7 10,797.0         -111,t17.1 07.945,9 94,086,4 44,020,6 32,039.1 15,706,9    -144,677,8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       50332,8.  3=3~,3=7,2 23,2327,7 1=0=,7~97.09            116,  1_7=,9451.9 3=4=,86.42 4Z4,020,   2081  5769              -   4,7
…-- -   - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           - - - - - - - - - --- - - -- - -- - -            - - -      - - - --- - -    -- --------…-…---------------…-…- -…-
Na-e ID, 1983 111D2
NB   Lacoltto             to    S$; SrLotod  In UO$



-- - -- -    ss--- -   -----                            Totals-- -   --   -- -o-- --- -- -- --- -- -- -- t-- -- --- -- ---i - -- -   --- -     -
A. ON-'A88M 1N0E8TM89TT
SNALL 0018CALE    878                               12.0    25.8    39.5    28.7    3.3       -   1088.7    14.4    39,3   7335    64.7         8.8    -    233. 8.582
9A6R5T7,                                                   2. I 166,7   131.8 187.81             II771      8. 19   3.8II&  311.9 II 3,4   37,8          1,385.4    05.3 832
E80849170T128                                      8,      152.    152.  49.1  8.                           08.0   234.1   288.1   281,4         -          B 29,   8.85  3.83
STbotoal 84- 7888 INVESTMENTS                         254.7   731,8   939.4   946.5  2328.7    -3,878.9   428.3 0,077.3 1,783.3 2,131,7   639,7   6- 04.848
B. 814.9L 98858
ROADS                                              187.1   338,4   419.8   818.0  211.5          1,32.    321.0   838.    982,1   784.3   836.0        -  8.lT2,1  8.15  2.32
RI218                                               188      31.2    36.1    28.      7.           348      193      525     74.2    83.0    38.8           288.8  0.15  5.32
1E3288 098 5o4888ER 3                                3,45.   12,4    14.3    18.3    6.9      -    48.8      7.  250.9    29.3    35.4    20.5         -    153.2  8.15  3.32
8-Ttl  4UA   82                                      8.       22,0   489.23584.7  285.5    -1,771.8   855.2   708.6 1,183.8   874,9   697,1             -  3,642,8
1. A89IL70URAL COOPERATIVE 0888888
1.884878-2 10208T80                               31 31    319       1.     31.8   31.      -   158.3     832      3.       8.8     7.       940      -    345  2.05  32.3
'7781 PUMPS 088 78488                             3.5     3.0      3.0      3.5    3.0    -    1.8        4.00    5.1      0.3      7,4     8.7           3 1.7  0.13  5.83
o-Tot~alK C137 LECT018088CENTER                    7.5      87      22.      12:1A  10.      -    52,      9.9    18.9    25.9    30.0       8.             1.
8    t 4844:'"AR  858E87                              -      18        3.5    1.          8 0.I80             -      2.7      6.7     4.0      4.8    -      18.   3.10  0,32
I L-TotDl 50RT011LT0RAL 20040887800F C887899           72,5    92.8   680.3    78.3   78.8    -    99.3    85.2   155.5   185.1   193.0   22,7    -    335.7
1890   SOID I0981870  AN5 089287Y                  27.2    33.1    33.7    83.4   12.4    - 1I I8          39.8    88.      75.4    23.2    88.8    -       280.8  8.0231  3.2
Oo,o-Tats8 LAND 208381188T138                          78.7    88.2    33.7    12,4   13.84      -   3080    97.0   083.0    75.4    28.2    39.8         -    358.5
818880 998 00088388  8878098K                               259.8'  27:1.    38.2        -          0, I            438.    558.      745         -         ,1067,   0.850 8.8
TER0889Y 987888                                             129.7   119"I    39.8        -        279,3             2 18.1  42. ?     73.9B                 537.68  0.15  0.82
4899 R 8 A914918IL IMRVEET-4.                                       432         -                  3.                 - 088                                198.8  0.15  0.3
5980980  998 SUPRII ON85809                       -?,      192  .22 1,         -                 0.                 87    8.                                9.1  0.85  8.38
885888 895 8489088104                 3.8.  1.2..        15.    - ----   ------ --83, -- 52.            20.3--   22.---  ---- ----  ---  9-.83.138.2
3u8-Total 8R880908D8 08E8A87LATATI39                   54.9   484,8   388.8    88.1         -    - 1,005,9    78.8   889.7 1,305.8   088.2           -    -  2,740.8
1. 1848937TR0789U                                                                                                                                                                                   0
ClU I 8L 9 -OK                                           22,3    35.:8         ---             8,         -_87.5    73.8              -        -    -      0,   0.85  2.31
8.a-ooO   891281780                    .7    395       8.      28              - o0,          7.8788.2   819.          8.5                    861                        0     98
882888 207900-                                422      3.0- ---- ---                                                    ---- 82  78 - ----  ---  - 4--- 082-.3--
8u8-T:tal D9884988 A98 4LO88 C087411                    3.7    90.0    95.9       2.8            -   8812       8.8   134.5   807.5       6.5        -    -     3149
G. RAD30 - 80881 COMMUNICAT1IONS
3,O-oT,Il 88888 - RURAL C88829108T1O48                 53.8-6.                                                 8.8.8
VEHICLES , 810199E87 882URIUE                         :   4891708  .8  .5  …       …      …… 8                        0.7…        …       ……                    … 5.   8.85,6
77808  78194                                          8.8a868-                           -    -       .       .        .       .         -        -    -       40     .0      1
Sb-ToaL  89807078240034480 838184997       2.  ----3        2.8--  ---- ----  ---          4.8--   3.3--   -----  -----  ---- ----  ---  ----1
I,F PT901.18ER4ERE                                    808.0   8087    820.2   1852.0  175.8      - 6885.7 18.9 188.7   2814.8   327.2   348.                 118,0            87
J. 4E088987008 77 080488871880
FUKLDISO                                            82.2    10.          -     --3           .4       3.             18.~7-89  0.:12  0.33                                                                 8
07498178978 898 2888799      14848TAIIN             88.7      5.8      4.5     2.32                22.4    13.9       8.2     8.0      5.2                      6  83 2.1     1
8ub-Tata2 4E88047129 OF 222PERA718AS                   28.4    17.4       4.5     2.2       -    -    48.5    31.3    38.5        9.0     3.2        -    -      74.3
90829235.8                                                    8.4     8.8      4.3    3.4    -     25.7      74    18.7    12,3   107.7    12.8               51.81  8.885  3.3
08EH±8                                               3.E39S                               -   -I.            5.3      8 ……                       …           0.   2.8 1 0    1.8
8201488NT                                            1.8      1.           ---- 3                   4        2.4      2.8       -        -        -    -       5.8  2.15  5-.862
0.1-Tootl 98198L '0408                                 11.1    11.7       6.2     4,3    3.4     -    38.7    14.7    38.1    12.2    18.7    18,2    -           7.8
1. 889 - 090287T 88808C8 88498889897
04488---------     090--J-----1. …                                …      …              …       … 13-18 -                  -       --                     -I----8.
CE987911.4                                                  08      891.                                   15.:.6.                              -    -     0.       . 
9.~~~~~~ 08788882  389870
88007489-ANT   8012.4                                         10,      8.8                           543     43        .1      8.5                              .      .     .
3a8-Total 881090139 3895808-52.                    18.9--    5.5--   1.4 - ----  --  --7-5    88.5--       29.8- ------      3.3--  -----  ---     18---.-
Oso 9883T8t  9  02070EITSKIC   IPOQMN                  1,174.  7.281    2842176.   79.8            - 9,23,       234873 3 16.  4633 13,934221.              -1,8.3
YEoHI 2C80    an.=000. .2 0,3228.020038,  3.2080.1   16



Base Costs                                   Totals Includms Contlos,.oooes              Phu.
----~~-------------------------------------------- ----~---------------------------------------------- Cont. For.
I       2       3        4      5     t   Total       0       2        3        4       5     6   Total   Rate Et h,
1. 1N0ESTMENT TOUTS
A. ON- FARM I1EST8ENTS
DAIRY                                             1128.   205.8   253.4   2S8.4    7.6    -   868.1   123.2   242.3   319.7  387.4    10.6    - 1,83.4  O.85  0.28
SHEEP                                              40,1   135.4   245.6   275.6   748    -   771,6    43.8   159.4   309.9   370.3  106.5    -   989.9  0,05  0.29
SMALL SCALE IRROIATIDA                             10.3    22.8    33.6    24,7    2.8    -    93.4    11.2    25.8    42.5    33.1          4.0    -   116.7  8.85  0,62
ORCHARDS                                           64,6   108.3   143.1   147.3  118.1           581,4    70.5   127.4   180.6   197.9   168.1    -   744.6  0.85  0.32
HECHAN1IZTION                                      76.B   130.9   130,9    76,8        -    -   415.3    R3.B   154.b   165.1   103.1          -    -   506.1  O.O5  0.63
Sub-Total ON- FARh INVESTMENTS                       304.6   602.5   806.7   812,7  203.2    - 2,729.7   332.6   708.8 1,017.8 1,091,9   289.4    - 3,440.6
P. RURAL ROADS
ROADS                                             143.5   325.0   376.8   273.1  180.6    -1,299.9   071,6   418.7   520.7   401.8   283.2    - I.796.1  0.15  0.02
BRI80ES                                            11.9    26.8    31.0    22.6   14.7           107.0    14.2    34.5    42.8    33.3    22.9           147.8  1.15  0.32
HAINTENANCE EQUIPAENT                              70.6…  - …                             -       70.6    84.4        -       -                -    -     84.4  0.15      8
0ESI8N AND SUPERVISION                              4.7    10.6    12.2       B.9    5.9    -    42.3      5.6    13.7    16.9    13.0       9.3    -    58.5  0.15  0.32
Sub-Tstal RURAL R080S                                 230.6   362.4   420.1   304.6  202.2    -1,519.8   275.8   466.9   5BO.5   443.2   315.4    - 2,086,B
C. AGRICULTURAL COOPER5TIVE CENTERS
1. DEPOTS - 1000 TONS                              28.0    42.0    28.0    23.0   23.0    -   153,9    33.5    54.1    38.7    41.2    43.6    -   211.0  0.15  0.32
2. DEPOTS - 300 TONS                               27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4   27.4    -   137.0    32.8    35.3    37.9    40.3    42.7    -   I0S.9  O.15  0.32
3. NIL COLLECTION CENTERS
OFFICE FURNITURE AND EDUIPMENT                   1.9     2.5      3.0     2.7    2.5    -    12.0       2,3      3.3     4.2      3.9     3.9    -    17.6  8.15  0.57
NILK COLLECTION EUJIPMENT                        1,9      3.2     2.2      5.2  23.9    -    19.4       2.3      4.2     7.2      7.6     6.1    -    27.4  0.15  6.65
FUEL PU90S AND TANKS                             2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6    2.6    -    13.0      3.1      0.3     3.6      3.8     4.0    -    17.9  0.15  0.65
Sub-Total MILK COLLECTION CENTERS                   6.4     0.4    10.8    10.4    9.0    -    45.0        7.7    10.8    14,9    15.3    14.1    -    62,8
4, PARN M4ARETS                                       -      1.4     2.8      1.4    1.4    -      7.0        -     I.s     3.9      2.2     2.2    -      9,9  9.15  0.32
Sub-Tutal AGRICULTURAL [BOPERATIVE CENTERS            61.8    79.1    69.0    67.2   65.8    -   342.8    73,9   101.9    95.3    98,9   102.6    -   472,6
D. LAND CONSOLIDATION
EOUIPMENT INCL SPARE PARTS                         43.9    31.0        -        -      -    -    74.9    45.7    34.7         -        -       _    -    80.4      0      1
LAND CONSOLIDATION AND SUR0 ET                     23.4    2B.4    29.0    10,6   10.6    -   102.0    30.4    39,8    43.5    17.0    18.0              148.7  0.25   0.2
Sub-Total LAND CDN5OLIDATION                          67.3    59,4    29.0    10.6   10.6    -   176.9    76.0    74.5    43.5    17.0    18.0    -   229.D
E. IRRIORTODN REHABILAT4TIDN
CIVIL LORKS                                        12,4    31.0    31.0         -      -    -    74.4    14.8    40.0    42.9          -       -    -    97.7  0.15  0.51
PRIH4RY AND SECONDARY NETWORK                          -   221.8   233.3    25.9        -    -   481.0        -   28.8   322.4    38.1         -    -   646.3  0.10  0.65
TERT1ARY NET49RK                                      -   111.3   102.7    25.7        -    -   239.B        -   143.5   142.0    37.8         -    -   323.2  0.15  0.62
FARM SPRINKLERS                                        -       -    80.0        -      _    -    80.0             -   -   110.6        -        -    -   110.6  0.12      I
0RAINAE 4AND SOIL IKPPNEHENTS                         -    41.3    47.3         -      -    -    88.6        -    53.3    85.3         -       -    -   11086  0.15  8.36
DESI0   AND SUPERVISIDN                           34.3    00.0      9.3        -      -    -    54.1    41.0    10.5    12.9              -              67.4  0.12  0.32
lub-Total IRRIGATION REKABILATATION                   46.7   416.0   503.7    51.6        -    - 1,017.9    55.8   536.0   696.0    75.9          -    - 1,363.8
F. DRAINARE 4ND FLOOD CONTROL
1. INFRASTRUCTURE
CIVIL WVRES                                        -    19.2    30.7         -      -    -    49.9        -    24.7    42.5         -       -    -    67,2  O.15  0.51
SOIL IMPROVEMENT                                   -        -     .2         -     -     -      5.2       -        -     7.1        -       -    -      7.1  0.15  0.28               r
FARM ROADS                                         -      7.0     7.0        -      -    -    14.0        -      9.0     9.7        -       -    -    1B.7  0.15  0.32                0           0
COMPE6STATIDN                                      -      0.8     1.5        -                  2.3       -      11     2.0        -       -    -      3.1  0.15     0              - 
0ESIN AND SUPEPVISION                           2.3      2.3     2.2        -      -    -      6.9     2.8      3.0     3.1        -       _    -           0.15  0.32         c0
LAND CONSOLIDATION                                 -      4.6     3.4      2.3      -    -    10.2        -      5.9     4.7      3.3       -    -    13.9  0.05  0.22
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                            2.3    33.9    50.5      2.3       -    -    88.5      2.8    43.7    69.0       3.3       -    -   I18.7                   - h      o    g
2. EROSION CONTROL                                    -    34.7    32.4         -      -    -    67.1         -    44.B    44.8        -       -    -    89.0  0.15   0.3       2-       'a H  >    H    t
Sub-Total DRAINAGE A4N  FLOOD CONTROL                   2.3    68.7    82.4      2.3      -    -   155.6      2.8    88.5   113.8       3.3        -    -   208.4                     r
8. RADIO - RURAL COMMUNICATIONS                                                                                                                                                     P   t         3    DO
ESUIPMENT                                          42.7                                           42.7    48.9                                            48.9   .1    1I
TECANICAL ASSISTANCE                                3,3                                            3.3     3.8                                             3.8   0.1      1              ,I E
Sub-Total RADIO - RURAL CSHHUNICATIONS                 46.0                                          46.0    52,7                                            52.7                            Ea         04
H. INSTITUTE IF ECOSONIC DEVELOPHENT                                                                                                                                                         0           n
VEHICLES , E8UIP8ENT AN4  FURNITURE                 1.6      0,4       -        _      _    -      1.9     1.8      0,5        -       _       _    -      2.3   0.1  0.65
OVERSEAS TRAININS                                   0.7      0.7     0.7                           2.2     8.8      0.9     0.9        -       -    -      2.7   0.1      1
Sub-ToSal INSTITUTE OF ECOOMMIC SEVELOPhENT            2.3      1,0     0.7        -      -    -      4.1     2.6      1.4    0D9         -       -    -      4.9
I. FERTILIZER CREDIT                                  87.3    S7.3   103.2   131.0  116.4    -   525.3    90.6    97.8   124.0   167.6   157.9    -   638.2            0  0.78
3. FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES
BUILDIN                                           87       8.7        -       -            -    17.5    10.2    11.0        -        -       -    -    21.2  0.12  0.32
VEHICLES                                             1.4     1.3        -       -       -    -     2,7      1.7     1.6        -       _        _          3.3  0.12  0.63                                     .,
EQUIPMENT AND OFFICE FUEIEHIN6b 1.6                          U6                                    2.3     0.9      0.9        -       -       _    -      2.7  0.12  0.57                                     F  2
CONSULTANTS AND OERSEAS TRAINING                    9.2     4.3     3.9      1.9       -    -    19.2    10.7      5.4     5.2      2.7        -    -    24.0  0.12      1                                    0o >'
Dub-Total FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES                   21.0    15.0      3.9     1.9       -    -    41.7    24.4    18.8       5.2     2.7        -    -    51.1                                                     cr
K. ANINAL HEALTH
BUILDINGS                                           4A       5.5     5.1      3.7    2.9    -     22.0    .57       7.1     7.1      5.5     4.5    -    29.7  0.15  0.32
VEA6ICLES                                           2.2      3.3       -   -        -      -       6.6      DR?     4.3       - -          -      -        8.2  0.15  0.63
E08IPME4T                                           1.5      1.4       -        -      --          3.0     1.8      1,8       -        -       -    -       .7  0.15  0.62
Sub-Total ANIMAL HEALTH                                 9.5    10.2     5.1      3.7    2.9    -    31.6    11.4    13.2        7.1     2.5      4,5         41.7
L. KBP - CREDIT SERVICE IMPROVEMENT
VEHICLES                                            4.1…         …      …      …       …      …   4.1      4.7…         …       …      …      …       … 41.70 81  0.63
OFFICE FURNISHING AND EQUIPHENT                       1…1 -                     -. 4                    1  1.2…                                              2   01   04.
CONSELTA4TS                                        10.6      0.7     0.6        -      -    -    11.9    12.1       0.9     O',        -        -    -    13.8   8.l      I
Sub-Total KbP - CREDIT SERVICE IKPROVMEHHT            15.8      0.7     0.6        -       -    -    17.1    18.1      0.9      0.8           -         -    19,7
A. EXTENSION SERVICE
TRAINI40                                           20.7      3.     08.9        -      -          25,1    23.7      4.4      1.1       -                  29.2   0.I   0.1
VEHICLES                                            19.1    10,6      3.1     1.2        3- 3.9    21.8    13.0              4,1     1.6        -         40.5   0.1  0.63
E9UIPMENT - OFFICE                                  2.9      1.7     0.5        -                  5.1     3.4      2.0     0.7        -                   6.1   0.1   0.6
EQUIPMENT - 0E8O                                     2.5                    …25                             2.8… 2                                         2.8   0.1  0.65
Sub-Total EXTENSIO8   SERVICE                         45.2    15.8       4.5     1.2      -    -    66.6    51.7    19.5       5,9      1.6        -         7- .7
N. INCREMENTAL WORKINAO CAPITAL                        60.4    78.0    87.3    95.5   84.6    -   413.7    71.1    87.4   184.9   122.2   114.7    -   080.3           0     0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                 1,008.7 1.796.1 2,116,0 1,482.2  685.8    - 7,088.8 1,039.7 2,215.6 2.795.7 2,034.7 18002,6    - 9,188.S
Total DASELINE COSTS                                    1,088.7 1.796.1 2,116.0 1,482.2  685.8        7,0B.8 1,139.7 2.215,6 2,795,7 2,034.7 1,002.6    - 9,180.5
Fobruars 24, 1983 13114
Calcu- ated  in  US$: Printed  in  DLnars



- 56-                                               ANNEX lb
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Dn, Million)          % of
…_______________________ Foreign  % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange Base Costs
A. ON- FARM INVESTHENTS                  1,820.5 1,358.4  3,178.9        42,7       38.5
B. RURAL ROADS                           1,023.1   746.?  1,770.0       42.2        21.4
C. A6RICULTURAL COOPERATIVE CENTERS        226.0   173.3    399.3       43.4         4.8
B, LAND CONSOLIDATION                       88.3   117.7    206.0       57.1         2.5
E. IRRIGATION REHABILATATION               374.8   810.6  1,185.4       68.4        14.4
F. DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL              102.9    78.4    181.2       43.2         2.2
G. RADIO - RURAL COMMUNICATIONS                -    53.6      53,6    100.0          0.6
H. INSTITUTE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT         0.6      4.1      4.8      86.7         0,1
I. FERTILIZER CREDIT                       103.8   507.9    611.7       83.0         7.4
J. FEDERATION OF COOPERATIVES               14.2    34.3      48.5      70.?         0.6
K. ANIMAL HEALTH                            18.9    17.9      36.7      48.6         0.4
L. KBP - CREDIT SERVICE IMPROVEMENT          2.1    17.8      19.9      89.5         0.2
M. EXTENSION SERVICE                        39.9    37.6      77,5      48.6        O.
N. INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL             481.8        -    481.8         -         5.8
=----   -----  --------  --------    --------
Total BASELINE COSTS                       4,296.9 3,958.6  8Y255.5    48.0         100.0
Physical Coritingencies                   380.9   365.0    745.9    48.9           9.0
Price Contingencies                     30707.7 3158.0  6,86508    46.0          83.2
Total PRGJECT COSTS                        B,385.6 7Y481.6 15,867.2    47.2         192.2
March 22, 1983 17:07
Calculated in Dinars; Printed in linars



- 57 -
ANNEX lb
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Phasing
… ------------…Project Year-------------
1        2         3         4          5          Total
Dairy - units jI                  200      360       440       500         -          1,500
Sheep - units 1'                   50      150       250       250         -            700
Orchard - units(0.5 ha)1/         340      460       550       450         -          1,800
Small scale irrigation Units    50         100       150       100         -            400
Mechanization
- Tractor sets                  50       100       100        50         -            300
- Implement sets               100       100       100       100         -            400
Fertilizer ('000 tons)./            6         6        7         9         8             36
Decane irrigation (4000 ha)         -         1       -          -         -              1
Vitina drainage (1143 ha)           -         1        -         -         -              1
Rural roads (km)
- Upgrade                       28        63        73        53        35            252
- Rehab.                        33        75        87        63        42            300
- Repair                        16        37        43        31        21            148
Land consolidation (ha)             -        -         -    5,640    5,640           11,280
Agri-service Centers 400 sq.m    5            7        9         8         7             36
150 sq.m & 50 sq.m           12        12        12        12       12             60
Milk Coll. Centers                  3         5        8         8         6             30
Agric. Extension 3/
SMA -                           63        12         -         -         -             75
EA  -                           26        17         7         -         -             50
Farmers 4/                  11,100   12,450   14,160   13,656            -         51,300
Veterinary
- New Stations                    1        1         1         1         1              5
- Station Rehab.                 -         1         2         2         1              6
- Post Rehab.                    2         3         3         1         -              9
- AI Small                        6        6         -         -         -             12
- AI Large                       4         4         4         -         -             12
1/  Project appraised on basis of these models; actual investments, which would all be
subject to KBP appraisal, would include bees (275), pig fattening (155), beef
fattening (235), apples (800), pears (100), walnut (100), hazelnut (200), strawberry
(300), vineyards (300).
2/  Incremental '000 tons/Annum.
3/ Incremental staff.
4/ New farmers contacted annually; includes all sub-borrowers and rainfed crop farms;
project area only.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M)
Cumulative
IBRD                                     Disbursement                    Disbursement
Fiscal        Period   Disbursement    at end of         Cumulative      Profile 1/
Year          Ending   During Period   Period            Disbursement   Agriculture
_ -%------   -----% -------
1984          12/31/83        2.9            2.9             4               2.5
06/30/84        4.3            7.2             9               8.6
1985          12/31/84        7.4            14.2           19              19.1
06/30/85        7.5           22.1            28              32.2
1986          12/31/85       12.4           34.5            44              46.3
06/30/86       12.5           47.0            60              60.0
1987          12/31/86        9.8           56.8            72              72.2
06/30/87        9.9           66.7            84              82.2
1988          12/31/87        8.6           75.3            95              90.0
06/30/88        3.7           79.0           100              95.9
1989          12/31/88         -              -               -            100.0
1/ March 12, 1983



A.NNEX 3
59                                                                                 Table  I
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
S0900Y PHYSICAL QUJANTITIES- TOTAL PROJECT
MAIM. PRODUfCTION
I           2            3            4            5           6            7            0            9           10           11           12          13        14-20
WITH THE PROJECT!
WHEAT (TONS)                04966.00    32400.00    55354,70    00542,80   101739.30   106626.40   110969.50   110659.00   000059.00   000659.00   110659.00   110659,00   11065900    100659.00
MAIZE (TONS)                i0925.00    26574,50    44294.50    63799.50    02203.00806716.00    03836,00    87836.00    87036.00    07836.00    98736.00    87036,00    07836,00    70736.00
SUNFLOTWER (TONS)            2117.00      7280.80    13568,00    20679,50    28550,80    33663.00    34783.00    34783,00    34783.00    34783.00    34703.00    34703,00    34703.00    34783.00
PBtAT0ES (TONSi              5486,00    12952.00    22670.00    3300500    43357,50    45707,50    46007.50    463117.50    46317.50    46317.50    46317.50    46307.50    46317.50    46317.50
SIJOARBEETS (TONS)               0.00     4200.00    11120,00    17000.00    23000,00    21800,00    25B00,00    25000.00    25800.00    25800.00    258000.00    25000.00    25800T,00    25000.00
APPLES ISPEARS (TONS)            0.00        0.00         0,00         0,00     2720,00      9040,00    17880.00    26220.00    31000.00    35690.00    38590.00    40950,00    41950,00    42400,00
VEGETABLES (TNS                 0.00      5674.00    12102,00    05072.00    17036,00    00036.00    10036.00    00036.00    10036.00    10036,00    18036,00    18036,00    10036,00    18036,00
ALFALFA HAO (TONS)           0460.00    23521.00    44910,00    68720,00    92140,00   103700,00   000100.00   108180.00   108100.00   180180,00   108180,00   108180,00   108010.00   1081000,0
MEADO0W HAY (TONS)           10995.50    29783.00   5S1150,S       73509.00    98364.00   110924.00   0176444,00   117644,00   117644,00   117644.00   117644.00   117644,00   117644,00   117644,00
90111 SILAOE (TONS)              0.00        0,00      56000,00    15200,00    22240.00    21200.00    252800.00    25280.00    232090.00    25200.00    25200,00    25200,00    25200.00    25200.00
WNEAT STRAW (TONS)          14460.80    310Q1,O0    52921,50    76945,00    98259.30   103206.40   107549.50   107239.00   107239.00   107239,00   107239,00   107239,00   107239,00   107739.00
90111 STOVER (TONS,         14805.00    34409.50    56373.50    80136,50   102069.00   105064.00   106904.00   106904.00   100984.00   106984.00   106984,00   106984.00   100904.00   106984,00
BEET TOPS i7oAs)                0.00      1400.00      3940.00     6000000      70 40.00     0640.00      0640.00      0640.00     0640,00      0040.00      0040.00      0040.00      0640.00     0640.00
BEEF MEAT  ~T0NS,LIVE)         50.00       200.32       401,62      657,80       829,00       070,40       960.50       982.30      982.20       982.20       982,20       982,20       902.20      982.20
-DWUS MIL)  1~00 LIT.)        459.20      27308.56     5311,84     9358.40    13104.00    14530.00    15900.00    16320.00    16320.00    16320.00    16320.00    16320,00    10320.00    16320,00
SHEEP AT  ~TGONSLIVE        1090        07.00       320.00      I037.53      1546.36      1083.96      2095.56     2097,06      2093.06      2097.06      209i7.06     2097.06     2097.06      2097.06
SHEEP mILS  000 LIT)           60.00       360.00      1079,05     2192.15      3195,25      3670.25      3850.00      3850.00     3805.00      3810.00      3050.00      38500,00     3850,00      3050.00
WOOL  TONS          ~            3.04       17.13        48,51        92,64       124.60      132.41       133.90       133.90       133.98      133.90       133,98       133,98       133.98       133,98
600H000 THE PROJECT:
WHEAT (TONSi                15170.00    32770.00    52273.00    74960.00    92000,00    92000,00    920880.00    92000.00    92800,00    92000.00    92800000    92080.00    ?92800.00    92888.00
MAIZE (T045,                01390.00    25413.00    40120,.00    56208,00    70768,00    70760,00    70768.00    70760,00    70768.00    70768.00    70701,00    70708,00    70768.00    70760,00
SENFLOAER (TONS)                 0.00       35.20        70.40        70,40       70.40        70,40        70.40        70.40        70.40       70.40        70,40        70.40        70,40        70.40
POTATOEs  TOlNsO             4300.00    101030.00    16555,00    24005.00    29705.00    29705.00    29705.00    29205.00    29705.00    29705.00    29705,00    29705,00    29705.00    29705.00
SUOARBEETS- (TONS)              0.00      1000.00      2000,00     2000.00      2000,00      2000.00      2000.00      2000.00     2000.00      2000.00      2000,00      2000,00      2000.00     2000.00
APPLES & PEARS 'TONS;            0.00      400.00       800.00       00.0,0      0olo  00.00 0        00.00      000.00       800.00 0      00.00 0      00.00 0      00,00 0000         00.00      000,00
VEU0LETA S (TONS)              50.00      4059.00      6057,00     6957.00      0957, 00     6957.00      6917.00      6957.00     0957.00      6957.00      6957,00      6937,00      6957.00     0957.00
ALFALFA HAY (TONS)           0460.00    18004.00    20690.00    40290.00    51498,00    51498.00    51490.00    51490.00    51490.00    51498.00    51498.00    31490.00    51498.00    51498.00
MEADOW HAT (TONS)            0083.00    22993.00    36810,50    48990,50    60750.50    60750.50    60750.50    60750.50    00750.50    6075050    60750,50    60750.50    60750,50    60750,50
MAIZE SILAGE (TONS)
WHEAT STRAW (TONS)          14664.00    31302.00    40043.00    71165.00    89085,00    09085.00    89005,00    09085.00    89005.00    09085.00    89085,00    09005.00    09085.00    09085.00
MAIZE 020010 (TONS)         10432.00    36244.00    56001.50    79291.50   101131.10   101131.50   001131.50   101131.10   101131.10   101131.50   101131.50   101131.10   101131.50   101131.50
BEET TO0'S (TONS)               3.00       400.00       800,00      800.00       000.00       000.00       800.00      000.00       8008.00      8000.00      800.00H      008.00      800.00       800.00
BEEF NE00 (TONS,LIVYE)         49.60       130.00       240.00      372,00       372,00       372,00       372.00       372.00      372.00       372.00       372.00       372,00       372,00      372,00
Loo's MILK (000 LIT.)         393.60      1102.00      0968.00     2932.00      2952.00      2912.00      2952.00     2952.00      2952.00      2952.00      2952,80      2952,00     2952.00      2952.00
SHEEP MEAT tTONS,LIVE(          32.48      129.90       292,28       45465       414.61       454.65       454.65       454.65       454.65      434.65       454,65       454,65       454,65      454.61
SHEEP MILK (000 LIT)           60.00       240.00       540,00      040,00       840.00       040.00       840.00       840.00      040.00       840.00       840,00       040.00      040.00       040.00
WOOL (TONS)                     2.54        10.16        22.86        315.10      35.56        35.56        31.16        35.56        35.56       35.56        35,56        35.56        35.56       35.56
PRO303CTION INCREMENT:
WHEAT (TINS)                 -203.20      -297,08      2981.70     15082.00     0859.30    13746.40    10089.10    17779.00    17779.00    17779,00    17779,00    17779.00    17779.00    17779.00
MAIZE (IONS)                 -473.00      0061.50      4166.50     7591.50    11515.00    11940.00    17060.00    17868.00    17060.00    17000.00    17068,00    17086.00    17068.00    17008.00
SUNFLOWER (TONS)             2117.00      7241.60    13497,60    20609.10    20480.40    33592,60    34712.60    34712.60    34712.60    34702.60    34712.60    34712.60    34712.60    34712.60
POTATOES (TONS)               900.00      2022.00      6115.00     97800,00    13652,50    16002.10    16612.50    16412.10    16012.50    06612,50    16612.50    16612.50    16612.50    16612.10
SOOAROEETS (TINS)                0.00     32QO.00      9120,00    11000,00    21000,00    23800,00    23800.00    23800.00    238000.00    23000.00    23800.00    23800.00    23000.00    23800.00
APPLES I PEARS                   0.00     -400.00      -800,00     -000.00      1920.80      0240.00    17080.00    25420.00    31080.00    34090,00    37790,00    40150.00    41.150,00    41660,00
AEOETAOLES (TONS)               0.00      0015,00      5245,00     0915,00    10079,09    11079.00    11079.00    11079.00    11079.00    11079.00    11079,00    11079.00    11.079.00    11079.00
ALFALFA NAI (TONS)               0.00     1117.00    16212.00    28422,00    40642.00    52202.00    56602.00    36002.88    56682.00    56602.00    16682,00    56682,80    56602.00    56682.08
MEADOW HAY (10NS)            2112.50      6790,00    15001,00    24590,50    37613,50    50173.30    56093.50    56B93.50    56093.10    56093.30    56093,10    56893,58    36893.50    56093.10
MAIZE SILAGE (TONI)             0.00         0.00      5600.0,0   15200,00    22240,00    25280.00    23200.00    25200.00    25280.00    25280,00    25280.00    25280,00    21200.00    25280.00
WHEAT 0T066 (TONS)            -70.20       3580,0      4705.10     0633.00    02604.30    17401.40    21824.18    21114.00    21514.00    21504.00    21514.00    21514.00    21514,00    21514.00
MAIZE STONER (TONS)         -1627.00    -1754.50       -428,00       845.00     1737.50      4732.50      5852.50      5812.50      5812.50     5852.50      5852.50      5852,50      5852.50     5052.50
BEET TOPS (TONS)                0.00      1000.00      3140,00     52800,00     7040.00      7840,00      7040.00     7040.00      7040.00      7040.00      7840.00      7840.00     7840.00      7040.00
DEEP HEAT (TONS,LIVE(            1.29       61.44       153,62      285.00       457.00       490.40       100.30       610.20      610.20       610.20       610,20       600,20       610.20      610-28
COW'S MILE (000 LIT.)          65.60      1236,4B      3343,84     6406.40    10152,00    11570.80    03028.00    13360.00    13368.60    13360,00    13368.00    13368.00    13360.00    13360.00
SHEEP MEAT (TONS,LIVE(          2.50        57.10       236.52       602.00     1091,71      1429.31      1648.91      1642.41      1642.40     1642.40      1642,41      1642.41      0642.41     1642.41
SHEEP MILK (080 LIT)            0.00       120.00       539.05     1352.15      2355.25      2020.25      3010.00      3000.08     3018.00      3010,00      3010,00      3010.00     3018.00      3010.00
WOOL (TONS)                     0.49         6.97        25,65        57.00       09.12        96.05        90.42        98.42        90.42       98.42        90,42        98.42        98.42       90.42



- 60 - 
APPRAISAL OF                                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Recent Yugoslav Trade in Major Agricultural Colmodities
1978                                   1979                                 1980
000         M                      000          M                       000         M
YUGOSLAVIA                        Tons        Din        $/Kg        Tons         Din        $/Kg         Tons        Din       $/Kg
1.    Live Animals
Imports                   6.07       258.09      1.56         3.85       277.05       2.64         4.50      299.05      2.44
Exports                  59.55      2142.06      1.32        64.00      2770.08        1.59       49.22    2554.05        1.90
Net Exports              53T.53.7  Tg    7        T29          TO        24933         T.52        44.72    2255.00        185
2.    Meat & Meat Prep.
Imports                  39.15      1163.00      1.09        55.13      1930.09       1.28        70.42    2565.7        1.33
Exports                 108.47      6393.03      2.16        80.90      5413.07       2.45        99.71    7065.7         2.60
Net Exports               69.32                               25.77                                29.28
3.    Dairy Prod. & Eggs
Imports                   0.62        37.09      2.24         9.55       253.09       0.97        10.33      259.00      0.92
Exports                  10.88       179.02      0.60        27.08       259.00       0.34         7.78      113.01      0.53
Net Exports               10.26                               18.25                                -255
4.    Cereals & Cereal Prep.
Imports                 140.15       535.09       .14      1745.81      7390.03        .16      1422.14    8255.04         .21
Exports                 256.07      2179.03       .31        31.04       624.51         .74      219.54    2953.01        .49
Net Exports              115.92      1643.04               -1714.77    -6765.08                 -1202.06   -5302 03
5.    Animal Feed
Imports                 360.85      2756.02       .28       263.89      2417.09        .34       243.09    2704.03       0.41
Exports                  75.90       321.06       .16        62.62       327.00         .19       86.57      442.00      0.19
Net Exports             -284.95                             -201.27                               156.52
6.    Fruits & Vegetables
Imports                310.48      3476.03        .41       323.20      4290.09        .49       227.94    3690.00        .59
Exports                 124.27      2888.09       .85       111.87      3778.34       1.24       151.26    4262.00       1.03
Net Exports             -186.21                             -211.33                               -76.68
7.    Sugar, Sugar Prep.
& Honey - Imports         17.76       169.06      0.35        27.62       285.03       0.38         5.99      195.08      1.20
Exports                   3.43        83.09      0.90        69.29       501.04       0.27       297.04    3948.01       0.49
Net Exports              -14.33                               41.67                               291.41
S.    Oilseeds
Tmports                238.69      2083.09       0.32       266.31      2529.06       0.35       237.46    2036.01       0.31
Exports                   5.74       170.04      1.09        74.65       758.02       0.37        12.20      287.03      0.86
Net Exports             -232.95                             -191.66                              -225.26
9.    Vegetable Oils (Fixed)
Imports                  17.69       348.03      0.72        10.93       317.08       1.07        98.18     1921.08      0.72
Exports                  14.09       276.06      0.72        40.53       928.07       0.84        16.81      388.09      0.85
Net Exports               -3.06                               29.60                               -81.37
10.   Animal Oils & Fats
Imports                   7.41       134.01      0.66         3.09        86.06       1.03         6.30      176.04      1.03
Exports                   8.26        76.01      0.34        19.56       243.05       0.46         6.15       58.70      0.35
Net Exports                -75                                16.47                      - 
11.   Processed Oils,
Animal and Veg.
Imports                  15.26       409.06      0.98        14.27       505.76       1.30        13.99      499.08      1.31
Exports                  10.30        97,00      0.34        11.72       160.09       0.50        10.26      102.04      0.37
Net Exports               -4.96                               -2.55                                -3.73
12.   Tobacco & Tobacco
Manufacturers
Imports                   3.03       266.07      3.22         4.55       443.7        3.57         7.36      638.03      3.18
Exports                  28.17      2077.03      2.70        26.85      2235.2        3.05        29.22    2591.01       3.25
Net Exports               25.14                               22.30                                21.86
13.   Beverages
imports                   9.07       150.02      0.61        79.00       290.02       0.13        26.50      175.07      0.24
Exports                 135.16      1273.08      0.35      3256.33      1797.04         .02     3083.17    2117.06       0.03
Net Exports              126.09                             3177.03                              3056.07
14.   Fertilizers Manuf.
Imports                 798.20      1873.04      0.09       717.20      1985.09       0.10       909.84    3312.03       0.13
Exports                 417.17      1299.00      0.11       464.64      2002.04       0.16       693.03    3827.02       0.20
Net Exports             -381.00                             -252.06                              -216.81
15.   Crude Fertilizers
& Minerals
Imports               2139.04       2955.06      0.05      2375.03      3693.00       0.06      2746.02    5879.00       0.08
Exports                 299.02       458.02      0.06       239.03       420.09       0.06       244.08      538.00      0.08
Net Exports           -1840.02                             -2136.00                             -2501.04



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SAPK Estimated Increase in Requirements for Agricultuiral Products
Annual                      Total SAPK Consumption                                       1980                                Project Increment
Per Capita           Human       Animal Feed, Export,                     Incremental  Production  Required          Project        As % of
Consumption       Consumptionrl  Seed and Losses           Total            Annual       Deficit    Production   Production    Renuired
1 97  3   1980   1990   1980   1990    1980        1990       1980    1990   Consumption  (Im orts)   Increment    Increment            Increment
---(Kg per year)…          …      ……-----------(000 tons) …           ………                     000-----  --  opotons) …… (000 tons)            3
WHEAT               238.0   210    190    325.0   374.0        70        32       395.0    406.0        11.0        170.0        181.0           17.8            10
MAIZE                39.0    32       24     50.0    47.0    142        302       192.0    349.0       157.0           8.0        165.0          18.0             11
OILSEEDS 2/           6.4      6.9    7.7   44.5    63.2        -         -        44.5     63.2        18.7         28.5          47.2          34.7             74
SUGARBEET 3/         14.3    16.2   19.8  167.0   260.0         -         -       167.0    260.0        93.0        126.0        219.0           23.8            11
POTATOES             26.0    30.0   36.0   46.4    70.9        22.0      44.0      68.4    114.9        46.5          -           46.5           16.1            35
VEGETABLES           75.1    85.5  106.2  136.0   218.0-        3.6      10.8    139.6    228.8         89.2         23.6        112.8           12.3            11      >
FRUIT                22.5    27.0   35.9   41.8    70.8         4.5      11.2      46.3     82.0        35.7         15.2          86.6          41.6            48
MEAT                 13.8    20.6   27.0   31.9    53.1         8.4      15.8      40.3     68.9        28.6         12.2          40.8           2.2              5
MILK (Liters)4/    131.0   149.0  183.0  230.0   361.0          -         -       230.0    361.0       131.0          17.0        148.0          16.4             11
Source:. Institute for Social Planning and Institute for Economic Development, Pristina.
1/ Based on population estimates of 1.58 million persons in 1980 and 1.97 million in 1990.
2/  Per Capita consumption in Kg oil equivalent,annual SAPK consuption in 000 tons seed, assuming averagp seed crusshing yield of 25%.
31  Per Capita consumption in Kg refined sugar equivalent,annual SAPK consumption in 000 tons stigarheets, assuming average extraction rate of 15%.                   o Z
4/  Per Capita consumption in liters, annual SAPK cbnsumption in Uuu liters.                                   



-62 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farmgate Prices For The Financial & Economic Analyses
FARM PRODUCTS (Per Kg)           Financial Price      Economic Price
(Dinar)              (Dinar)
Wheat (grain)                           14.0               10.6
(straw)                           2.0                 1.5
Barley (grain)                          11.0                8.3
(straw)                          2.5                 1.9
Maize (grain)                           13.0                5.2
(stover)                          3.0                 2.2
Sunflower                               20.5               15.9
Rapeseed                                20.5               15.9
Sugarbeet (beet)                         2.5                1.9
(sugarbeet tops)              0.5                0.4
Potatoes                                11.0                5.3
Peppers (paprika)                       11.5                8.2
Tomatoes                                 9.5                7.1
Cabbage                                  7.5                5.6
Beans                                   85.0               63.7
Apples (table quality) 2/               16.0               11.9
Apples (processing quality) 2/           8.0                6.0
Pears (table quality) 2/                13.0               12.9
Hazelnuts (in shells)                   90.0               67.5
Walnuts                                100.0               75.0
Strawberries                            31.0               23.2
Raspberries                             43.0               32.3
Cow Milk (per liter)                    15.0               11.25
Sheep Milk (per liter)                  24.0               23.0
Cattle (Liveweight)
- calves                               120.0               80.7
- young cattle (250 kg)                110.0               69.0
- mature cattle (450 kg)               100.0               62.7
- culled cows                           85.0               55.7
Sheep (Liveweight)
- lambs (4 months)                     120.0               84.4
- lambs (8 months)                     115.0               84.4
- ewes and rams                         92.0               64.7
- culled ewes and rams                  70.0               49.2
1/ Prices for commodities not internationally traded are adjusted by the
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF = 0.75).
2/ Table quality is expected to comprise about 60% of the apple and pear
harvests, processing quality about 40%.



-63 -                    ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 2
Pigs (Liveweight)
- piglets (12 kg)                           120.0           90.0
- fattened pigs (110 kg)                     80.0           60.0
- culled sows and boars                      70.0           52.5
Wool                                        150.0           125.1
Honey                                        95.0            71.3
Farm Inputs (per kg)
Fertilizers   NPK  7-22-14                   12.3           1!
14-14-14                  11.6           1/
10-20-30                  12.5          T/
10-30-20                  15.1          T/
10-10-10                   9.0           1/
8-16-24                  11.1           T/
14-13-09                   6.5           f/
15-15-15                  12.0          T/
KAN 27%                        7.0           T/
TSP 43%                        9.0           T/
MANURE                                        1.0            0.7
Chemicals (per liter)
Folidol Oil                                  81.0           60.8
Bayleton Special                            631.0          473.2
Sistemin                                    115.0           86.3
Orthocide                                   218.0          163.5
Phosphamid                                  133.0           99.8
Ultracid-40                                 344.0          258.0
Gramaxone                                   240.0          180.0
Dithene M-45                                129.0           96.8
Enovit M                                    565.0          423.8
Cimeb ES-5                                   16.0           12.0
Dimet                                        36.0           27.0
Etazin-3585                                 538.0          403.5
Ronit                                       438.0          328.5
Sevin                                        38.0           28.5
1/ Economic prices evaluated in terms of active substance as follows:
N    26.7 Dinar/kg
P    18.6 Dinar/kg
K    11.3 Dinar/kg



ANNEX 3
64 -              Table 4
Page 3
SEEDS
Wheat              - local                   13.0            9.8
- certified              19.0           14.3
Barley             - local                   18.0           13.5
- certified              25.0           18.8
Maize grain        - local                   29.0           21.8
- certified              50.0           37.5
Maize silage       - certified               68.0           51.0
Sunflower          - certified              21.0            15.8
Rapeseed           - certified               69.0           51.8
Sugarbeet          - certified             313.0          234.8
Alfalfa            - certified              275.0          206.3
Vetches            - certified               35.0           26.3
Oats               - certified               19.0           14.3
Meadow             - certified              175.0          131.3
Potatoes           - local                   25.0           18.8
- certified              38.0           28.5
Tomatoes           - certified             1875.0         1406.0
Peppers (Paprika  - certified              1250.0         937.5
Cabbage            - certified             1250.0         937.5
LIVESTOCK FEED
Concentrate for   - milking cow              16.0           12.0
- heifer                 15.8           11.9
- calf up to 3 months   15.6            11.7
- calf over 3 months    15.0            11.3
- sheep                  18.1           13.6
- sow and boar           13.8            10.4
- piglet to weaning      20.6           15.5
- piglet to fat          16.8           12.6
Hay                - alfalfa                  4.4            3.3
- meadow                  3.8            2.9
- vetches, oats           3.8            2.9
Straw              - wheat                    1.9            1.4
- barley                  2.5            1.9
Stover             - maize                    3.2            2.4
Maize              - silage                   1.9            1.4
Sugarbeet tops                               0.6            0.5
Cabbage leaves                               0.6             0.5
Legumes (grain)                              18.8           14.1
BAGS AND BOXES
Jute bags                                    50.0           37.5
Plastic boxes      - 20 to 25 kg            181.3          136.0
-  8 kg                  81.0           60.8
-  2 kg                  17.5           13.1



- 65 -                  ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 4
MECHANIZATION Hire Rates (per hour)
Tractor 40 h.p        - field crop          375.0          281.3
- fodder crop        425.0          318.8
- orchards           468.8          351.6
FARM WAGES (per hours)
Unskilled labor                              62.5           25.0-34-4 1/
Skilled labor                                75.0           56.3
l/ Adjusted by a labor conversion factor which is 0.40 in year one of
implementation increasing to 0.55 by year ten.



- 66 -                              3
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOsLAVIA
Table T-3 - Investment Models /1 - Yield and Production
Coefficient Assumptions
Without          With                  Pertilieer kg/ha 2/
Model                      Project          Project          Without Project  With Project
…---tone/ha----
1. Rain-fed crop farn
Wheat                                2.3                3.8               250                 450
Maize                                2.0               3.2                200                 400
Oilseed                              -                 2.3                300                 600
Potato                              10.0               15.0               400               1,300
Vegetables                          10.0              10.0                175                 800
Meadow                               3.5               8.0                  -                 450
Pasture                              0.5               0.5                200                 600
Alfalfa                              -                 -                    -
2. Irrigation rehabilitation
Maize and vegetables 3/              3.0                5.5               200                 600
Wheat                                2.2                3.6               250                 400
Barley                               2.5               3.6                180                400
Sugarbeet                           25.0              45.0                400              1,200
Sunflower                            -                 2.6                200                500
Tobacco                              1.8               3.0                  -
Vegetables                          15.0              20.0                275                 800
Alfalfa                              6.0              12.8                200                 600
Maize silage                         -                45.0                300                 500
3. Small-scale irrigation
Wheat                                2.3               3.8                250                 400
Maize                                2.5               3.2                200                  60
Oilseed                              1.8               2.3                200                 500
P.otto                              10.0               -                    -                   _
Vegetablea                          10.0               - °
Meadow                               3.5               8.0                  -                 750
Forage                               5.0              10.0                200                 600
4. Drainage and flood control sub-project
Maise and vegetables 3/              2.5               3.5                  -
Wheat                                2.5               4.0                  -
Sugarbeet                            -                35.0                  -
Qilseed                              -                 2.3                  -
Potatnes and vegetables             10.0              16.0                  -
M.eadow                              5.0               -
Forage                               -                 8.0                  -
5. Livestock
a. Dairy famn: 4 ha - 3-5 cows
- Calving rate                82%               85%
- Mortality rate - calves   6%                  5%
- Mortality rate - adiults  4%                  3%
- Culling rate - cows         192               18%
- Milk production -
row/year               1,200.1           3,200.1
- Cull cow - weight         340 kg            480 kg
- Cattle breed            Local             Friesian
- Concentrate feed -
cow/year                 500 kg            900 kg
- Maize silage                -                  0.6 ha
- Alfalfa                     0.3 ha            0.5 ha
- Improved meadow             0.2 ha             0.6 ha
b.  Sheep fans. 8.5 ha - 75 ewes
- Lahb weights - 4 inh       16 kg              20 kg
- 8 mth       25 kg             34 kg
- Lambing rate                90%               95%
- Lanbing ratio               100%              110%
- Mortality rate - lambs    12%                 6%
- Mortality rate -
adults                     5%               3%
- Culling rate - ewes         27%               29%
- Milk production -
ewe/year                  40               150 1
- Cull ewe - weight          36 kg              40 kg
- Wood production -
ewe/year                   1.4 kg             1.6 kg
- Sheep breed                 Local            Wuettemberg/local cross
- Concentrate feed -
ewe/year                  25 kg             40 kg
/I Details of models are given in FAO/World Sank draft preparation report 13/82 YUG. 18,
July 13, 1982. For appraisal purposes sodela indicated above were used; prices were
updated to June, 1982.
2/ Bulk meounts, of which active substance averages 34%
3/  Vegetables intercropped with mai.e.  Yields shown are for  Vaice.  Vegetable yields
are 502 nf yields for vegetables grows separately.
August, 1982.



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Suimmary Resujltq of the Financia.1 Analvses
Percentage change in Component Cost or Value                                    FRR for Indicated Change
Financial             Which wouild cauise FRR to be 12%                                       In Component Cost or Value
Rate of                            (Switch Over Values)                                                      Farm       Syctem One vear delay in
Returnr                                 Farm          System         Net                  Investment  Operating  Operating impleisentation &
(FRR) on               Investment   Operating    Operating  Operating   Benefits              Cost        Cost         Cost    invest. cost up
Base Case   Benefits    Cost            Cost           Cost         Margin      -10%          +10%        +10%         +10%        OX      +1I%
*        (z~~F/)      (Q)         Mz            (Z)()                      (%)          (7M          (%)           M )        ~(/)       -
Hill Sheep Farms/I                18.2          -8.9    +42.0            23.8           -        -14.5            11.3         16.2         15.4        -         12.A      11.7
Dairy Farms/!                     13.6          -2.5    +11.1            +5.5           -         -4.6             6.7         12.1         10.6        -          9.F       8.R
Orchards/1                        14.1          -7.4    +21.6           +17.2           -        -13.1            11.2         13.0         12.9        -         12.0      11.1
Rainfed Farms/!                   79.0         -12.1        n.a.        +29.0           -        -?0.8            20.9          n.a.       46.S         -         ?0.5      20.5
Small Scale Irrigation/I          23.9          -9.S   +17P.5           +19.?           -        -lq.?            11.4         ?2.4        17.S         -         IS*.7     14.5
Decane Irrigation System          18.6          -Q.R    +40.2            7. n       +666.0       -17.1            11.8         16.*        15.6        18.5      13.5       1?. '
Vitina Drainage System            16.6          -3.3    +26.s            +7.4         +94.9       -6.7             3.7         14.&         10.9       16.1        0.8 FA.A
I/ FRR and NPV analyses for on-farm costq and benefits onlv (rainfed farms involve nn-farm operating costs buit no on-farm  inveqtment cost').



Y GOSLAVIA
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Economic Border Price Structure for Tradeable
Input and Output Commodities
(1982 Constant Prices)
1995       International                                       Domestic
Projected   Transport &    Yugoslav  Yugoslav  Quality    Transport,   Domestic                    Physical    Farmgate
Indicator    Handling          Trade      Border   Adjustment Handling,&   Processing              Conversion  Border Price
Price 1/      Adiustment       Parity    Price       Factor      Losses 2/   & Packasing 2/         Ratio         Equivalent
C /           (US /ns                           on)   ()Sf/ton)    (USton)                             ()         (US$/ton) (Din/Kg)
WHEAT                  198          +17        Import        215        100           +15                                            230       10.6   Grain
MAIZE                  148          -20       Export         128        100           -15                                -           113        5.2   Grain
SUNFLOWER SEED         315 3/       +17        Import        332        100           +13             -                  -           345      15.9   Seed
SUGAR                  387 4/       -47       Export         340        100           -20           -24 4/              14 5/         41        1.9   Sugarbeet
BEEF                 2,704            -       Export       3,380 6/    125 6/        -102           +95 7/              52         1,754      80.7   Liveweight
LAMB                 3,830 8/          -      Export       3,830 8/     100          -102           +95 7/              48         1,835      84.4   Liveweight
COW's MILK, FRESH    290               -      Export         290        100           -35           -20                  -235                  108   Fresh Milk
SHEEP's CHEESE       3,980 9/      -105       Export       3,875        100           -58          -750                 16.7         512      23.0   Fresh Milk
WOOL, GREASY 49!   3,900               -       Import      3,900          70          +50              -                 -         2,780    125.1   Wool, Greasy
POTATOES               140             -      Export         140        100           -25              -                 -           115        5.3   Potatoes
GRAPES                 600             -       Export        600        100           -30              -                 -           570       26.2   Table Grapes               m
APPLES                 290             -       Export        290         100          -30              -                 -           260       11.9   Table apples
UREA, 46% N            286           -6       Export         280         100          -13              -                 -           267       12.3   50 Kg bags
46           580      26.7   Kg active (N)
TSP, 60% P205          203          +17        Import        220         100          +12           +10                  -           242       11.1   50 Kg bags
60           403       18.6   Kg active (P205)
KCL, 60% K             114          +13        Import        127         100          +10           +10                  -            147       6.8   50 Kg bags
60           245       11.3   Kg active (K)
USl = Din 46
1/ Indicative ports and commodity descriptions given on Table T-2, page 2.
2/ Domestic costs adjusted by the SCF = 0.75.                                                                                                                                    _3
3/ Derived in relation to projected indicator prices for soyabean oil and meal, assuming sunflower to soyabean price ratios of 0.99 and 0.74 for oil and  
meal, respectively, crushing margin of 10% and sunflower crushing yields of 0.35 for oil and 0.55 for meal.                                                                  m X
4/ World Market price is bulk rate.  Adjustment for farmgate price includes cost of collection and processing exclusive of packaging.                                           -'i ;
5/ Weighted average of extraction rates reported at the plant in Pec for sugar beets from Kosovo (15%) and from Macedonia (12.5%)
6/ Yugoslav export prices for beef (mainly bull calf, dressed carcass) in 1979 and 1980 averaged 25% above the respective World Bank indicator prices.
7/ Net processing value comprises the value of by-products (320 $/ton) less costs of slaughtering and export packing (225 $/ton), dressed carcass weight.
8/ Average of export prices F.O.B. Hungary, Yugoslavia, and Bulgaria (70% lamb and 30% mutton, dressed carcass, 1980), adjusted for price escalation and
increased in relation to the World Bank projection for Beef price in 1995.
9/ Export price (1981) C.I.F. France for cheese, adjusted for price escalation.
10/Merino Wool, greasy, C.I.F. Yugoslavia.  Local wool quality is valued at about 70% of Merino wool quality.



- 69 -
APPRAISAL OF                             ANNEX 3
Table 8
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
World Market Indicator Prices
(1982 Constant Dollars)
Commodity                                   1982             1990
and Indicative Port                          (1982 US$/mton) (1982 US$/mton)
WHEAT, CWRS (FOB Thunder Bay Canada) 1/                 180              198
MAIZE, U.S. No. 2 Yellow (FOB U.S. Gulf) 1/             116              148
SOYABEAN Oil, Crude (FOB Holland) 1/                   480              672
SOYABEAN Meal (C.I.F. Rotter/am) 17                    240              291
SUGAR, ISA (FOB Carribean) 1                           250              387
BEEF, frozen (Argentine, Australia) 1/                2402             2704
LAMB, dressed carcass (FOB Eastern Europe)4/          3404             3830
UREA, 46% N, bagged (FOB Europe) A/                    246               286
TSP, 60% P205 (FOB US Gulf) 1/                          160              203
POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, 60% K  (FOB Vancouver) 1,           90               114
POTATOS (FOB) 2/                                        140              140
GRAPES (FOB) 2/                                        600              600
APPLES (FOB) 2/                                        270               290
BEEF (FOB) 2/                                         2860             2900
LAMB (FOB) 2/                                         3900
COW'S MILK (Fresh) (FOB) 3/                            290              290
WHITE CHEESE (FOB) 2/                                 2800             2800
WOOL, GREASY (CIF) 2/                                 3900             3900
1/ World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department, July 1982.
21 Statistics of Foreign Trade of the SFR Yugoslavia, published in 1981;
three year average, 1978-1980 prices.
3/ FAO Trade Yearbook, published in 1981, three year average, 1978-1980.
4/ Carcass equivalent with bone, 70% lamb and 30% mutton. Average of prices
FOB Hungary, Yugoslavia, and Bulgaria. 1990 price projected in relation
to World Bank indicator price for beef.



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY ECONOMIC RESULTS BY COMPONENT
(MILLION DINAR)
1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8       9       10       11       12       13       14       15       16       17       18        19      20
NET FARM BENEFITS:
HILLSHEEP FARMS               -28      -93    -160    -159         15       90      102       99       99       99      99       99       99       99        99       99       99       99       99       99
DAIRY FARMS                    -79    -136    -158    -164         57       72       87       91       91       91       91       90       90      90        90       89       89       89       89       89
RAINFED FARMS                 -33       37      211      386      605      89B    1052    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056    1056
SMALL SCALE IRRIG. FARM         -8     -17      -24      -14        9       Il       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16
DECANE IRRIGATION SYSTE          0     -47      -48       25       60       76       92      106      115      120     120      120      120      120      120      120       120      120      120      120
VITINA DRAINAGE SYSTEM           0       -6        4      10       12       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15
ORCHARDS                      -59      -99    -133    -142        -72      -36        5       54       97      119     143      166      174      178       178     178       178      178      178      178
TOTAL                     -207    -361    -309        -57      686    1132    1368    1437    1489    1516    1539    1561    1569    1573    1573    1573    1573    1573    1573    1573
PROJECT COST STREAMS
RURAL ROADS                    97      260      266      199      140        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2
AGRI-SERVICE CENTERS           47       60       54       55       53        2        2        2        2        2        2       2        2         2        2        2        2        2        2        2
DECANE IRRIG. SYSTEM            40      326     393       46        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6
VITINA DRAINAGE SYSTEM           2      28       37        4        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3
RADIO EXTENSION SYSTEM          35        2        2       2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2
LAND CONSOLIDATION             45      431       26       10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
ECONOMIC INSTITUTE               2       1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1
COOPERATIVE FEDERATION          20       18        9       8        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7        7
KOSOYSKA BANKA                 21       14       12       12       14       14       14       14       14       14       14      14       14        14       14       14       14       14       14       14
FARM MACHINERY                  16       16       16       16       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL                      326    1156       816      352      226       37       37       37       37      37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37        37
NET PROJECT BENEFITS          -532   -1517   -1124    -410         461    1095    1332    1400    1452    1479    1503    1525    1532    1537              1536    1536    1536    1536    1536    1536
014
tD e
%o w
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0Z = 3019707185.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   22.9%



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Suwmary Results of the Economic Sensitivity Analyses
Percentage change in Component Cost or Value                             ERR for Indicated Change
Economic   Net              which would cause ERR to be 12%                                  In Component Cost or Value
Rate of   Present                        (Switch Over Values)                                           Farm        System  One year delay in
Return    (NPV) at                              Farm      System      Net                Investment Operating Operating Implementation f,
(ERR) on  12% on                 Investment Operating Operating Operating   Benefits  Costs           Cost         Cost  Investent Costs up
Base Case Base Case   Benefits    Cost         Cost       Cost      Margin        -10%      +10%      +10%          +10%       0%       10%
(%)     (000 Din)      (1)        (%)         (x)       (X)         (X)        (%)        (Z)         (%)         (%)
Hill Sheep Farms 1,           15.5      72,239      -5.5       +24.4       +10.4       -         -11.5       8.9       13.9       12.1            -      11.8      10.7
Dairy Farmal/                 11.6    -25,136       +0.6        -2.6        +0.9       -          +1.7       4.8       10.1        7.4            -       9.3       8.2
Orchards m2                   13.5      31,496      -4.9       +15.5        +9.7       -          -9.7      10.3       12.5       12.0            -      11.5      10.6
Rainfed Farms!!               51.2  3,747,000    -17.2           n.a.       32.5       -         -36.5      27.1        n.a.      37.0            -      27.4      27.4
Small Scale Irrigationl/    18.1        21,429      -4.7       +57.3        +6.6       -         -16.5       4.5       16.8        8.8                   13.3      12.4
Decane Irrigation System    11.9        -2,600       1.3        -7.1        -0.6    -18.6         +0.7       7.2       10.5        9.3           11.8    9.6        8.5
Vitina Drainage System        16.1       3,696      -3.3       +26.2        +7.1    +94.4         -6.5       3.5       14.4       10.4           15.7    9.5        8.5
Project Whole  2/             23.5  3,176,800    -11.1          95.1       +20.4   +133.6        -24.6      13.1       21.6       17.8           23.4   16.5       16.0
/1 -  ERR and NPV analyses for on-farm costs and benefits only (rainfed farms involve on-farm operating costs hut no on-farm investment costs).
/2 Rainfed  farms component includes full allocation of investment and operating costs for the (I) agri-service centers, (2) radio, (3) rural roads, (4) farm
machinery having PV of sensitivity tests relate only to on-farm henefits and operating costs.
/3    ERR and NPV for the project whole after taking into account the project costs of common elements (roads, agri-service centers, etc., with NPV amounting
to Dinar -1592 million) which are not incorporated in the farm analyses.
o z
o >:



- 72 -                                ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table  1
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Socio-Economic Indicators (1980)
SAPK
SFRY              SAPK            % of SFRJ
Land ('000 ha)
Total Area                          25,580             1,089                 4
Agricultural Land                   14,371               589                 4
Arable Land                          7,153               304                 4
Grains                               4,324               226                 5
Industrial Crops                       439                13                 3
Vegetables                             642                22                 3
Forage Crops                           946                34                 3
Orchards                               484                11                 4
Vineyards                               226                8                 4
Meadows                              2,055                76                 4
Pastures                             4,346               188                11
Forest                              10,300               445                 4
Demography
Total Population, 1981 ('000)       22,354             1,585                 7
No. of Households ('000)             6,209               230                 4
Average Household Size                  3.6              6.9               192
Population Density Per km2               87              145               167
Agriculture Population ('000)        7,844               641                 8
Agriculture Population as %
of Total                              29                43                 -
Employment
Total Labor Force ('000)             9,500               433                 5
Agriculture Labor Force              4,208               183                 4
No. of Individual Farmers            2,600               108                 4
Livestock
Cattle                               5,474               398                 7
Horses                                  199                7                 4
Sheep                                7,384               352                 5
Pigs                                 7,867                55                  1
Poultry                             65,690             2,117                 3
Economic
GIIP (MI. Dinar)
Per Capita GMP                      16,801             4,738
Agriculture Share of GNP %.              13               20
Agriculture Share of Export %            18               14
Investment in Agriculture as %
of Total                               6                 6
Source:  Statistical Yearbook, 1981



- 73 -
APPRAISAL OF                                Table 12
KuSOVU tntGIuNAL DEVELOPMENT PROJICT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agricultural Production Indicators (1980)
SAPK as
SFRJ                SAPK            % of SFRJ
Crop Production ('000)
Maize                               9,317                 184                2
Wheat                               5,019                 216                4
Potato                              2,440                  61                3
Sugar Beet                          5,213                  35                1
Grape                               1,573                  56                4
Apples                                483                  20                4
Livestock Production
cow Milk (Mil. liters)              4,211                 205                5
Beef ('000 tons)                      351                  11                3,
Pork ('000 tons)                      738                   6                 1
Poultry ('000 tons)                   276                   7                3
Eggs (Mil.)                         4,393                 157                4
Mutton ('000 tons)                     58                   4                7
Crop Yields
Maize (ton/ha)                          4.2                 1.8             43
Wheat (ton/ha)                          3.4                 2.5             74
Sugar Beet (ton/ha)                    41                  22               54
Potato (ton/ha)                         8.4                 7.2             86
Apples (kg/tree)                        2.1                19               90
Grapes (kg/vine)                        1.2                 1.9            158
Livestock Yields
Milk/cow/kg                         1,576               1,203               76
Wool/sheep/kg                           1.5                 1.4             93
Eggs/hen                              126                 103               82
Fertilizer /1
Total Consumption ('000 tons)       2,131                 101                5
Agricultural Land kg/ha               148                 171              116
Arable Land kg/ha-                    298                 332              111
/1 Gross fertilizer; estimate average 39% NPK active ingredient.
Source: Statistical Yearbook, 1981



- 74 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 13
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Land Use
SAP Kosovo                Project Area
is       SS         Total      IS       SS      Total
… -   -   -   -   --o…o- - - --000
Annual crops                 270      34          304     142       18        160
Orchards and vineyards          7     13           20       7       13        20
Meadows                        71      5           76      32        2        34
Pastures                      40    148           188      17       65        82
Forests                       160    285          445      96       85       181
Barren                         12     45           57       5       15        20
Total - '000 ha              566    524          1090     299      198       497
-%                      52     48          100       60      40        100
Source: Statistical Yearbook



- 75 -                                    ANNEX 3
"  -                                      Table 14
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agricultural Sector Performance 1979-1980
Annual Growth Ra             -
1970-1980        1970-1975         1975-1980
SFRJ      SAPK     SFRJ    SAPK    SFRJ        SAPK
Total sector                  2.5       3.3     2.8      6.0      2.2       1.0
Maize                         3.0      (2.6)    6.2    (1.0)   (0.1)    (4.2)
Wheat                         2.8       0.7     3.0      4.9      2.7      (3.3)
Sugar beet                   5.9      (4.6)    7.5    (0.4)    4.3         (8.6)
Grapes                        3.6      3.4    (1.3)    1.5        8.9       5.6
Apples                        5.7       4.4      6.0    (7.1)    5.5       17.3
Sour cherries                4.1      11.6      1.9      5.3      6.3      18.3
Cow milk                      5.4     11.5      7.3    17.4       3.5       5.9
Beef                         3.7       8.2      7.1    17.1       0.5       0
Poultry                       6.9       8.8     5.8      5.9      8.0      11.8



- 76 -                                    ANNE2 4
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DZVELOPKLMNT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Kosovska Banka - Consolidated Balance Sheets - 1979-1981
(Din Million)
Avg.
Annual
Assets                                                           1979     1980    1981 1/ Growth
Cash and due from banks                                      1,394    1,691   1,688        10
Deposits with National Bank                                  1,111    1,240   1,245         6
Securities and discounted bills                              1,173    1,430   2,055        33
3,678    4,361   4,988        17
Short-term loans up to one year and
current maturities of long term loans                     13,632   16,608  21,594        26
Accrued interest and other assets                            2,932    5,448  10,316        87
20,242   26,417  36,898        35
Long term loans and investments over one
year less current maturities                              36,310   53,678  75,618        44
Property and equipment                                         470       635      767      28
Deferred foreign exchange losses                               223       442      163     (16)
Total Assets                                                57,245   81,172 113,446         t
Liabilities and Funds Employed
Demand deposits                                              8,455   11,681  14,255        30
Savings and short term deposits up to one year               2,988    4,911   5,105        31
Short term borrowings and current maturities of
long-term borrowings                                       3,033    4,370   9,387        76
Accrued interest and other liabilities                         961    1,240   4,940       126
15,437   22,202  33,687        48
Savings and long-term deposits over one year                 6,084    8,373  10,315        30
Long-term borrowings less current maturities                32,228   45,757  63,900        41
53,749   76,332 107,902        T
Funds Employed
Property and equipment fund                                    618       725      946      24
Reserve Fund                                                   489       537      570        8
Joint liability fund                                           801       863      911       7
Funds of Banks working communities                              75        91        -       -
1,983    2,216   2,427        11
Unappropriated income not allocated                          1,513    2,624   3,117        44
Total Liabilities and Funds Employed                        57,245   81,172 113,446        41
Funds managed on behalf of legal entities and citizens   4,538    7,636   7883             32
I=5555   ===c== 55s===         ==
1/ Draft accounts only.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                                Table 2
iROSOVO aEGIONAL DEVELOP1'ENT PBOJECT
Yjc;OSLA'TTA
KBP .ey Financial Ratios and Grcwth Indicators
1979       1980       1981
(Dinar millions)
Balance Sheet Ratios
Total Assets                              57,245    51,172   113,446
X Increase                               37         42         40
Short Term Assets                        20,242    26,417    36,898
% Increase                               28         31         40
Demand Deposits                           8,455    11,681    14,255
x Increase                               36         38         22
% Total Deposits                         48         47         48
Savings and Deposits (short-term          9,072    13,284    15,420
and long-term)
% Increase                               57         46         16
Total Deposits & Savings                 17,527    24,965    29,675
Z Increase                               17         42         19
Short Term Liabilities                   15,437    22,202    33,687
% Increase                               33         44         52
Long Term Borrowing                      32,228    45,757    63,900
% Increase                               33         42         40
Z Total Borrowing                        92         91         87
Long Term Loans                          36,310    53,678    75,618
% Increase                               42         48         41
% Total Loan PortFolio                   73         76         78
Capital to Assets Ratio 1/
Net worth                               3,496      4,840      5,544
Total assets                           57,245    81,172   113,446
Ratio                                   6.1        6.0        4.9
Banking Assets Structure Ratio 2/
Short Term Risk Assets                 17,310    20,969    26,582
Total Banking Assets                   56,552    80,095   112,516
Ratio                                    31         26         24
Current Ratio 3/
Short Term Liabilities                 14,476    20,962    28,747
Short Term Risk Assets                 17,310    20,969    26,582
Funds Borrowed short and lent long  (2,834)             -     2,165
Ratio                                    N/A           -       7.5
Deposit Run - Off Ratio 4/
Cash and due from Banks                 1,394      1,691      1,688
Short Term deposits and borrowing   14,476    20,962    28,747
Less: Deposits with National Bank    1,111         1,240      1,245
-13,165    19,7227   27,0
Ratio                                    10.4        8.6        6.1
1/ Capital to Assets : expresses a bank's net worth as a percentage of
of total assets.  It is a rough measure of the cushion to creditors which
is provided by a bank's net worth, or the extent of losses expressed as a
percentage of assets which a bank could absorb without being technically insolvent.
2/ Banking Assets Structure Ratio: compares short term risk assets (i.e.,
cash and deposits with other banks, statutory deposits and short term loans)
with total banking assets. This measure indicates the composition of
total banking assets in terms of length of maturities, using the arbitrary
division between short and long term assets for classification purposes.
3/ Current Ratio: compares short term liabilities with short term risk assets,
and expresses the size of the difference as a percentage of short term
liabilities. This difference represents funds which the bank borrows on a
short term basis and uses for some purpose other than short term lending.
These funds are in effect borrowed short and loaned long, which is an
important function of financial intermediation by commercial banks. However,
this activity involves the risk of illiquidity, and the ratio is a very rough
indicator of the extent of this risk.
4/ Deposit Run-Off Ratio: indicates the percentage by which a decline in deposits
could be met from a bank's holdings of cash, its accounts with other banks,
and by the release of statutory reserves occasioned by the decline in
deposits. This ratio is an indication of bank's liquidity.



- 78 -                              ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                             Table 3
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEV1ELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Kosovoska Bank - Statement of Income and Expenses 1979-1981
(Dinars Million)
Income
Ave.
Annual
1979    1980      1981 1/  Growth
Interest on loans                           2,958   3,540    4,042          17
Interest on Bank deposits                               71       648       812
Fees, Commissions and Charges                  44       41        33       (14)
Foreign Exchange Gains                        421       84       293       (17)
Other                                          51       34       340       158
3,474   3,770    5,356         25
Expenses
Interest on deposits and
borrowings                                1,427   1,635    3,687          61
Operating expenses                            321      430       640        41
Foreign exchange losses                       591      239       311       (28)
Provisions for doubtful debts                   8       12         -         -
Statutory obligations                          16       17        30        37
2,363   2,333    4,668
Net Income                                       1,111   1,437       688       (21)
Appropriation of Net Income
Proposed distribution to members              214      298       195
Unappropriated income-interest
not collected                               873   1,111        493
Allocation to funds of Bank's
working communities                          24       28         -
1,111   1,437       688
1/ Draft accounts only.



-79--                                       ANNEX 4
Tabl~
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA   .-
Kosovoska Banka Loan Portfolio Analysis - 1979-81
Ave.
Annual
1979    z     1980    Z       1981    2   Growth
Short-Term Loans                                     (Minar million.)      _                      S
Consumer loans up to one year                       19    -       126    -        41    -      47
Loan to enterprises                              6,556   13    9,633   14    13,257   14       42
Loans to Banks                                   2,783    6    1,151    2        872    1    (44)
Loans to local authorities and other               154    -       161    -       152    -       -
organizations
Doubtful loans                                      59    -       122    -       300    -    125
Less: provision for possible loan losses            (2)   -       (2)    -       (2)    -       _
9,56 9    91  11,191   16    14,620   15      24
Add: Current maturities of long-term loans       4,063    8      5417    8     6,974    7      31
13,632   27   16,608   24    21,594   22       26
Long Ters Loans
Conuser loans ovar one year                        612    1      787    1        745    1      11
L-oans to enterprises for capital investments  26,131   53   39,401   57    59,380   61        51
Loans to enterprises for other purposes          9,703   20   12,613   18    14,469   15       22
Loans to Banks                                     316    1      525    1        618    1      40
Loans to local authorities and other org.          236    -      229    -        256            4
Loans for housing and commercial construction  3 071    6       5161    7       6606    7      48
'46 069  lrr  Tg-,7-i9  Vf    82,074   8S      43
Less: Current maturities                         4,063    8   5,417    8        6974    7    31
36,006   73   53,299   76    75,100   78       44
Total loan portfolio                              49,638  100   69,907  100    96,694  100       40
_ h_ . | .ini                  mm



- 80 -                                ANNEX 4
APPIAISAL OF                              Table 5
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Kosovoska Banka - Sources and Uses of Funds - 1979-81
(Din Million)
1979    1980    1981
Sources of Funds
Operations
Net Income                                 1,111   1,437       688
Depreciation                                  17       24       25
1,128   1,461      713
Increase (Decrease) in Liabilities
Demand deposits                            2,221   3,226   2,574
Savings & short term deposits                737   1,923       194
Accrued interest and other
liabilities                                151      279   3,700
Savings & long-term deposits               2,577   2,289   1,942
Borrowings                                 8,774  14,866  23,160
New Funds Invested                           145      151      130
15,733  24,195  32,413
Uses of Funds
Increase (Decreases) in Assets
Cash & due from Banks                         53      297       (3)
Deposits with national bank                  (82)    129         5
Securities & discounted bills                (27)    257      625
Short-term loans                           3,677   2,976   4,986
Accrued interest and other
assets                                   1,060   2,516   4,901
Deferred foreign exchange losses               -      219    (279)
Long term loans                           10,525  17,293  21,801
Long term investments                        268       75      182
Additions to property                         28      118      -
Proposed distribution                        214      298      195
Funds withdrawn by member                      5        5     -
Charges for workers amenities                 12       12     -
15,733  24,195  32,413



- 81 -
APPRAISAL OF                                               ANNEX 4
KOSOVo REGIONAL vViLOP1* NT PROJECT                                     Table 6
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVOSKA BANK - ANALYSIS OF LOAN APPROVALS FOR AGRICULTURE AND
AGRO INDUSTRY BY NUMBER AND AMOUNT 1979-1981
Ave.
1979                        1980                        1981                Annual
Number      Amount   Z    Number    Amount   %    Number           Amount   %    Growth
(A)  Social Sector                                 Din.Mil                    Oin.Mil                     Din.Mil
Agro Industry                    20          653      57      28         576    36       31         3699    59       138
Irrigation                        3           19       2       1          13      1      3          1491    24      786
Vineyard                          4           34       3      14         521    33       10          776    12       378
Dairy                             2           35       3       2          75      5      12          171      3      121
Broilers                          2          232      20      -            -      -       -            -      -        -
Sheep                             -            -       -       1          77      5                           -        -
Mechanization                     16          73       6      23         210    13       24          135      2       36
Other                              7         105       9      31         114      7       -            -      -        -
-5-4     -1 5T1    100    TG0         1586   100       80         6272   100       T33
Percent of Total Loan Approvals                  79                                                      8970    -
(B) Individual Sector
Dairy                              9         140      45       5          74    11       12           61      8      (34)
Sheep                             -            -       -       3          31      5      8            96    12      210
Broilers                          2           51      16      -            -      -       7          236    30       115
Mechanization                      5          42      13      16          64    10       13           94    12        50
Vineyards                          1          11       4       6         239    35        1            2      -      (57)
Other                            14           68      22     44          265    39      56           305    38       112
31         312    T00    7i4           -67-3  10-0   -99           79-4  i0-0    -59
Percent of Total Loan Approvals  -               21            -                                        -Tr
Total                                     85         1463            174         2259           179          7066             120
Sources of Financing
Federal funds                                983     68                1449      64                3411      48       86
IBRD                                        149      10                235      10                1448       21     212
Foreign commercial credits                   101       7                170       8                  74       1     (29)
Domestic commercial credits                   93       6                117       5                  97       1        2
Investor equity                               94       6                163      7                  228       3       56
Pooled funds                                   -       -                  -       -                1626      23        -
Other                                         45       3                126       6                 183       3      102
1463    Th0               2259      100                7066    -00



- 82 -
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
ANNEX 4
Chart I
Kosovska Banka, Pristina, Organization Chart
n                       U.n.1                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Funds, Pl.n  Lega AfWa- nd                     AcnMig                    Onelpren
R.I.b..  ~ ~ ~ ~~~Pbli Reintins                 G.ne...I Actmiwbnisrn                n Copters
Auetblo 10  n  obec                              1G
F.,.ign                                                                                               F- ua  o  gn u a  *
H~~~~~~                               00
3                                         >
Woodd Bomk 24127



>c 4
X h
m00 - K-Xi
, Ii, , . . _."
LP~~~~~~~
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
...........  ............   .....



- 84 -
- 84   -                                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~ANNEX  5
Char t 2
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kosovo Hydroeconomy Institutional Organization
|KOSOVO IIANAGEMENT FOR WATER ECONOMY1
C.mpl.  |gn~to                                                                    Self managemen t 
Federation ol                                                                    of Associated Labour   *                                                                Assmiat os for
Cooperatives                                                                            SOUR                                                                                   SIZ
Organizations of   Assoiated Labour - OUR
snb          [        Beli Dri,,                  risti,a                                         Gniiane                   Priz...                   Bi;trica
Pristina                Gnjilane                  Metohija                 Decane
Podujevo                Vitina                   Prizren                   Dakovica
Pec                              Vucitrn                  Kos. Kamenica            Orahovac
Kli-a                             Glogovac                                          Suva Reka
Lipolan                                          Dragas
Orasecac
.   [                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reg aioa
b   Cooperatives                                                                                                                              Self-managemer n
Wrelt Asciations
World Bank-24113



ANNEX 5
Chart 3
- 85 -
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO: REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Improvements
3700         .                        6000 mm                     ,3700
11000
-1500-        -2200                             4000mm                                 2200    -1500_
gravel pavement 2 50 mm       ..
Typical Cross Section. Flat or Rolling Topography
World 13ank-24147



ANNEX 5
-86-                                                               Chart 4
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO: REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Improvements
6000
9100                                     400025                          1       1000            I(=     ;
200                300
30030
Typical Cross Section: Hilly or Mountainous Topography
World Bank-24146



- 87 -
Anru 6
APPJaAL Cr
YZ FaL                      P r
YUGISAVIA
Selectd  ndicatorn for Monitoring and Evalurtinq Project  nts
Prol.ct nopnnt                                    Mior Ciectivs_                                                    Ke  tnoctrs
1     xcane Irrigation Sb-poject            -irow  reliability of water sply to abut 1200 smal  farmrs             -  opletion detailed agi ring desigs
- prov     irrigatimo  watr aequate for around 4000 ha                - peparatiol bid douents. callIng rder, evaluation buds,
- icrease agricultural producito  and _11 fmr ix_                       <stic   of oatract
- struqtlw  ssnat cability of  Rnm                                    - catructimo of wuir, hr of  nduit installation, hk of
rofd  mplted
- toal aut  of systr, cost by ha, b ficiary, and is3 ater
delied
r      of beeficiaries using water
- dusgas in crgping pattern, crop yields, aid famer inws
- 3  ater delivered;  s actual irrigation by ronth
- gt of wtar to beneficiary
- at crcery by SXM
-  atia  of minteane                        3
-  pratung costs par ha irrigated and per  3 witer delivered
- EM staff ng
2. Vitmna Drainage and Erosim
Control Sub-project                    - inprove land use capab.ility in the sub-proje t ar..                0-pl*tico of detailed anginering degiges
- proote land  naolidation                                              p fparaticn of bid dooumnts, calling rendera, evaluating bids,
- inreae agricultural production and d      D c ing patterna            copleti   of ttract
towards higher value cr                                             - km of surface draiN  installed and denasity per ha
-  ee frer                                                            - u of su-surface drains snatalled and density per ha
- ctrol soil ercrasm and river flos                                   -  rva, of land besefitting
- clete larid  solidation of individual laid htldiux                  - ot per he cf drain by type
-total ow per hactare and per beneificiary
-hds.m in ccroppng patter and agricultural productuu
- r.-a  opration and maintenance auts total, per ha and per
- status of auntewe
- cot rosery by Ag-ava
- mlation of cadastral survey - before and after
- nubr of holding. and area onsolidated and n-rbar of parcels
before and after
- ha of roe   ostrnuted
-   t of land onsolidation pogr including surveying by
hetare aid beaeficiary
3. Cn-Farm   veste,t                        - ip        agricultural production and famer inc                      - nubr of borrowars by loan s, type of loan, new loan, and
reptar loans
- mer of borrowers by fair size
- loan   osng ti  - farr thorcgh Basic Bank, XBP, and back
to farmer
- chan in agricultural and livetok Protucton dad real faos
incom
- diwiges in lor iets by famdly and other
4. Veterinary Services                       - ige  arol health orntrol and livestock pioation                     - unit cost of building ostruction and rehabilitation
-  aul nru     of vainations by type
V- prot.ge coverag of livetock popnulatiozn
- nuer of auiml treatmets bY  jor typn
- mr  of unsaratucs anmually
- cdhnges in brnd population
-   rn   of oeratioal stations, pests, and Al shelters
- nu r of vaterinaria  and vet tedrarcans by sr:
- ratio of vets and vet tdrucians to ani-l pgulation and nsrs
of fat     hamvehlda
5    tnson Services                          - i-  agricultural Production ad fa         i           nw -  -  nr of SW. ad Ea  by see. ratio to nv r of farm hoeaolds,
- incram  far    coserap by aitensian  maieZ                            cultivable lad, and agricultural land
- icms n r of fal e  extin agents                                     - anal and mnthly   r   of farm visita to new ard rp_eatar fara,
- Ui     staff training                                                 total nd by each 
- c-         in crpping pa  , agricultural ad li2ve  k  prcduticss, ad
real inc    by fazs, pr cWuta, and pr ha
- training n-days aurally by SE and ER
- anual nunrr farmer field days and training das by type
- arnuel operating Oat includng salary and adinstrative overhed by
ER (inclidng SE).
- fertilizer use per Os by type of crop
- chares in anmal prcsdution coefficients
6. Cerative Agri-Service Cnter.             - irove farmer acces to iruts and markets                              - nur of centers, depots, and Pest ozrtructed or rehabilitated
and DOtY                                 - rede grain storage lses                                               and unut coat
- ratio of orative faclitu   to farm housholds and cultivable
land
-arsenal coher of Sa   iput sold by type and value
- anl volue of sin products recved by type and unit value
7.  Short T5en  Fertilizer Credit           - ice    agricultural prdctior                                         - anul fetilizer coneumpti  by Province, Casmune project area,
aris of cultivable land
S. Lad Ciisoludation                          promote ossoludation of fa   holdings                               - number of land onsolidatcon   sisres forned
- area of land by sector, and number of fare famuilies pre and pest
Csnsolidation surveyed
- '=bt of hold,nge consolidated
-changes i n raer of fragments
- omt per ha of land  ronsolidate  by pha   e.g. pre-srvey, pest
survey, toundary and road clearing, nsew coed coet, land MprFrQ-
sent, compensation, etc.
- changes n agricultural prodUcti0o
9. Radio                                    - iproved  -ass radia estension and information pwgr                   - attitude survey results
for individual farners                                             - number and tuning of fare radio progrss
- ranw s.,ple ,easuring of individual fairer resp-se
1)1. Mral  ed Improvemnt                     -    re farmer  acs to earketa and services ad to                      - chage i  Lrit ad prouct tonnage
individual farn holdinge                                            - change in n'alue of private lands attributable to rural roeds
- shortos nsrketng tiue for perishables, espially  sul,               - change in type of vehicles (horre/cart to bes and Cars)
vegetables, and fruits
- inpre accss for e-tensiom workers to project arms
and v-llapo
- shorten tice for villager access to health cliics
11. MLk Collection Centers                   - reo    access to cooled   lk storage                                 - redurcton  n spoilage
- re    losses due to spoilage                                        - change in fluid ilk sarketed n liters
- change in ratio of cheese to fluid nilk narketed                    - number of ndividual s'pplles
- seasonal dstruthiso  of supply by oenter



- 88 -                                       ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
A. Selected Reports on Kosovo and the Agricultural Sector
A-1 'Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo Rural Sector Study, World
Bank Report 2332a-YU, March 7, 1979.
A-2 'Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives' (3
volumes), World Bank Report 3954-YU, May 27, 1982.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1 'Kosovo Regional Development Project Identification Report',
FAO/World Bank Report No. 57/80 YUG 16, December 22, 1980.
B-2 'Feasibility Study - Hydro-System Decane', Kosovo Project Consultants
Report, 1982.
B-3 'Feasibility Study - Drainage of Vitina Area', Cerni Institute
Consultants Report, 1982.
B-4  'Draft Annex Outline', FAO/World Bank Report W.P. 1/81, January 15,
1981.
B-5  'Draft Preparation Report', FAO/World Bank Report (2 volumes) 13/82
YUG 18, July 13, 1982.
B-6 'Land Consolidation and its Importance to Modern Agricultural
Production in SAP Kosovo', Baskim Kabasi and Dusan Filipovic, 1982.
B-7 Social Plan of Kosovo for 1981-85
C. Appraisal Working Paper
C-1 Details of Project Investment Costs
C-2 Economic Analysis - Prices and Background Data
C-3 Marketing
C-4 Kosovska Banka, Pristina
C-5 Rural Communications
C-6 Irrigation and Drainage Sub-projects



- 89 -
Annex 7
Page 2
C-7   AgrLcultural Extension
C-8   FertilLzer
C-9   Land Tenure
C-10 Rural Roads
C-l1 Milk Collection Centers
C-12 Agri-service Centers
C-13 Regional Development in Kosovo



IBRD 16606
AUSTRIA    /                       /                                            21-C0                                      2130                SEPTEMBER 1982
~-,   .~ ~1\  HJNGARY                                                     2 TnRs                                     21230
'TALYS.O 5                                         cVEN,A  rne  *<,,o Be                          a
Z-A~~~  A ~~~' ~~~   \ ~ROMANIA         ~         ,  -1111
X   \  ,-1F*  OVINA\                                     \
R-  5    E R    f f   r                         z                 t   fGEC- 
MAONTEN<EGRO   Ž                                               \t uLtn      01Oaiv
De/ ani                     Vo 'o           Kiev                          Loplgq rz < ie eol e   \                                       ..
<    .rannovik  ^  S  \  >      B   ;       /                     \       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D.Kormil jane
02 CE                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43000-
_________Secor dor  ods
{.   :         rahovac;        5          <    {:)   ~~~<           \                KloT to
>~~~ ~~~                                   -.----------. 7rz  k soyJ i        s\ 
Rt            Bs sr     z     v                   M itclrok                      
urO Ova <Ao                                         o OCE evondor
PEC                                               I IE erno\ noI bonoar
Polje.-\    1                                2         3         40
-42'30                                                   a                                                          A S OJ                                   20'
r  )  KOSOVO  REGIONAL DEVE~~~~~~~~KLOPMENTS
sr z                                                                                    3
i                    Cl     Cai             ganov way              noa
._ ._.. Republic boundurnkovi
2'~~ ~ ~                                                                                   0        15         25235                             0
,                                                           KILOMETERSG   SL   AV      A
20s30~ ~~OSV   REIOA    DEVELOPMENT



