Document of
The World Bank                              E  CO P
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3575-Y
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$79.0 MILLION
TO
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA, PRISTINA (KBP)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 22, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY-EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit - Dinar (Din)
Currency'Unit 1/          Calendar 1982 2/    April 22,: 1983 3/
Us$1                     Dinar 51.32         Dinar 79.66
Dinar 1                  US$0.019            US$0.014
Dinar 1,000,000          US$19,485.58        US$13,650.01
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Glossary.-of Abbreviations
ACO                 = Agricultural Credit Officer
BCO                 = Basic Cooperative Organization
BOAL                = Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CCC                 = Commune Coordinating Committee
COAL                = Composite Organization of Associated Labor
FAO/WB              = Food and Agricultural Organization of the
United Nations/World Bank
FC                  = Federation of Cooperatives
ICB                 = International Competitive Bidding
IED                 = Institute of Economic Development
KBP                 = Kosovska Banka, Pristina
OA                  = Organization of Agriculturalists
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. It was
devalued by 20% against the US Dollar effective October 22, 1982. The
currency equivalents effective on June 30, 1982 have been used for
project analysis. For cost estimates, unit costs are based on June 1982
Dinar estimates and have been updated to December 1982, reflecting the
effects of the October 1982 devaluation and international price
escalation.
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins
since July 12, 1973. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure
maintenance of external competitiveness.
2/  Period average.
3/  End of period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
Kosovo Regional Development Project
Loan-and ProjeSctSummary
Borrower:                  Udruzena Kosovska Banka, Pristina (KBP).
Guarantor;                 Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:             Federation of Cooperatives, Pristina, and the
twelve lowest income communes in Kosovo province.
Amount:                    US$79.O million equivalent in various currencies,
including capitalized front-end fee of $Q.588
million and interest on loan during construction
of $9.4 million.
Terms:                     Amortization over 15 years, including three years
grace at the standard variable interest rate.
Repayment would be according to an amortization
schedule partly fixed, and reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans
financed.
Re-Lending Terms:          Project sub-loans would be based on cash flow
projections for each investment. Repayment for
individual sector sub-loans, largely for on-farm
production, would not exceed 15 years, including a
grace period of up to six years while terms for
fertilizer credit would be no more than 12
months.  For investments in agro-service centers,
veterinary stations, roads, road maintenance
equipment, rural communications equipment, the
Federation of Cooperatives, the Institute for
Economic Development and Geodetic Bureau,
repayments would not exceed 15 years, including
four years of grace. The foreign exchange and
variable interest rate risk on the Bank loan would
*                                        be borne by the Government of Kosovo in the case
of individual farmers and by the sub-borrowers in
the case of the social sector borrowers.
Project Description:       The project objectives are to generate economic
activity throughout rural Kosovo, though with a
focus on individual farmers in its least developed
communes. This will be done through the
development of a more productive individual sector
and through strengthening the institutional
capacity of Kosovo's major development bank,
Kosovska Banka, Pristina (KBP) and the Federation
of Cooperatives, Kosovo. The project would,
Thisdocumenthasarestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
through an integrated approach, (a) increase
individual sector on-farm investments for
livestock, crops, fruit and vegetable production;
(h) provide short-term credit for about 36,000
tons of incremental fertilizer consumption by
individual farmers; (c) strengthen and improve
provincial services, including marketing
opportunities for individual sector farmers; (d)
upgrade village access roads; (e) support the
Province's land consolidation program in six of
the project communes by providing additional
equipment for the Geodetic Bureau; (f) improve
rural communications by providing equipment and
staff training for the Province's radio stations;
and (g) contribute to institution building within
KBP, the Federation of Cooperatives (FC) and the
Institute for Economic Development (IED), as well
as other provincial services, including
agricultural extension, veterinary and
cooperatives.
Project Benefits and Risks
About 5,000 individual sector farm families would
benefit directly from sub-loans for livestock,
horticulture, machinery, farm inputs and from the
irrigation, drainage and erosion control
sub-projects. 12,600 farm families would benefit
from improved and expanded agricultural extension
services, while 11,600 individual farmers would
benefit from the increased use of fertilizer
provided by the project through short-term
credit. Though not quantified, a substantial
number of farm families would benefit from
improved access provided by upgraded rural roads
(about 700 Km). About 75% of the beneficiaries
have per capita annual incomes below $500. After
full development, the average participating
farmer's income is expected to rise from $1,500.00
per farm family annually to $2,700.00 annually.
The project carries comparatively high risks in
that it is the first in Yugoslavia to provide
investment and services directed primarily at the
individual sector. Coordinating the several
implementing agencies also introduces elements of
risk, as do the current financial and economic
problems in Kosovo and Yugoslavia in general.
Project preparation has dealt directly with these
uncertainties and a strong commitment to this
project by Kosovo's new Government should minimize
the risks.



-iii -
Estimated Cost:                        Local     Foreign       Total
… ---  (US$ Million)-------
On-farm investments                     24.6        18.4        43.0
Rural roads                             13.8        10.1        23.9
Agricultural Cooperative
Centers                                 3.1         2.3         5.4
Land consolidation                       1.2         1.6         2.8
Irrigation rehabilitation                5.1        11.0        16.1
Drainage and flood control               1.4         1.1         2.5
Radio-rural communications               -           0.7         0.7
Institute of Economic
Development                             -           0.1         0.1
Fertilizer Credit                        1.4         6.9         8.3
Federation of Cooperatives               0.2         0.5         0.7
Animal health                            0.3         0.2         0.5
KBP Credit Service                       -           0.2         0.2
Extension Service                        0.5         0.5         1.0
Incremental Working
Capital                                 6.5                     6.5
Total-Base Cost                       58.1       53,.6      111.7
Physical contingencies                   5.2         4.9        10.1
Price contingencies                     12.4        10.6        23.0
Total Project Cost 1/                 75.7       69.1       144.8
Interest during
construction                            6.5        18.8       25.3
Front-end fee on Bank loan               -           0.588       0.588
Total Financing
Requirements                       82.2        88.5       170.7
1/ Taxes and duties equivalent to $2.9 million are included.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                          Local       Foreign      Total      % of
---------US$ Million--------   Financing
World Bank 1/                          -           79.0        79.0     46.2
Federal Funds (KBP) 2/                49.2          9.5 3/    58.7      34.4
Sub-borrowers                         29.0          -          29.0     16.9
Provincial Budget                      4.0                      4.0      2.5
Total Project Financial Requirements   82.82 L88.5                170.7    100.0
Estimated Disbursements
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
-------------…US  Million ------------
Annual                                 7.2    14.9    24.9    19.7    12.3
Cumulative                             7.2    22.1    47.0    66.7    79.0
Rate of Return: About 23%
Appraisal Report, Report No.1454-YU, dated March 18, 1983
1/ Includes $9.4 million for interest on Bank loan during construction of
selected infrastructure components.
2/ Includes proceeds from Federal Fund for Development of the Less Developed
kegions. No KBP resources.
3/ Interest on balance of Bank loan (50%) for fertilizer and credit components.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA (KBP)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) for the equivalent of US$79.0
million, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, to help finance a Regional Development Project in the Socialist
Autonomous Province of Kosovo. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report
Yugoslavia:  Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
A. Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the
Constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has increasingly shifted from the federal level to the republics,
autonomous provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers'
collectives over the socially-owned means of production has been increased
by a restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous
Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest
units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements which are widely used in micro
economic decisions have also gradually become a part of the system of
macroeconomic management. These instruments enable the participation of
all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy while



maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation.
Beginning with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments have
been used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal policy
measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including
government bodies, on a non-hierarchical basis. An exhaustive interchange
of information is required to achieve consistency among the plans of
economic units concurrent with broader social objectives. Once consistency
is achieved, economic units enter into legally binding medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant
level are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
B. Economic Trends andDevelopment Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US$2,790 at 1981
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy, with the share of industry in GDP now around
42% and that of agriculture about 12%. The past three decades have also
witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise exports and imports grew by around 6% and
8% per annum in real terms, respectively. While much of this trade was
with markets in the convertible currency area, however, Yugoslavia's export
performance to the industrial market economies has showed increasing
weakness over the past decade, particularly since 1973.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita output, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR).  The difference in
per capita output between the most developed region in the country,
Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these
interregional disparities there are large intraregional disparities with
differences in per capita output between communes as high as 10 to 1.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



-3-
These disparities reflect several factors, notably the greater incidence of
low productivity agriculture in the LDR, their higher dependency ratios and
their higher population growth rates, which averaged 1.2% annually during
1971-81. Since 1965 sizeable concessionary investment credits (with about
a 50% grant element), have been granted to the LDR through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions, financed
through a tax on all social sector enterprises in the economy. In
addition, the Federal budget provides supplementary resources for social
sector expenditures in the LDR. Together, these resources account for
about 10% of the social product of the LDR.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional disparities has been the problem
of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern sector. Since
1954, employment in the modern social sector has increased by around 4% per
annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector. Despite
this impressive record, substantial productivity and income differentials
remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(predominantly private) agricultural sectors. The persistence of these
differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
there were about 1.1 million external migrants. Since 1973, however, this
trend has been reversed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure
on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have
risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1982. 1/ The incidence
of unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged
from 29% in Kosovo to 2% in Slovenia.
C. Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive record of economic and social development
since World War II, Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult
economic situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic
liberalization in 1965. The domestic and international repercussions of
the events which followed the 1979 oil price shock are still being felt by
the Yugoslav economy. In many respects the difficulties facing Yugoslavia
are similar to those facing most middle income developing countries:
higher oil prices and interest rates, sluggish world trade and more
difficult access to international commercial bank credit. The severity of
Yugoslavia's economic problems, however, also reflects structural
deficiencies in the pattern of Yugoslav development which became
increasingly apparent in the seventies and which are discussed in Part II
of this report. These conditions prompted the Government to introduce a
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about
9% in 1982.



-4-
series of stabilization measures beginning in 1980. The main elements of
the stabilization program introduced thus far have been restrictive
monetary and fiscal policies to curb investment and reduce inflationary
pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate policies to encourage
exports. At the same time, imports have been scaled back ir line with the
revenues accruing from export earnings and more limited foreign borrowing.
Yugoslavia's stabilization efforts have been supported by substantial IMF
assistance, and the country is currently in the third year of a three-year
standby arrangement with the IMF in an aggregate amount of SDR 1,662
million, in effect since January 1981.
10.      As a result of its stabilization program, Yugoslavia succeeded in
reducing its current account deficit from $3.7 billion in 1979 to $2.3
billion in 1980 and to $0.9 billion in 1981. Underlying this improvement
was a strong surge in merchandise exports which increased in volume by 11%
in 1980 and 8% in 1981. At the same time, merchandise import volumes were
reduced by 14% in 1980 and 12% in 1981. In 1982, however, exports
increased by less then one percent in value over the previous year,
indicating negative real growth. This was attributable to continuea
recession in Yugoslavia's major trading partners, some erosion of
competitiveness, and to some extent to shortages of imported inputs.
Performance of invisibles in 1982 was also below expectations. The
Yugoslav authorities responded by devaluing the dinar (by 49% against the
dollar during 1982) and by further cuts in imports (the value of
merchandise imports in 1982 declined by 8.2%). As a result of these
efforts the current account deficit was further reduced, to an estimated
$0.5 billion. One notable effect of the cutback in imports has been the
shortage of oil products. In October 1982, the government introduced
rationing of gasoline for domestic passenger vehicles with purchases
restricted to 40 liters per month. While every effort is being made to
isolate important domestic producers (and exporters in particular) from the
effects of the import restrictions, the import squeeze is continuing to
cause difficulties for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2%. In both 1980 and 1981 GDP growth is estimated at 2.2%.
The latest available estimates indicate that GDP growth declined by 1% in
1982. This reduction in growth is partly a result of the stabilization
measures, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and
manufacturing output has been particularly affected. In 1979 it increased
by over 8%, but over the two years 1980 and 1981 it rose by only 4%, and
declined by an estimated 0.3% in 1982. There have been marked fluctuations
in agricultural output mainly due to climatic factors. After stagnating in
1980 and 1981, agricultural output increased by 5% in 1982.
12.      Fixed investment has fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at an average rate of 9.5% between 1975
and 1979, it declined by 6.0% per year in 1979-82. Despite these slowdowns
in investment and economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably



- 5 -
successful in maintaining a fast pace of job creation in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.2% in 1980, 2.9% in 1981
and 2.3% in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has been fastest
in the LDR where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
13.      One of the major aims of the stabilization program has been to
secure a significant reduction in the rate of inflation, which increased
from 13% in 1978 to 22% in 1979. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, inflationary pressures have continued
to pose substantial problems for the economy. In 1980 and 1981 inflation
accelerated to 30% and 38% respectively. In an effort to bring inflation
under control, the authorities introduced temporary price ceilings on a
wide range of goods on July 31, 1982. This policy has met with only
limited success, however, and inflation during 1982 was 32%. The
persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. The
efforts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural
production and rationalize energy use have all served to put upward
pressure on the price level. The increase in international prices since
1979 and the cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of the
dinar have resulted in a considerable increase in domestic production
costs. Nominal personal income growth has also proved difficult to
control. The Government's intention is to reduce the rate of inflation to
20% during 1983. Given the likely inflationary effects of the depreciation
of the dinar and mounting pressure from workers to reverse the decline in
real wages (which have fallen by 17% in real terms since 1979), any
reduction in the inflation rate below the 1982 level should be considered a
significant achievement.
14.      Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in
international interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from
$0..8 billion in 1979 to an estimated $1.9 billion in 1982. Principal
repayments on medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $1.9 billion in
1982. While there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's
adjustment efforts, the commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious
position toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to
adverse developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity
problems experienced by some Yugoslav banks.
Medium Term Prospects
15.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on economic growth, particularly
the constraints on external borrowing, the plan is being significantly
revised. Rather than setting detailed medium-term targets for production
and investment, the plan in effect now consists of a series of rolling
targets determined by each successive annual plan resolution. The main
goal of economic policy is to put the balance of payments on a secure



tooting and to ensure stable and sustained growth during the 1986-90 plan
period. For the next few years, however, the authorities expect to see
continued slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports. This strategy
also implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation.
Through a combination of import restriction and export promotion, the aim
is to achieve a current account surplus before the end of the plan period.
Within the reduced investment program, the priorities stressed are export
promotion, the development of domestic energy sources and raw materials,
production of basic metals, basic chemicals and capital goods. The plan
also stresses agricultural development in order to reduce food imports and
to expand food exports. Nonproductive investment, except for housing, is
to be cut back sharply.
16.      Since slower growth will make it more difficult for the social
sector to generate additional employment at the pace of the past, emphasis
is being laid on the development of labor intensive activities, including
small-scale enterprises and the increased use of shift work.
17.      Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
regions will play an important role in this process, with particular stress
on encouraging social sector enterprises in the more developed regions
(MDR) to make direct investments in the LDR. The initial experience with
such joint ventures is encouraging and a substantial number of such
projects have been launched. They could make a significant contribution to
the overall efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the
transfer of technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.
Creditworthiness
18.      Commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia have declined
significantly and most recent credits have been organized on a bilateral
intergovernmental basis. Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows
declined from $4.2 billion in 1980 to an estimated $2.0 billion in 1982.
Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated
at about $16.3 billion at the end of 1982 while short-term debt at the end
of December 1982 stood at about $1.8 billion. While Yugoslavia was able to
increase its short-term borrowing by about $1 billion during the 1979-81
period, it was unable to roll all of this debt over during 1982 and
outstanding short-term debt declined by approximately $500 million over the
course of the year. During 1982 there was a substantial decline in foreign
exchange reserves which at the end of that year amounted to $1.7 billion,
or roughly one month of imports of goods and services.
19.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in past
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. The World Bank is the principal source of



- 7 -
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances, the debt
service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 16% between
1976 and 1981, while the debt service ratio in convertible currencies
averaged 19% over the same period. In 1982 the estimated aggregate debt
service ratio climbed to 22 percent reflecting the increase in interest
payments on floating rate debts and the decline in the value of exports.
Similarly the estimated debt service ratio on convertible currency debts
rose to 27 percent. In order to ensure the orderly repayment of its
external debts, the Federal Government passed a special foreign exchange
law in 1982 which established a series of regional and federal funds for
debt repayment. A major effort, involving some OECD countries,
international commercial banks and the IMF, has been initiated to assist
Yugoslavia in maintaining an orderly debt repayment. Agreement has now
been reached in principle on a total foreign assistance package amounting
to approximately $6 billion. The Yugoslav authorities have also requested
Bank consideration of a structural adjustment loan to complement this
effort. Although Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may remain difficult in
the near term, the aggregate debt service ratio is expected to decline
somewhat over the next few years. Given it's past debt service record,
pragmatism, and demonstrated capacity to implement firm stabilization
policies when these are called for, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a
substantial level of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
20.      The proposed project would be the 78th loan by the Bank to
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,429.46 million.l/ Of this, approximately
36 percent ($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the
transportation sector -- 12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for
a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project.
Historically, Bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in
addition to the transportation loans, six power loans, one
telecommurications loan, three water supply and sewerage and three
multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly focussed on
the agriculture sector for which fifteen operations, totalling $945.6
million (about 27 percent of the total) have been made.  Twenty-one loans
amounting to $475 million (about 14 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and a first Bank
loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976.
21.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981 largely due to a shortage of local funds arising from financial
1/ The 77th loan, was the Serbia Regional Development Project (US$136
million loan).



constraints. Following an implementation review of the whole loan
portfolio with Borrowers in the fall of 1981, performance has markedly
improved in 1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares
most favorably with Bank-wide and regional averages and with most other
countries of a similar per capita income. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently
in its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) increase exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
investment resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets;
and (iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be ent --ely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
continues to be toward the development of the LDR. Underpinning this
orientation are economic surveys of the four LDRs undertaken by the Bank,
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, and ongoing economic
and sector analysis.
23.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of
the LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied
in the 1981-85 Development Plan.   As a result, over the past five years,
almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through operations
for transportation, power, agricultural development and industrial credit.
In the next few years significant Bank lending to the LDR through similar
operations is expected to continue.
24.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, the process of
evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank has
therefore put increased emphasis on fostering coordination, particularly
in the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. The Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas
where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination impact has
most potential.
25.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment
to Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing
arrangements and through assisting in the establishment of new banking
relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank, however, is the major source of
long-term external capital and is expected to remain so in the near
future. In its future lending to Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put



- 9 -
increased emphasis on co-financing, recognizing, however, commercial market
constraints that Yugoslavia is facing.
26.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about
9.0 percent of its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is
expected to remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 5.4 percent in 1981 and is projected to be about
6 percent by 1986.
27.       IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then,
IFC has made 19 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1983, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $327.5 million gross and $178.7 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the LDRs.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture inYugoslayia
28.       In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment has declined steadily in the post-war period. The agricultural
sector, however, remains important in the overall development of the
economy, contributing about 14% of social product, and engaging about 30%
of the country's active population. The agricultural sector accounts for
the income of one-third of the population--a group which is largely rural,
under-employed, and in the relative poverty target group with per capita
income under US$850 per annum. In addition, the agricultural sector makes
an important contribution to reducing Yugoslavia's trade deficit. The
country has a large agricultural resource base, and its favorable climatic
conditions have fostered the growth of a well-diversified agricultural
sector with a significant potential for future development.
29.       Yugoslavia has a unique framework of economic management and
decision-making based on a system of workers' self-management, a system
characterized by social ownership and workers' control of the means of
production. In agriculture this has led to the co-existence of social and
individual (private) sectors. About 83% of agricultural land is owned and
operated by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers making it the only
predominantly privately-owned sector of the economy. With an average
family holding of around 3.2 ha and representing about 95% of the total
agricultural labor force, the individual sector accounts for about 85% of
maize production, 60% of wheat, 75% of vegetables, and ownership of between
85% and 95% of all livestock.  A considerable portion of production in the
individual sector is, however, retained for home consumption and



- 10 -
contributions to marketed output are low. The share of the individual
sector in the marketed output of cereals is about 45%, with a similar
situation prevailing in vegetables and fruits. In livestock, however, a
much higher proportion of individual sector output is marketed. In an
effort to increase income and overcome under-employment, an increasing
number of individual households are moving out of purely agricultural
occupations into part-time agriculture supported by non-farm sector
income. Current estimates indicate that as much as 10% of arable land is
uncultivated because of a large influx of rural population into the urban
sector.
30.       The potential of the individual sector in agriculture received
scant attention until the early 70's and all investment funds were directed
entirely to the social sector. Since then, the individual sector has
received some support through various forms of cooperation and association
with the social sector. The linkage between the two sectors is provided
through agricultural cooperatives (Zadrugas). Cooperation with individual
farmers is achieved through short- or long-term production contracts.
Cooperatives sell agricultural inputs and buy agricultural outputs from all
farmers cooperating in their area of operation and provide farm machinery
services, technical advice, and credit to member farmers. The repayment of
the credit is ensured through the sale of the produce. About half of
Yugoslavia's farmers are involved in some form of cooperation with the
social sector.
31.       The Yugoslav food production system relies on integration of
primary agricultural production, food processing, marketing and
distribution of food products in agro-industrial complexes called
agrokombinats (the integrated factory farms). The social sector controls
about 17% of the total agricultural land in the country and produces 28% of
total agricultural output. Social sector agricultural production grew 5.4%
annually during 1970-1980, compared to 1.2% for the individual sector.
While social sector growth has been impressive in absolute terms,
production etficiency needs improving. Overall, about 85% of total
investment iunds in agriculture still flow to the social sector.
32.       The Federal 1981-1985 Social Plan calls for improved primary
production to satisfy domestic demand; generation of surplus production to
promote agricultural exports; modernization and reconstruction of existing
agro-industry facilities; and utilization of currently unused and abandoned
lands through land reclamation and social sector purchase. The growth of
agricultural output has been targeted at 4.5% per year, with the social
sector planned to grow at 6% and the individual sector at 4% per year.
Agriculture is expected to play an important role in reducing the deficit
in the balance of payments. Agricultural exports are expected to grow at
an annual rate of 10% by the end of the Plan, and agricultural imports to
be reduced by 5% per year. To achieve these objectives, the Plan provides
for investments of Din 152 billion in 1982 prices, representing 9.6% of
total investment in the economy. Overall, the Plan represents a relatively



- 11 -
optimistic view of agricultural production possibilities. Policy and
organizational changes well beyond those currently set out in the Plan will
be needed to achieve the objectives.
Agriculture,inKosovo and thePrject Area
33.       The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo forms part of the
Socialist Republic of Serbia; it is bordered in the West by Albania, in the
south by the Socialist Republic of Macedonia and in the northwest by the
Socialist Republic of Montenegro. Ethnically its people are predominantly
of Albanian origin with the majority Moslem. It is the least developed
area of Yugoslavia with a per capita income of $860 in 1981, about one
third the national average. It is also Yugoslavia's most agrarian region
with the greatest dependence on agriculture (20 percent), and the highest
agricultural (43 percent) ana rural population (66 percent). Kosovo's
population growth of around 2.4 percent annually is nearly treble the
national average, and population density (145 persons/km2) is almost
double.  Notwithstanding levels of food consumption below the Yugoslav
average, Kosovo has a net deficit for its production of all agricultural
products except wine.
34.       During 1970-1980, Kosovo's agricultural production grew annually
by around 3.3 percent. Growth in 1970-1975 was around 6 percent but
dropped to 1 percent in 1975-1980, due partly to adverse weather
conditions, but also to inappropriate development policies, particularly in
the individual sector. Throughout the decade, agricultural crop production
was disappointing, but livestock production growth has been above the
Yugoslav average. The social sector owns about 524,000 ha (48 percent of
total) of which about 55 percent comprises comparatively unproductive
pastures and forest lands. The remaining 565,000 ha is held by about
96,600 individual farmers.
35.       The factors constraining increased agricultural production in
Kosovo and Yugoslavia as a whole are similar, but in Kosovo these are
exacerbated by: (i) development policies which have favored the capital
intensive social sector rather than the individual sector where the
greatest production potential lies; (ii) comparatively weak individual
sector services; and (iii) smaller than average farm size and severe
fragmentation. The rural population is conservative and adoption of modern
technology has in general, been slower than elsewhere in Yugoslavia.
Productivity and yields in Kosovo are generally lower than the Yugoslav
average. In comparison to the social sector, individual sector use of
improved seeds, agro-chemicals, and fertilizer is low. Its development
potential, however, is large since it includes most of the arable land.
36.       Kosovo's 1981-1985 social plan projects an annual 5.7 percent
agricultural growth rate, comprising 10.8 percent in the social sector and
around 4.8 percent in the individual sector. Increased productivity is to
be achieved by increasing the use of inputs such as fertilizer, improved



- 12 -
breeds, and improved seeds. Individual sector plans correctly stress
livestock production and more intensive crops such as vegetables and
fruit. Specialized services are to be strengthened. Total investment in
primary agricultural production during the five year plan period is
expected to be about $297 million, of which about 56 percent is for the
social sector and 44 percent for the individual sector.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector
37.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia has
given increasing importance to the agricultural sector. To accelerate
agricultural growth, the Bank assisted in formulating the 1973 'Green
Plan', a comprehensive framework for agricultural development which, for
the first time, emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector.
The strategy has been to support the development of primary production in
the individual sector in recognition of the fact that the major output
increases can be expected to come from the largest resource block.
Investments in agro-industries in the social sector which serve as the
marketing channels for farm production have also been financed under Bank
loans. This strategy has recognized the need to use investment to promote
a more equitable income distribution by raising the incomes of the rural
poor, and alleviating rural-urban migration.
38.       An agricultural sector review, the terms of reference for which
have been agreed with the Government, is expected to be completed by
end-1983. The review will be jointly financed by the Bank and the Yugoslav
Government and would include participation of staff from both the Bank and
selected Yugoslav institutes. Future Bank lending and sector activities,
will draw heavily on the conclusions of this review.
Performance Under Previous World Bank Agricultural Projects in Kosovo
39.       The Kosovo Regional Development Project would represent the
sixteenth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia,
totalling about $1,022 million or about 30 percent of all Bank loans to
Yugoslavia. Two projects have recently been completed, Macedonia
Agro-Industries I (894-YU) and Agricultural Credit I (1129-YU). No project
completion or performance audit reports have yet been issued however.
Since 1973, Kosovo has received three Bank loans for agriculture totalling
$189 million; $99 million for two multipurpose irrigation projects and $90
million for agro-industry and agricultural development. A further $22.9
million was loaned under three Yugoslav Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans
1129, 1477, 1801-YU).  Of the $211.9 million borrowed for agricultural
development, US$84.4 million (40 percent) was disbursed as of March 31,
1983. The Ibar-Lepenac Multipurpose Project (Loan 777-YU, $45 million,
1972) is fully disbursed. Due to construction difficulties, however,
completion of the major works is about 4 years behind schedule and slow
cooperation among farmers has delayed on-farm development. For the
Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan 1360-YU, US$54 million, 1977), due to



- 13 -
unexpected engineering problems, implementation is about 3 years behind
schedule. Similarly, disbursements under the agricultural credit projects
in Kosovo have generally been slow. The reasons for this are complex but
include: (a) in some cases, implementation difficulties in disbursing
loans to individual producers; and (b) institutional weaknesses of KBP and
its Basic Banks addressed in paras. 47 and 52.
40.       Bank assisted projects emphasize the development of primary
agricultural production in the individual sector, and agricultural
processing facilities in the social sector to provide the outlet for this
production. Government strategy supported by Bank lending, is now to
increase support for the individual sector so as to augment production of
primary commodities and bring it into balance with the country's social
sector processing facilities. This is particularly so in Kosovo province
where in the past, Government tended to lay heavy stress on building up
processing capacity and primary production in the social sector without due
regard to the individual sector. Lessons learned from Bank agricultural
lending operations in Kosovo include, therefore, the need for: (a) project
preparation to be well advanced; (b) accelerating individual sector loan
processing times; (c) strengthening sub-project appraisal and supervision
and improving farmer access to credit; (d) strengthening support services
for the individual sector; (e) improving staff training; and (f) improving
management and stressing the development role of the Associated and Basic
Banks. The proposed project seeks to address these issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project will be undertaken in the twelve poorest of
the twenty two communes in Kosovo, covering an area of 485,000 ha, about 49
percent of the province's total agricultural land area and characterized by
relatively low social sector employment. Population in the project area is
637,000 (1981), in 79,600 households averaging 8 members each. About 30
percent are non-agricultural. The project was identified by a Bank mission
in February 1980; it was prepared by the Kosovo Institute for Economic
Development with the assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
It was appraised in June 1982 and loan negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in February 1983. The Yugoslav delegation was led by
Mr. Reshad Rudi, Secretary for Finance, Socialist Autonomous Province of
Kovoso. Annex III summarizes key events leading to presentation of the
loan to the Executive Directors, and special conditions of the Project.
42.       The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in
the "Staff Appraisal Report - Kosovo Regional Development Project" No.
1454-YU dated March 18, 1983. This report is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The proposed project would be the first financed by the Bank in
Yugoslavia aimed primarily at promoting individual agricultural sector
development. The investments would support and complement previous Bank
financed projects and are designed to generate agricultural activity
throughout rural Kosovo, though with special emphasis on the 12 least
developed communes. It would specifically aim at: (i) increasing
agricultural production; (ii) improving rural incomes; (iii) increasing
capacity utilization of existing social sector agro-processing facilities;
(iv) increasing individual farm sector incomes thereby improving rural
living standards; and (v) reducing income disparity between less developed
communes and those with higher per capita incomes, and between the rural
individual and social sectors.
44.       The project would be comprised of an integrated set of
investments, made for the most part through a credit program. These
include the following;
(a)  Primary_production sub-loans for (i) irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, equipment, and institution building, entailing
rehabilitation of an old 4000 ha irrigation scheme in the Decani
area, and drainage and soil improvement of almost 2000 ha in
Decani and Vitina where the Complex Organization of Associated
Labor (SOUR) and the Agricultural Kombinat (PIRO Agro-Morava) will
be the respective sub-borrowers; (ii) on-farm production through
some 5,000 loans exclusively to individual farmers for labor
intensive activities designed to increase production of meat,
milk, fruit grapes, honey and vegetables, and for the purchase of
farming equipment and tractors; (iii) the purchase by individual
farmers of the incremental fertilizer from cooperatives and social
sector organizations estimated at about 36,000 tons for 11,600
farms over 5 years. Primary production would constitute about 60
percent of project investments.
(b)  Earm service and marketing instruments (i) sub-loans to the
Organizations of Agriculturalists 1/ for the construction or
rehabilitation of about 36 agro-service centers and 60 smaller
depots which would provide basic farm inputs, storage space for
produce, and a broad range of services including about 30 milk
collection centers; (ii) sub-loans to the Working Organization,
"Veterinakos" Pristina, for construction and rehabilitation of
about 25 veterinary stations, 10 depots and 20 shelters for
artificial insemination; (iii) sub-loans to designated
1/ Organizations of Agriculturalists are associations of individual farmers
grouped into cooperatives, basic cooperative organizations, or basic
organizations of cooperants, all of which are associated legally with
the Federation of Cooperatives.



- 15 -
organizations in the Project Communes for upgrading and
rehabilitation of about 700 km of village roads and tracks, as
well as equipment for road maintenance.
(c) Agricultural and'Credit Services (i) sub-loans to enable the
Organizations of Agriculturalists to strengthen extension services
through reorganization, better coordination, and training; and
technical assistance through provision of 15 man-months of
consultant services to the Federation of Cooperatives and the
University of Pristina; (ii) sub-loans for strengthening the
Federation of Cooperatives as a development institution and in its
role as the project coordinating unit through reorganization,
training, technical assistance, and equipment, vehicles and
infrastructure; (iii) sub-loans for improving the effectiveness,
the quantity and quality of Radio Pristina's agricultural radio
programs especially for individual farmers through technical
assistance, training, new equipment and vehicles for six radio
stations; (iv) development and training by KBP of 12 Agricultur-al
Credit Officers to be employed in the Province's five Basic Banks
and to be responsible for individual farmer loan applications,
field appraisal and supervision; (v) sub-loans to the Geodetic
Bureau tor equipment, and to the Communes for works for a land
consolidation program of about 11,400 ha within the project area
and about 35,000 ha in the areas affected by the Bank financed
Ibar-Lepenac project (Loan 777-YU).
Project Organization and Ilmplementation
45.      Institutional Arrangements.  KBP would be the borrower under the
Project, and have primary responsibility for implementing the farm credit
program and administering sub-loans to sub-borrowers responsible for the
other project components. It will share responsibility for supervision and
monitoring of sub-project implementation with the Project Unit, established
in the Federation of Cooperatives. The Project Unit, to be staffed with
well qualified professionals in the field of agriculture, will have   -
day-to-day responsibility for coordination of project implementation. It
will assist sub-borrowers and the project implementing agencies in
preparing loan applications, procurement documents and annual
implementation schedules and programs, and alert the Project Coordinating
Committee to questions requiring urgent attention and decision. It would
act as a professional secretariat to the Project Coordinating Committee.
To spell out their mutual obligations in detail, the sub-borrowers and
implementing organizations involved in the Project would sign a
self-management agreement. Receipt of a final signed agreement
satisfactory to the Bank would be a Condition of Effectiveness (Section
7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement). The secretary to the Federation of
Cooperatives, a person of extensive individual sector experience, was
nominated as the Project Director and head of the Project Unit (Section
3.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement).



- 16 -
46.      The organizations involved in project implementation will be
linked through the Project Coordination Committee at the Provincial level
and Commune Committees at the Commune level (Section 2.02 of the Kosovo
Agreement). The creation of the Provincial Committee highlights the
regional focus of this Project. The Committee is the first of its kind in
Yugoslavia. It will be an important instrument for sectoral integration as
the program proceeds into the implementation phase, and will provide an
opportunity for airing inter-communal issues that relate to rural
development. Specifically, the Committee would provide regional
coordination and policy guidance, approve annual implementation plans, and
resolve major issues. It would be the link between Government and the
Project. It would be chaired by the President of the Provincial Committee
for Agriculture and comprised of representatives of the Secretariat for
Finance, the National Bank of Kosovo, the Geodetic Bureau, the Self-Managed
Community of Interest for Water Economy, and for Roads, the Economic
Chamber, the Federation of Cooperatives, KBP, Agrokosovo, Faculty of
Agriculture, Veterinakos, and Radio-Television Pristina. Commune Executive
Council Presidents would also be invited to attend PCC meetings when
matters concerning their particular Commune are to be discussed. The
Committee would report directly to the Kosovo Executive Council. Its
decisions would be passed to the Project Director, and through him, to
similarly constituted commune Project Coordinating Committees and, as
necessary, to the participating implementing agencies.
47.      KBP as the borrower under the guarantee of the Federal Government,
would implement the farm credit program through its Basic Banks in the
project area. KBP is potentially the most important development
institution in Kosovo, and yet, despite its relatively solid financial
position, it lacks a strong development orientation, particularly in
agriculture. To date, it has not devoted adequate attention to project
identification and supervision, and as a result its sub-projects are often
poorly conceived and supervised. At the same time, its system for
processing and approval of sub-loan applications, particularly from
individual farmers, has proven to be long and complex. Inefficient
procedures for disbursement of sub-loans through its Basic Banks, combined
with a weak management reporting system have also resulted in poor
disbursement performance under the Bank's second and third agricultural
credit loans. To help improve KBP's internal efficiency in these areas --
essential if it is to play an active development role in accelerating
production in the individual sector -- assurances were obtained during
negotiations that as a Condition of Effectiveness KBP would employ a
development banking advisor with qualifications acceptable to the Bank and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (Section 7.01 (b) of the
Loan Agreement). It was also agreed that KBP would implement
recommendations approved by the Bank to shorten and simplify its
sub-project appraisal process and in consultation with the Federation of
Cooperatives, reduce the number of farmer applications to be grouped as a
prerequisite to loan application, from 20 to 10. Proposed steps to shorten
and improve KBP's sub-loan processing procedures are also to be submitted



- 17 -
to the Bank for review by October 31, 1983 (paragraphs A (1), (2) and (5)
of the Annex to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
48.      Like most Associated Banks in Yugoslavia, KBP with its 7 Basic
Banks, dominates the mobilization and allocation of financial resources in
Kosovo. It is the primary channel for disbursing proceeds from the
"Federal Fund for the Development of the Least Developed Regions" (Federal
Fund), the source of about 60 percent of the funds invested in Kosovo. It
is also solely responsible for mobilizing financial resources from foreign
sources and handling the foreign exchange portion of investment projects.
KBP will be directly associated with no less than 90 percent of the 1981-85
Kosovo investment plan.
49.      As with all banks in Yugoslavia, KBP does not operate to maximize
profits but rather to provide services and earn income adequate to cover
expenses. In this respect, key financial ratios have been consistently
maintained. The largest financial source has remained long-term borrowing,
largely from federal and provincial special funds, constituting about 67
percent of its total resources in 1981. Short-term funds as a percentage
of total funds available have remained constant at around 30 percent. The
debt-equity ratio was constant at around 9 in 1979-80, and registered an
increase to 11.5 in 1981. Given the proportion of Federal Fund loans
included in total debt, however, this ratio remains satisfactory. As for
KBP's loan portfolio, during 1979-81 long-term loan approvals for
agriculture and agro-industry showed a real annual increase of about 59
percent. For these three years, agriculture and agro-industry represented
on average about 29 percent of KBP's loan portfolio, of which about 5.5
percent only went to the individual sector.
50.      Implementation.  Project implementation began in late 1982 and
will continue over 5 years. Actual investments would be made through
sub-loans from KBP to about 50 participating organizations: for irrigation
and drainage - Bistrica Organization of Associated Labor at Decane and PIRO
Agromoravo at Vitina: for road construction, upgrading and maintenance -
each of the 12 communes; for agro-service centers, milk collection centers
and agricultural extension - about 36 Organizations of Agriculturalists;
veterinary and animal health - Veterinakos; radio equipment - Radio
Television Pristina; geodetic equipment - Geodetic Bureau; land
consolidation - communes of Glogovac and Vucitrn; equipment and technical
assistance - the Federation of Cooperatives and KBP; for individual sector
farmers - through Organizations of Agriculturalists, who borrow from KBP
and on-lend to farmers. The Provincial Coordinating Committee would be
responsible for regional coordination and planning of investments. All
investments, with the exception of some individual sector loans would be
committed in the first four years and implementation should be completed by
the end of 1987.
51.      Social sector fertilizer use per hectare is about double that of
the individual sector in Kosovo. Since fertilizer is considered critical



- 18 -
to increased production, the project would, on a seasonal basis, finance up
to 90 percent of the annual incremental fertilizer purchased by
Organizations of Agriculturalists for onward sale to individual farmers.
It was agreed during negotiations that all such provincial Organizations
would be eligible to obtain seasonal credit from KBP and that all farmers
would be able to purchase fertilizer, with either cash or credit,
irrespective of whether they are formally "associated" with an Organization
of Agriculturalists (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
52.      To improve access to credit, to speed up the loan application
process, and to increase KBP's awareness of individual sector needs, it was
also agreed during negotiations that KBP would by October 1, 1983 employ an
internationally recruited agricultural credit consultant for a period of at
least 3 man-months and by September 1, 1983 establish a cadre of 12
Agricultural Credit Officers (one per commune) to be employed by the Basic
Banks and to undergo training organized by the internationally recruited
credit consultant (Section 3.01 and paragraphs A (3) and (4) of the Annex
to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement). The Credit Officers, in
collaboration with the extension services of the Federation of
Cooperatives, would be responsible for assisting in the identification,
preparation, appraisal and supervision of all individual sector sub-loans.
Assurances were also received that individual farmers who obtain credit
would be required to sell through the cooperative only the commodity
concerned with the credit or alternatively, the amount of produce
sufficient to cover the debt service requirements. In order to deal with
the chronic weakness of KBP's staff and lack of in-house training, it was
agreed that KBP would by October 31, 1983, employ a full time training
officer to prepare a comprehensive staff training program for KBP and its
Basic Banks. The training officer would prepare a comprehensive staff
training program to be submitted to the Bank for review by December 31,
1983 (Section 3.01 and paragraphs A (5) and C.1 and 2 of the Annex to
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
53.      With regard to the rural roads component, it was agreed during
negotiations that KBP will not enter into sub-loans with any organization
designated by the participating commune until an agreement is obtained with
that commune to (i) establish or nominate a particular, suitable
organization to carry out the road maintenance program; (ii) establish and
maintain a Commune Road Fund with separate accounts for construction and
maintenance; and (iii) provide evidence of adequate sources of funds for
road maintenance; and that the first such agreement between the Borrower
and a commune would be made available to the World Bank for review and
comment before it is finalized and used as a model for future such
agreements (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
54.      The Provincial Federation of Cooperatives has under the 1981-85
Plan been entrusted with responsibility for expanding individual sector
development in association with the social sector. For this reason the
Federation was seen as the institution which, with appropriate



- 19 -
strengthening, would be the most suitable in which to locate the Project
Unit. To this end, the proposed Project will strengthen the Federation
through its training and employment of additional extension staff, subject
matter specialists and cooperative managers and will also appoint 13
experts in a number of specialized fields (Section 2.07 of and paragraph 3
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement). The Kosovo Government has
agreed to meet the costs of hiring the 13 experts to strengthen the
Federation (Section 2.05 (a) (i) (A) of the Kosovo Agreement).
55.     - Training for the project as a whole will be largely the
responsibility of the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Pristina.
While the faculty trains agricultural graduates, there are no specialized
courses in agricultural extension or credit. Under the project, the
Faculty would implement special training programs for Extension Agents,
Subject Matter Specialists, Cooperative Managers and for farmers. The
Faculty would also assist with training of agricultural credit officers.
Project Monitoring_and Evaluation
56.      Monitoring.  KBP will have primary responsibility for monitoring
sub-project implementation. In approving sub-loans involving Bank funds
under this project, it was agreed during negotiations that KBP would ensure
that: (a) sub-projects are technically feasible, and have a minimum 12
percent financial rate of return, and would generate sufficient cash flow
to cover the debt service; (b) continuing technical assistance and market
outlets are ensured; (c) Organizations of Agriculturalists/individual
tarmer cooperation agreements are satisfactory; (d) adequate staffing and
organizational arrangements are made for sub-projects; (e) adequate
seasonal credit is available to sub-borrowers; and (f) economic rates of
return for projects are at least 12% (Part I A of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement). KBP would also implement a new program of internal management
reporting which would indicate to management the status of KBP's overall
financial position, sub-loan approvals, loan portfolio status, arrears,
loan reports and implement monitoring systems acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.05 (b) of the' Loan Agreement).
57.      Evaluation.  To evaluate the impact of project investments on a
continuing basis, assurances were obtained that the Federation of
Cooperatives would submit to the Bank and the Project Coordinating
Committee, annual progress and evaluation reports and prepare a project
completion report. Assurances were also obtained that the Federation will
cause the Institute of Economic Development to collect and analyze data on
the costs, benefits and financial viability of investments (Section 2.05
(a) and (b) of the Project Agreement). It was also agreed that under
contract to the Federation of Cooperatives, the Institute would monitor and
evaluate the effects of Government administered producer prices, and other
subsidies and premiums, as they relate to the individual sector (Section
2.09 of the draft Project Agreement) to be financed by the Government of



- 20 -
Kosovo (Section 2.05 (a) (ii) of the Kosovo Agreement). They will report
regularly to the Project Coordinating Committee.
Project Cost and Financing, Plan
58.      Total financial requirements, including working capital, physical
and price contingencies, interest during construction, and the front-end
fee, is estimated at US$170.7 million, of which 52 percent or US$88.5
million would be the foreign exchange component. Unit costs are based on
June 1982 Dinar estimates and are updated to December 1982 to reflect the
effects of international price escalation of 3.9% for that period. Foreign
exchange costs have also been updated to reflect the impact of the Dinar
devaluation in October 1982. Details of the project cost estimates are
shown in the Loan and Project Summary. Average physical contingencies of
9% of base cost (range 5%-25%), and price contingencies, which average 21%
of base cost plus physical contingencies, have been included. Price
contingencies reflecting the expected movement of international prices,
have been computed annually at 3.9% for June-December 1982, at 8.0% for
1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985, and 6.0% for 1986-88. The proposed
Bank loan of US$79 million would finance 89% of the foreign exchange costs
and 46% of the total financing requirements. It would include US$.588
million capitalized front end fee and US$9.4 million for interest during
construction. Bank financing of 50% of the foreign exchange cost of
interest during construction is justified due to the long gestation of
selected infrastructure investments. By November 30th of each year, and
beginning with November 30, 1983, the Borrower will submit to the Bank for
review, a financing plan for those sub-projects to be financed in the
subsequent year (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). The Bank loan would
be made to KBP for 15 years, including three years grace. KBP would
on-lend the proceeds to sub-borrowers in accordance with the terms and
procedures described in paragraphs 59 and 60. Most of the Bank loan would
be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule, reflecting the
composite repayments of sub-loans by the sub-borrowers. Since individual
sector loans are grouped together and made through cooperative
organizations, an adjustable repayment schedule would be used for these
sub-loans. The balance of the loan would be repaid on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
59.      The terms of the sub-loans would be based on cash flow projections
for each investment.  Repayment of individual sector sub-loans would not
exceed 15 years, including a grace period of up to 6 years. Short-term
loans of no more than 12 months will be provided for the purchase of
fertilizer by individual farmers. For investments in agri-service centers,
veterinary stations, roads, road maintenance equipment, Radio and
Television Pristina, the Federation of Cooperatives, the Institute of
Economic Development, and Geodetic Bureau equipment, repayments would not



- 21 -
normally exceed 15 years including up to 4 years grace. All sub-borrowers
would normally contribute not less than 20 percent of total investment
costs in either cash, kind, or labor. In accordance with Yugoslav law,
proceeds from the Federal Fund for the Development of Less Developed
Regions would, where necessary, be treated as part of sub-borrower
contributions.
60.      Interest-Rates.  Despite a prevalent view in Yugoslavia that the
role of interest rates in investment allocation is subordinate to that
played by social planning and group consensus, a more active use of
interest rate policy has increasingly become the object of Government
policy. Indeed, the new Federal Social Plan and the National Assembly have
resolved that interest rates should play a more important role in resource
mobilization and allocation. The medium term objective is to introduce
over time a structure of positive real interest rates by gradually
adjusting nominal rates upwards and concurrently reducing inflation. In
this respect, Government anti-inflationary measures, applied in accordance
with agreements reached with the IMF, have succeeded in bringing inflation
down from an annual rate of over 50% in the first half of 1981 to about 30%
in 1982. At the same time, the Government has over the past three years
more than doubled lending rates for consumer credits, most recently in
October 1982 raising from 16 to 18% the costs of long-term consumer credit
while at the same time raising interest rates on time deposits. The three
year time deposits are now at a level of 28%.
61.      In the present project, however, in addition to the contributions
from sub-borrowers and the provincial budget, only proceeds from the Bank
loan and the Federal Fund for the Development of the Less Developed Regions
would be used. Since the latter are derived through obligatory
contributions from enterprises to meet specific social objectives and their
mobilization and allocation are inelastic to interest rate charges, their
cost in Kosovo is fixed by Yugoslav law at 4.5 percent. For Bank funds to
the social sector, the prevailing variable interest rate would be charged.
KBP charges a spread of between 1.25 - 2.75 percent, bringing the rate to
between 12.2 percent and 13.72 percent on the basis of the current Bank
rate of 10.97 percent. The social sector sub-borrowers will carry the
foreign exchange risk bringing the real cost of Bank funds close to that of
international commercial sources taking into account the currency pooling
system and current international lending rates. Because the individual
sector investors are amongst those with Yugoslavia's lowest per capita
incomes, the foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks for
individual borrowers will be carried by the Government of Kosovo. The
on-lending rate for Bank funds to these farmers would however be a minimum
of 18 percent. An understanding has also been reached with the Federal
Government for periodic reviews of interest rates on loans to the
agricultural sector in order to achieve positive real interest rates over
the next three years with a limited number of high priority exceptions
where rates will achieve positive levels in five years.



- 22 -
62.      Cost Recovery.  The irrigation and drainage sub-projects would be
financed by 20% equity contributions and 80% borrowed funds. Their debt
service and replacement costs would be recovered from water users through
charges levied by the implementing agencies. Operation and maintenance
costs asso"iated with the irrigation and drainage systems would be
recovered through an appropriate annual per hectare charge collected by the
local fiscal agency of the communes Decane and Vitina. These charges would
be gradually increased to full development in order to alleviate the
financial burden of farmers during the early years of operations. Deficits
incurred would be covered by the Province of Kosovo. The charges would, as
with other Bank-financed irrigation and drainage projects in Yugoslavia, be
based on an "ability to pay" and are expected to cover operation and
maintenance costs, and debt service amortization.
63.      Markets.  Individual farmers market most of their vegetable
produce through market centers which are not subject to price controls
established in the small towns throughout the Project area. Industrial
crops, such as oilseeds, sugarbeet, cereals, vegetables, fruit, meat and
milk (for processing and marketing to areas outside of local centers) are
handled at prices set by the Government through facilities managed by
social sector organizations which are members of Agro-Commerce, the
marketing organization within Agro-Kosovo. Agro-Commerce which is
improving and expanding its marketing channels in other regions in
Yugoslavia, would also be responsible for marketing the project's
exportable output.
64.      Accounts and Auditing.  KBP would maintain separate project
accounts for sub-loan disbursements. The Federation would also maintain
separate project accounts. Assurances were obtained during negotiations,
that: (a) KBP and the Federation would have their accounts audited to
internationally accepted standards; and (b) would submit the audited
accounts to the Bank within 6 months of the close of each fiscal year.
Assurances were also obtained that the auditors would give a separate
opinion as to the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls,
and whether satisfactory procedures are in operation to ensure that
withdrawals supported by statements of expenditure have been used for the
correct purposes (Section 5.02 and 5.03 of the Loan Agreement and Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of the Project Agreement). Past compliance with similar
accounting and auditing requirements under other Bank loans has been
satisfactory.
Procurement and Disbursement.
65.      Procurement for (i) the irrigation sub-project equipment and
pipes, estimated to cost about US$17.2 million; and (ii) geodetic bureau,
radio and television, and road maintenance equipment, costing about US$2.5
million, would be carried out following International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Yugoslav manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty,



- 23 -
whichever is lower. Due to its specialized nature and the need for
compatability with existing equipment, the radio station equipment,
estimated to cost US$0.8 million would be purchased through Limited
International Tendering (LIT) procedures under which quotations would be
obtained from three qualified suppliers. Contracts for (i) construction of
buildings, irrigation and drainage civil works, and roads costing about
US$50.0 million; (ii) tractors and related farm machinery estimated at
US$8.0 million; and (iii) fertilizer and other goods and services for
individual sector on-farm development estimated at about US$10.0 million,
would be procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. In the case of the farm machinery, foreign bidders
will have the opportunity to participate. The works and equipment involved
are not suitable for ICB due to the dispersion of investors, wide
differences in the types of construction required and the relatively small
size of each contract. Sufficient commercial channels and civil works
contractors are available in Yugoslavia to provide adequate competition for
the supply of goods and civil works needed under the components. Some 18
man-months of internationally recruited consultancy services would also be
required costing about US$10,000.00 per man-month including salaries,
travel, overhead and related fees. Total procurement under this project is
estimated at US$88.5 million and is expected to result in about 85
contracts. Of these, about 5 ICB contracts, amounting to roughly US$20.0
million would be reviewed by the Bank, representing 23 percent of the total
value of procurement.
66.      To maintain the momentum generated during preparation and
appraisal, to avoid costly implementation delays and the loss of one
growing season, preliminary work on many sub-projects commenced late in
1982 shortly after appraisal. In some cases, construction, final
engineering design, and staff selection has already started. In order to
allow work for roads and agri-service centers to proceed as scheduled,
retroactive financing of foreign exchange expenditures incurred after July
1, 1982, up to an amount of US$6.0 million, is provided for (paragraph 4 of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
67.      Disbursement of the Bank loan would extend over 5.0 years and be
made as follows: (a) for irrigation, drainage and erosion control,
extension, cooperative depots, veterinary centers, rural roads and
equipment, land consolidation, vehicles, equipment and consultancy services
for the Federation of Cooperatives, Institute of Economic Development, the
Geodetic Bureau and radio station equipment, 100 percent of foreign
expenditure and 48 percent of local expenditures disbursed by KBP; (b) for
individual sector subloans for livestock, horticulture, small scale
irrigation, and farm mechanization, 100 percent of foreign expenditure and
48 percent of local expenditures disbursed by KBP; (c) 90% of amounts
disbursed by KBP for sub-loans for incremental fertilizer purchases; (d)
for consultancy services, vehicles and equipment for KBP, 100 percent of
expenditures; (e) for interest on the Bank loan during construction of
selected infrastructure components, 100 percent. In order to avoid tying



- 24 -
up scarce foreign exchange resources while withdrawal requests are being
processed by the Bank thereby expediting disbursement of Bank funds, it was
agreed that a revolving fund, in the form of a special account with KBP,
would be established as a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 (c)
of the Loan Agreement). The fund would cover estimated Bank disbursements
for 75 days plus 20 percent of that as a cushion (Schedule 6 of the Loan
Agreement). Disbursements would be supported by full documentation in the
case of foreign expenditures under all sub-loans. For all other
expenditures, as in the case of previous Bank loans to KBP, the Bank would
disburse against statements of expenditure, since they would involve
on-lending largely for comparatively small borrowers and would finance
small and numerous expenditures. Disbursements for sub-projects costing
more than US$1 million equivalent would be subject to presentation of a
satisfactory appraisal report to the Bank.
Benefits-and Risks
68.      General:  The Project would accelerate Kosovo's economic growth
through the development of the individual agricultural sector. Benefits
would derive from: improved productivity and incomes through investments
in livestock, intensive horticulture, and crop production in which small
farmers have a comparative advantage due to the labor intensity of the
operations; the consolidation of fragmented farmholdings; and increased
farmer awareness of new technology through the improvement of farm radio
programs and contact with extension services. Both Kosovo and Yugoslavia
as a whole would benefit directly from (a) increased production of meat,
milk, industrial crops, fruit and vegetables to meet growing consumer
demand (b) indirect foreign exchange earnings and the reduction of
agricultural imports; and (c) strengthening of development institutions in
Kosovo. The equivalent annual foreign exchange earnings and savings from
incremental Project production at full development, if equivalent
production was exported or substituted for imports, would amount to about
$46 million. Non-quantifiable benefits would include: (a) the improved
institutional development of KBP, the Federation of Cooperatives, the
Institute of Economic Development, and other participating organizations;
and (b) fostering of increased cooperation between the individual and
social sectors through the individual sector credit program and an expanded
agricultural extension service. The project would have no major
environmental effect.
69.      Beneficiaries.  About 5,000 individual farm families (40,000
persons), would benefit directly from sub-loans for livestock,
horticulture, machinery, farm inputs, irrigation, drainage, and erosion
control subprojects. About 12,600 farm families would benefit from
technological changes due to the impact of the improved and expanded
agricultural extension service. Moreover, 11,600 farmers would benefit
from the impact of increased use of fertilizer provided by the project
through short-term credit. Although not quantified, a substantial number
of farm families would benefit from the the upgraded rural roads (700 km)



- 25 -
which would improve access to markets and input supplies. About 75 percent
of direct beneficiaries are expected to belong to a target group with per
capita incomes below US$500.
70.      Employment  The project's contribution to expanding employment
opportunities in the project area would be significant. Most of the
employment created (about 1,100 man years) would be through more
intensified agricultural operations developed under the project,
principally derived from more intensive farming practices in dairying and
in fruit and vegetable production. In addition, the project would create
some 200 permanent jobs in the incremental staffing of agri-service centers
and milk collection stations as well as substantial temporary employment
during the construction period of the project's infrastructure component,
especially rural roads. In light of the important part played by women in
the agricultural system of Kosovo, under the project the extension staff
would be expanded with women professionals.
Rates of keturn
71.      The economic rate of return to the overall project is about 23
percent. The results demonstrate that the Project would retain economic
viability even with unexpected changes in costs or benefits. For example,
investment costs would have to be 90 percent above the appraisal estimates
to lower the rate of return to 12 percent, or the net operating margin
would have to be 23 percent below estimates to lower it to 12 percent. A
one year delay in implementation and a cost overrun of 10 percent would
lower the rate of return to 16 percent.
72.      Risks.  In comparison with other projects in Kosovo and
Yugoslavia, this project carries a higher degree of risk. It is the first
project in Kosovo to deal primarily with individual sector investments and
services. The thoroughness of preparation, and the dialogue established
with Government and implementing agencies during appraisal, however, will
help to minimize this risk.  A strong commitment to ensure successful
project implementation exists, not only within the Kosovo Government, but
with the other provincial authorities including KBP, the Federation of
Cooperatives and the local communes which would have direct reponsibility
for implementation. The large number of separate implementing agencies
also involves a higher degree of risk as they would require close
coordination, first at the regional and political level by the Project
Coordinating Committee, and secondly at the commune level by the Commune
Coordinating Committees. Institutionally, the Federation of Cooperatives
would be considerably strengthened to enable it to satisfactorily carry out
its role.
73.      Restrained farmer response for some types of investments may
occur. The risk will be substantially reduced by strong Government support
to ensure adequate and timely supply of production inputs and supporting
equipment and spare parts. The provision of credit for purchase of



- 26 -
chemical fertilizers also is expected to reduce this risk. The commitment
to strengthen the agricultural extension and other services for individual
sector farmers, including the farm radio broadcasts, is evidence of the
government support needed to substantially reduce this risk and to increase
the rate of farmer adoption of new technology. Current financial and
economic problems throughout Kosovo and in Yugoslavia in general have
increased the risk that implementation could be slowed due to shortages of
local funds. The Government agreement to prepare annual financing plans
for review by the World Bank should help to reduce this risk. Achievement
of the projected increases in agricultural and livestock production would
be subject to the normal climatic variations which often cause harvest
losses and effect overall yield levels. Changes in market prices due to
external market adjustments or international and domestic inflationary
pressures are expected to result, in the long term, in parallel movements
in prices of output commodities, raw materials, and operating cost, and
thus have a minor impact on net operating margins. Considering the
potential benefits to the economy and to individuals in Kosovo, the risks
described are acceptable.
PART V -LEGAL INSTRUMENTS-AND AUTHORITY
74.      The Loan Agreement between the Bank and Udruzena Kosovska Banka
Pristina (KBP), the Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank
and Zadruzni Savez Kosovo and the Agreement between the Bank and the
Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo on Kosovo's obligations, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
75.      In addition to the features of interest of the loan which are
referred to in the text and described in Section III of Annex III of this
Report, special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan are that
(i) the Self-Management Agreement between all parties and organizations
concerned has been entered into, is in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank and is in effect; (ii) the Borrower has appointed a development
banking advisor; and (iii) the Special Account for the Revolving Fund has
been established (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
76.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 27 -
PARI VI - RECONMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
April 22, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                                  ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET                     Page  1 of  6
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
AREA (TEOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)--
TOTAL         255.8                                   MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME         INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL    142.4                 1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b             EUROPE            MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   380.0       840.0   2620.0                 2323.9                  10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       932.1     1604.5   2414.9                  2107.4                   7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   18402.0    20371.0  22328.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   27.9       34.8      42.3                   47.9                     78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         28.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2065
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                         71.9        79.6     86.5                   83.3                    138.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      124.2       139.6    155.5                  155.4                    509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           30.5        27.4     24.6                   31.1                     22.7
15-64 YRS.                           63.2       64.8      66.5                   61.2                    65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     6.3         7.8      8.9                    7.7                     11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.2         1.0      0.9                    1.6                     0.8
URBAN                                3.6         3.2      2.9                    3.5                      1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.5        19.0     17.0                   23.6                     14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       10.0         9.0      9.0                    9.2                     9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4         1.3      1.1                    1.6                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)      ..        59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.0        93.0    117.0                  116.0                    111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                    128.1       130.0    135.5/c                125.1                    130.8
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)             95.5        93.3    100.9/c                 92.7                     97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.6        31.7      39.2/;9               35.9                    61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       11.2         4.3       2.0                   9.2                     0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      63.2        66.7     70.5                  ,67.6                     73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             92.0        53.1     32.5                   65.1                     11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        33.6
URBAN                               42.4        62.0
RURAL                                 ..        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..         ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..         ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1616.2      1000.1    762.4/c               1105.4                    620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        632.6/d    406.4    361.9/c                 634.4                   246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              185.5/d    177.1    165.8/e                 286.8                    122.0
URBA                                91.4/;i     95.7    101.7/e                192.0                    140.6
RURAL                             IO35.5/d   1603.9   1835.3/e
AlIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        17.3      18.2/e                20.0                     17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.0         3.8       3.8/e
URBAN                                3.3         3.2      3.3/                    .
RURAL                                4.4         4.3       4.1/_e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.6         1.4
URBAN                                1.7         1.3
RURAL                                1.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DiJELLINGS)
TOTAL                               54.5        87.9
URBAN                               92.7        98.4
RURAL                               36.1        80.1



- 29-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
YUCOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEZT
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVjIAGZS
-  MOST RZCENT ESTIMATESZ
MOST RECENT           mIDDL  INC0MZ           INDUSTRIALIZD
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b              EUROPZ            MARXET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMRYI      TOTAL                111.0       106.0      99.0                   102.4                     101.7
MALZ.               113.0        108.0      99.0                   107.1                     103.9
FEMALE              108.0        103.0      98.0                    99.0                     103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 58.0        69.0      82.0                    60.2                      88.4
MALE                 63.0         78.0      86.0                    66.4                      83.4
FEMALE               53.0         58.0      78.0                    54.0                     84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)    ..         26.4      20.5                    31.6                      18.2
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0        27.1      24.9                    25.8                      20.3
SECONDARY                          13.0        22.4      18.9                    22.2                      16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        77.0        83.5      85.0/f                  75.9                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSZNER CARS PER TilOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        35.4     83.51c                   51.0                     338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         84.9       165.9     209.3                   157.2                    1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        88.3     189.2                   123.7                     403.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  70.3        85.3     103.1                   112.3                     331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0          4.5       3.3                     4.0                       3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8302.0        8837.7L&  9422.2/L                     .                         .
FEMAL   (PERCENT)                  35.0        35.9      36.0                    36.6                      36.O
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.0        51.0      29.0                    38.7                       6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0        23.0      35.0                    25.9                      37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.1        43.4      42.2                    44.5                      45.4
MALE                                 60.0        56.6      54.8                    56.3                      58.9
FEKALE                               30.9        30.6      30.0                    32.8                      32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8        0.8                    0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/h       15.1/i    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.571r      41.47i   38.7                                               43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.971        6.671     6.6                      ..                       5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.071       18.471    18.7                      ..                      16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                       ..                 ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..
RuRAL                                ..          ..     530.0                   406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOWA ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCUI LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Noet applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithuetic means. Coverage of countries
aaong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962; /e 1976; /f 1975; 1j Including migrants workers abroad; /h 1963; /I 1968.
May, 1982



- 30  -                                                ~~~~ANNEX  I
DEFPINITIONS OP SOCIA4L INDItCATORSPgO3 o                                                                            
Hotes:  blthoogh the date "re doss, from sourcesgenerally judged the mas authoritative and reliable, It should alac he eated that obey may eat be inter-
Caioalco arbebcueothlckofsadardizd definitions end conce.Pts used by different tnostlete  in collecting the date.                                       edteseen-
thelea.n.. usful to de...Cihe  rdoro of mgagitude. indinta trends, and  h-aructaies cartait -J.,r differ-enso ht.... cutries..                         h   a.C,w
The.eeen   grucs  rt(1  th  e .  ....coutry grnoP of 'he -hj out  -outry end (2) a --atry gr..up eith nonshut higher  -nrega moose than the coun..try gcp
of,he sbJot coutry (encep.  furI  "eigh :roome   Oil Ecportare" grouP shar  "Middle loos-  North Africa uod Kiddie feat' In chost because of  trooger
nnci-cutn f-ite)   In the neforone gtcp dote theunrue  ar-oouineighted anitbmetic   -n  foe nach todioct- end obe  only  hoh,
maenty of the.. cotcis logrop ha  duos for ehdt indic-tor   Since the onvoag  nf noetniesuong the idinuter- depende no the  -vuilbility of data
ad ntotue  uciform, Cuuticn  -c  he enriad in relatinguvae  of nos indicatar to aeo thor.  These avrgn                    .r only useful in compurieg the value ef
one indiotor at a time  ong the coutry and ref.tront  gtoups.
ARepA  (thou.a.d nq.ka.7                                                                          Popuintioo roe H-luit"l hod - tuteci. chb.. and rura  - Population  (total,
Totol - Total arfuce urea  -cpri.a loglad urea and ielond  ar;1979 deu.                           urban, and rural) dividod by thei  ra-pectin-  -ohe  of hoepiat1 beds
;Zri-ult-ra  - intimate of agnicl1turl'  are -und temporarily or penmanrtly                        -ilahle It pahlln and private general and spenialleed hsspito1 and re-
fnr crops, panuro-. market ond kitohen gardens or en lie fallue; 1979 dsta.                    habiliat-ton  ceters.   Hnepitals are estblihbmete paraently steffed
bY at leas t one~ p kyicis.  lmtsllshnenes proiding principally  -osi-
ISP PERt CAPtTA (US)) - GNP Per ..yica etiuton at curreot market price..  oa1-                      dili care are not teludd.  RuroI hoepitaim. h--eer  tnolcde health
culietd by ose_ovetonmthod an Wrfld Bank Acl-n (1978-80 basis); 1960.                            and medicali ..e  not _  pernne-tly staffed by a phmician  (hat hy a
1970, acd 1980 dace.                                                                              med tos  .mnita.. ICura. midtifr. eon) nAih offe  in-putiert o..o...
datine and provide a limited range of medioul feoillitas.  Par static-
ENtRGT  CONSUMtPTION' P?R CAPITA - dcc..ai --nsoptina of -om-riul etergy 1(altics1 purpoms urban hospitals include WHO.  nnialgnrlhoapitels.
ead l1gu..e, ...ro.o..    caturmi gun sod hydra-... oucea  and geo,therml ele--                  and rura  honpitals, loca  or rural hopitals and medinal cod mateeIty
tr icicy) Ia tilogre  of cool eqoi-ulenpr  ca .pita; 1962. 1970, nd 1979cntrt Specialieed hospitla are i-nclded onty uder total.
date.                                                                                          Adda.iusao  -n ttsp.Ptcl Sad - Total n,bet of odisosto ondnhra
frmhospitals divided by the cuterC of bods.
POPUL.ATION5 ADS VITA]. STATISTICS
Tatal Papulstico, Old-TourC (thutad.) - A. of tly I; 19600. 1970. utd 19f0                   HOMuING
dats.                                                                                        Avro   iee of If  shod (p-rno. Pen household) -tota,1 uEho. and r-nal
lrb-n Pouaion  (pnr..oat of tonal) - Ratin   fubnt  toa  pyltin                                      homhold cooist  ofagopo   nivduosesoe  iigqatr
differntdefinit ions of urban  ret.  ma   effect oospt..ahilic'y of date                       and the ir na   meaIt.  A hoarder  -o ldgnr -y ormy not ho  noladed in
am -aCouti-o; 1960, 1970. and 1981 du to..the hbo.mhold foI                                                           tuiciu  p. orse...
PupultIon. tn, oat lOO - Currnt pplco  prjotunuthnd on, 1980                                   her of pesn   o   onin d   uban   n  rura  ocapo  oovnti
tLto1 popuicit hp age and son a.ud their  maaity and fetil ity racen.                        doel1ingo, renpectively.  Weallingtecclu.dr  o-pran             trc-tures ond
ProjectionP -armeor  for  -oaity rtco  opnn  of hor   laves__nn                              uncupe   pats.
ing  itfe a P=a.ct.ey at bti-    ceutaeh I       cou.try'.n -ocPtta tI_n                   hcAns. to cl-cnioity (percen  of duetlan            tal,uban. ndcorl 
lo-ol, -ed fena-lo life  -per-avy stehilieiog at 77.5 yeurs.  The  ,, Caru                   foveoio...I doellitgmsritnleotniaity in lintag qate atpercentage
metrnfo  frcliY hct   .ut   .tn  three Invi..     sno  decline ie                       of  -oto,  rhar, and rurs1 doeIliogo respnntivnl.
fertility arcoodicgt  coecoladps  fonIy pion..ing perforsct-
inh cstr..Iy Is chon ...igo-d otn of thete nine  -obiostioon of mareality              cIOCATIIN_
and f-vtility tteodo IfcP njec-to  p-rposen.                                               Adjusted Enollmeot  ation
O,tet...cuny populotin-cIn a  tcinrL         ppltion  there 10cc groeth sinc-fImr  ecol    oal   a   od femaln - ir... tet-1, male end fonaIe
thehithran  i  eua Icthy death ruin, ud also the ago  "tenn   o-erimc  o   l   g,enoeptaY, lee.                                            spr.c.u    f  epct
mainnotsnt.  Thinic uohi-vd only otter fci-littY r--c  d-niin  to                         Ptl,eoy tho-gpputin;                  mlly i-cludo  chfldreneged 6-Il
the neplocamaci le-o  of unit on reproduction  tur, oh. en.eeh ge..n-tint                      years hut udj-otd for differeot Iecotho of yrinary education; for
of woenrplac-  it-of ....ntly.  The staioner Y populto   nieascutir   ich aciver...l educatio  enrollment may taced itO  Perc..ut
simodothe hauie ofthe projected       ohoocrsc   fthe populetiootonsoepupls one hel-  -r above the cffuie  tcon  ae
intho par'~ 200, ad the rate of dvci.oe  f fert,iiy ra1te to r-pla-e                          loday ocol-toa,ml.adfml.-.maede   bv;  aadr
mean .leno.                                                                                    edac.tiocre.qoureaa  leas..t foor years of opprovd primary iorci
roa  stuti ...ry popolectoo in roarhed - The year shoc snuciu-y population                       proides on-t.rel  -octac..a, or teah-o   r    e   l-str-ticm  f or pupils
oir  11i hbre-otni.                                                                          __1e1y of 12 to 17 y-arn of age; corrtponde.cc  counto. are g-e-rrlp
Pr no. he  -id-ynar poucioPc  sqaue kilomete  (100 h-Ccero) of                                 caioaeromet(rer_so  of oeondery) -V_ootio..ul instituti..s
.totl ue;1961, 170 ed 1979 dana.                                                             it-lode t            iho nl,ldun-ria, -c tchr  progr-n  uhich  perute indep-nd-
Per no. he..ariu 1nrl ad - ICoyptrd -sahov   for  goic-ItauI land                              .anty or am dnpartmenco of oe-odcryloitcen
oly; 1961. 1971 end 1979 dut.rpil-to..nhct Iol -1 pniayt                                                                     ndnnney        -Tta  stde"tn   tula   it
PoPrclto  At       0-rccr  (poc-0-     Childrro  (0-14  oarl), nri-se(15-                        prmrIn;eoooylvl  dIvidd hpby                    er  onelrsIn the
64pos,adrnrd (65 Yearn end .-rrl as p--cugo  of nid-poar Ppoy-ucrsodglelt
Zltlon;  lbh 9,190, and195  ata                                                              Ault'lipterryrar  cocet  - literate oduIc  (shle tc lmad avd -tite)
FPopMaceo  Oroech late (Per=otd) t-tcta1  A-  ul grooth r-tec of totul eld-                      usPro...otge of toto1 odulc populaclc eged 15 petoerand ovr
year pupoatioc for 1950-60, 1960-70, ed1970-80.
_ouatc  lct  lte  (porcent) - urban - devoal nrthr.tea of urhc Popa-                   CONShfMPTIOt
la-io-o for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-Ri                                                    PongrCa-  (per thousuod  .poplutiun)   P.....o0rr ours  -co0plise etor
Crde Ninthtac           hcad  - Ooue1 lion hitho you thcuoecd of mid-peer                        coosott   les  tha. eifht P-.... ; eon lden asho-con, bhane  and
Prylution; 1960. 1970, aod 1960 dci.tnlinyve   In
Crude le-t  lateI(er th'unud) 9- Aenual do-tha Per rh-,d  of uid-yeur                          ladin coon intr  (per th.ounnd popolatios) - All1 typos of reirnfor radio
populatiot;194,1970,and180 deta.                                                               hooudca~tn  to gcrlpublic per tIhooeod of populotioo; occludes an-
ICas. tp-d-ctio    so-   hvrrA-genanhnc ci daaght-r  a ocen nill   atIt                           licec rd rocev.r  in _conne ins undIn peorn  h..raitrc               of -edlo
her carna  reprduction period if shnnye prcn    _rnnt ago -seific fo-                          stucain, Iffrc; dat  for recast pear  may not he ccrn'uvale since
tItII'rtes t    to l  fo-oravegt di,, ic 1000, I190. ad 1960                           .          tno _noetr irt  aoIahod lcnig
roil   laon.g-rptr.coa(hoad) -                    .tc-i  utr  f  ncytr                      TV Roavr  (e  hu-o    oulto)-TV r..coivers for hroad--  to
of hich-ccnroiderioa uodr acpicruof ac III fouly Plocino prora.                   ceeaiulcpr.thuonod populutioc; oclde-1                   icoo  TVrcevr
Psello rlacint -bern  percot of  arrto  come) - P Ccenge of marrid                in  onti    ad linpoa e.so  registrt-ion-i    sets n tefct.
mesn  f cid-  oic                (15-44 yearn) eh.  n  hbutlc-cntcl  d-vice. to                otyprCircatico  (per tho..na.d popalotico.).-  h-,s the anerage   i-
all marrird onset in num  eon  rop.                                                            olto    f "daIly g...erl itte....c.-enpnper, defnd amt indica
puh Ico~ti_r d-evtd poi-rl'y cc recodin,goenerlI neo.  tt Isoc-idered
POOlD AND VTRTuITiNS                                                                                t  he "daily " if it up pear  at irast tour tilen a mek.
Indru of Toed P%rcdoto  pen - upi-to (1969-7i=100) - lodec of Per capitaanal                   fomaana nhod...pe  eptore                      e-OsueI on tbeobnr of
productio  of oi  fond coseoditur-   Prd      -ticocludes sed cod feed oodIticheta cold dortug rho pr-r. inonding edatiion to dr ive-in ci_ena
In 00caloodur year huas-   Ccsaditieucoroc pri-uy good  (tog. -ogarcavud mebile ocite.
instead of ougr) ohich aedile cod,- . I! cnacdtr,iocity (efg. -ffeo aud
tea are occlude).  Alorocdi rodoc_o o.f eahcunr   s  oe  o                                 .00   ci
catonl eorge  unoce  pice oigh-; 1961-65, 1970, and 1980 data.                       Tonal Llho  Porce (thou....dn) - fo-ood.-oly active persons. iclodiog
Per _apttu  urpcfclre   Iprcnt or r_cuior-eCn) - Cospntod foos                                   au-e  frcet and  -uepleyed hut occlding hounolve, students. etc..
-tcty cqoivulcot of eat foud -aPoio-aouilbhie in c",'trY pot capita                            c-vine  onlt    of uli ages   Irfinitioco  i   ain   -unotcieuu
yar day.  vA-tloblc nupyltt conpl is  domestic  podcio,l-otn  en                               eon   -cncertcl;)1960. 1970 and 1960 datc.
por-. and Chaongn in  _nok. -Not npplios  ncldo animal food,  -edu,                           Feat(ecn) - 1Poal  1uhor fom    npocntg  of  etol labor force.
_aut itte-  -d In lc.d pec...esn.lt  eod lcnsn_ ho ditniloboti'.  Iql                           rtotv   (-nrmat  - labor forco in trmlcng, fi....tey, hnthtg end
macn  o.r.  .t clatd hy PAD be...d on phyiclogitaI needs for_ octal -ac-                         fishing us p-rceatae of tona  labor forc; 1960. 1970 and 1980deta.
vinyand health ccoidorl,gen-inirocso tal nopercur,-  body  cihu g                               od-tcry (percent) - lbor force in  itniog.  oorcio   maonfacturicg
and non disltrihutic  of popoletino, an  alluncng10   P.rct fI   unea                             ond electricity, esorad ga. as prcetago uf total Intor forco;
h-onhold leve; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 fats.                                                      1960, 1970 and 1980 dana.
Pe   aIaopl   f potei  Fgae  e              _dy i-Pol  c.tonr  uf pot capita         P_tcriia olt ip        ercost) - otal, male  and femalt-e        tiiaino
Oc-uPy   of foo.d 9pro day   So  noop11411y) of icd is deficd cu obcv.  Rn-atii~ty tote  at  -cpu-d  Ci ttu" sole, sod lesal  labcr force u
Icrmnc   e  oll c-u-ito  -osbcah.etd by Ut DAPuvid. foc  urndos                          pcroeenc             1oa, male eta female popolatie  of all og- respectively;
ulecn    f t0 gr-m  of total prten   e  day and 20 groan of animal eed                  1960 , 1970, sod 1980 duta.  These er  bone d an ILO'n ysrticipetioarotet
puis   puceo   ci sth 10 oas  uhnsld to atboul  ti-.  Thent stand-                             tofcigan-unurcaec  tin  npuletb1on. and lcng time t.ed.  A
ardc  r  l... r thac thour o:%Ef70gaofttl protein and275 gra o                       f          eeIt_ ee    r  fros mattenul ....rcee
acid   Proei  an on avr_          ortecud,Proosd by FAr In the Third                         OoomcOe,d_n   ano-  ai  cf popuo-ico  n,d-r 15 ond 60 ead oe
WorIa food S-rvo; 1961-h5. 197t ana 1977  dt.to the tota  .eh.  for"n.
Peocyt  proei  spply firo    'iani           f9~Loe -! Proi  unpyly of food dv-
r Ie ro    tneacd pultee in grasn perda;191-65. 1970 end 1977 done.                   INCOMEO DISTRtIBUTION
Child laun    -4lahlno(r chacoond) - Auou ..deaths Pe  th...aa in                              Prucattog  of Privu   Icome ohth lous  an d kind) - R.enive   yr6h
ag  gou Vy4 eae  to-hildroithnaerup  for mast dovelopioguon                                  ecn.rcot 20I pecn,Poores  70 p-rcnt , and pooet 40 Per..ont
trion dana. derivod iron  Ife. tablet; 1960, 1970 ued 1980 data,                               of h-ooehodish
HAnLTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GOUOPS
life foEc-ctny at Blurh  ueyo -. Average oosber cf yearn of lifr  -orniriog                    The follooiag eatiatno are  ory upproimate esue  of pon-ty 1.inv ..
otbrt;190  1970 end 1960 nca                                                             and nhnuld be  u-erponted with t..uideonbln ceution.
Inat   Rfralt   ate (per thocood) -Adn.-I deeths of infanta ondeC one year                   Eotimated AholuIte Povety Incom  Level (US$ Per nopite)-oheanrrs-
of  ,eg  pe.r thoonn Iline hicnbn  1,960. 1970 ed  9l Udate.                     .                  ltr poverty income let-1 In that Income leve  helve ebih a               Ii a
daeoto  aeOtr(ecn   ippit)-tctal, urba, and rural - Nm-                                      stl itbllnly adoqute diet plan essetia   non-cd  leqor    aIs not
bet of people(oa.  ucht, end rurel) 60th r-asc.hi sl oeos to cafe                              afodahle.
na,nt supl (incue  tree td eeface  carro  or an_crted hut  -onotaineted                      intimated Relative P-atery Ioo    Level (US$9 eec epite) -  rhen and rrl.l -
outr suh no thst trot pro-cted breholee, springo, and sa.uttery sunli) us                      Rsa-   rlcie  poverty inteme   Uleve!i  oo-t d ef averag  per -Pit
perrmentage  of the cenyctm   pouoin . I  an orb- enacaps                                       emos .bi  ' _Incom   ofthe coutr.   rh lvlIsderived frm  the lrar1
f_osto tor utenap-n  ictd ntmr  than, 200 ento  ts   o  a ho-ne ea  be                         level othb udju-eant far higher coot of livin  In aebsoac-e
consIdrd  as  Lbeing egbt  reasonble a-eo o.f  hthe  hoae.  Io cal   nInesintimtd Pepulation Relan Abeoluta Po.'r"Y tom   leelfeCcetl - ahe
Iee .abecoes  e1d impythtth           .oneif. an mebter  of the ho...hld                  aed rota].   - Pecet of PopulaItio    obnad  ua)sest   selr
d. nor have n  speed a disp-p-nineate pert of the dsp  Is fetching the                         poor.
family'  mee    as
N.uter of peoplo (total, urban   a  rrl    ee  byenrt  dispose  a
perreoteges ef their reapectie pepelattene. inereta disposal may inclade
the  elnu        a ldispsa . nm  or nitet .treummI ef nim   macte
an Cet -nae  hy  mtrhm    ystm   -r Ch. us  of pit              loni g a  sit-
tarslstie :periOhysitin - Popalatino divide.d by osterC of peatiniog physt-                                                           eS-min end Secsi ht I DC   iLisie
nines q ifie  fer a_ me.dical scheolt si-osity leve.                                                                           coomc   naysts ned  DtjchesNPso .tmt
Persla.s t   er - esisPeras  - Pepelttom  ditided by o,,he- of prectiaseg                                                                         Ilap 19hz
maeedfamal  grednate  asm.        sita   ase   rnio  sarmes and



31 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population:  22.3 million (mid-1981)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,790 (1981)
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                  Annual Growth Rates (2)
(million USC  at                                           (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                    Actual                                       c/        Projected
1980 c/          1975      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982-   1983        1984     1985      1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/         69,232              0.9       5.2      8.4       8.5       4.2       2.2      2.2      -1.0      -1.7       2.0      2.7       4.3
Agriculture                      8,516            -2.6       6.4       5.7      -5.4       5.4      0.0       1.0       5.0       0.0      2.0       2.0       2.0
Industry                        28,801              7.4      4.1       9.5       9.3      8.5       3.6       1.4      -2.7     -2.0        3.0      4.0       6.0
Services                        24,993              1.4      5.3       7.1      13.1     -2.0      -2.2       3.4      -1.0     -2.0        1.0      1.5       3.0
Consumption                       48,760             -3.3      0.0       9.8      13.0       3.8      0.6      -1.1      -0.7      -1.7       2.5       2.4      3.9
Gross investment                  23,218             10.1       3.6     17.4      -3.2      12.0     -3.2      -1.2      -6.0       0.0       3.0      3.2       4.O
Exports of GNFS                   14,053              1.1     10.4      -2.0       4.8       2.6      12.6      9.3      -5.7      -2.0       6.0      6.0       6.8
Imports of GNFS                   16,799            -1.3      -8.6      16.1       2.5      12.0     -9.7      -2.6    -10.8       -2.0      8.7       6.0       5.6
Gross mational savings            19,619             14.7     20.6       5.6      -3.1       3.4        5.8      -         -         -         -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 =100)              411           170      204       232       260       313      411          575       731       -         -        -        -
Exchange rate                         24.9           17.4     18.2      18.3      18.6      19.0     24.9        35.5      51.3      -         -        -        -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                      Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices) b/                                             (at constant 1972 prices)
1960     1970       1975      1980       1985      1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross Domestic Product a!       100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0                   5.9        6.5        5.7       0.5        4.2
Agriculture                    22.5      16.1       13.8     12.3       13.1       11.8                   3.3        2.9       2.4        2.0        2.0
Industry                       42.2      37.4      44.3      41.6       41.4       44.7                   6.3       8.3        7.0        0.3        5.9
Services                       29.0      38.1      33.1      36.1       35.7       33.6                   6.9        4.7       4.3        0.2        2.9
Consumption                      67.2      72.8       74.3      70.4      69.2       68.6                   6.5        6.9        5.4      -0.2        4.0
Gross investment                 36.5      32.3       33.5     30.5       29.0       29.0                   4.7        5.5        5.3      -0.9        4.1
Emports GNFS                     13.9      18.5       20.2     27.7       29.3       33.0                  10.2        6.7       5.7         1.5       4.1
Imports GNFS                     17.5      23.5       28.0     31.4       27.5       30.7                   9.8       6.7         2.5      -1.5        6.5
Gross national savings             32.6      29.6       25.6      28.3      29.5       29.9                   5.3        6.2        6.5         -         -
As % of GDP
1960     1970       1975      1980      1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                   27.9      33.1       36.8      34.0      32.3
Total expenditures               24.1      33.2       37.2      34.6      31.6
Surplus (-) or deficit ()         3.3       0.1       -0.4      0.6        0.6
Foreign financing                 0.0       0.0       -0.4      0.0        0.0
1960-70  1970-75   1975-80  1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate ()                6.1       6.7        5.7       0.1       4.2
GNP per capita growth rate        5.0       6.6        4.7      -0.8        3.3
ICOR                              5.4       4.6        5.8     35.3         7.0
Import elasticity                 1.6       1.0        0.5     -3.0        1.5
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add up to total due to exclusion of net indirect tames and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c/ Estimate.
EMENA IC
April 19, 1983



- 32 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 22.3 million (mid-1981)
GNP Per Capita.  US32,790 (1981)
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                       Annual Growth Rates (t)
(=illion US3 at                                                 (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                      current prices)                                       Actual                                              e/                   Projected
(1981)             1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980     1981     1982    983       1984     1985     1990
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                  10,204              0.0        14.5       -5.3         1.0        4.4        11.2      8.2    -4.1       0.5      6.0      6.0     7.0
Primary a/                         1,709              -3.1       16.6         3.9         1.5        5.6         2.5    -1.7       2.7     0.5      6.0       6.0     7.0
Manufactures b/                    8,495               0.4       13.9        -8.8         0.8        4.0        14.1     12.1    -5.8      0.5      6.0       6.0     7.0
Merchandise Imports                  14,528             -2.8        -6.5       18.5         3.8       18.8       -13.9   -11.7   -10.2   -0.3          8.6      6.0     5.5
Food                                 888            -40.9        45.8         4.3      -24.2        51.9       -3.1   -15.0   -15.0        0.0      5.0      6.0     4.5
Petroleum  c/                      3,762              -5.0       10.1        12.0       11.6        10.6       -8.2    -9.4        0.0     3.0      5.0       6.0     7.0
Machinery and equipment            3,756              22.3       -8.8        17.8         7.1       22.4      -23.1   -22.5    -6.1   -5.4          9.4       6.0     6.0
Others                             6,123            -11.9       -12.7        22.1        4.4        12.8       -9.3    -6.4   -13.0        2.0      9.4       6.0     5.1
PRICES (1972 = 100)
Export price index                      316            172         180        202         220        253         301      316      331     354      383       411     550
Import price index                      352            184        189         216        226         269        319       352      360    363       384      407      560
Terms of trade index                     89.7           93.5        95.2       93.5        97.3       94.0        94.4    89.7      91.9   97.6    99.6   101.0   98.3
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (2)                                          Average Annual Increase  (2)
(at current prices) d/                                                   (at constant 1972 prices)
1960       1970        1975       1980        1985       1990                  1960-70    1970-75    1975-80  1980-85    1985-SC
Exports                                       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0                     8.1        5.7         5.1       2.5       6.8
Primary a/                                  49.6        29.4        19.5       22.0        21.0       21.0                     -         -1.3        6.0        2.7       6.8
Manufactures b/                              50.4       70.6       80.5        78.0        79.0       79.0                     -          8.1        4.7        2.6       6.8
Imports                                       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0                    9.0         7.4        4.1       -1.6       6.5
Food                                         9.1         7.2         5.5        7.2         8.5        8.0                     -          5.0       14.q      -4.0        5.4
Petroleum c/                                  5.4        4.8        12.3       23.6         8.7        8.6                     -          8.2        7.2        1.3       6.1
Machinery and equipment                      36.8       33.2   -   33.9        28.0        29.2       29.7                      -         9.4         3.1      -3.6       6.4
Others                                      48.7        54.8       48.3        41.2        53.6       53.6                     -          6.0        3.5       -0.7       6.5
Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with Capital               Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (2)               Developing Countries (2)           Surplus Oil Exporters (%)          Centrally Planned Ecosnoies (2)
1965     1970      1975       1981      1965    1970      1975      1981   1965    1970       1975     1981       1965    1970      1975     1981
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                  40.1     53.3       34.0      31.0       17.4     13.6    16.8    18.3    0.4          0.7      2.1     11.8      42.1     32.4    47.1    48.9
Primary                61.0    70.2       54.0        -         9.1      8.2       8.9      -       0.2      0.2      1.9      -         29.7    21.4    35.2        -
Manufactures           24.0    41.9       26.0        -        23.8      17.2    20.0       -       0.6      1.0      2.1       -   -    51.6    39.9    51.9         -
Imports                  55.3    66.1       59.1       50.1      16.0    12.7    15.7    15.3    0.1           0.1      0.6       9.1      28.6     21.1    24.6    30.7
a!  SITC 0-4
bl SITC 5-8
S/ SITC 3 includes lubricants. coal and electricity.
.1 Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
e/ Estimates.
EMENA IC
April 19, 1983



-33-
ANNEX I
Page 6 oF 
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DENT
Cost millions)
Pplto: 22.3 million (mid-1981)
GNP Per CopiEs: US$2,790 (1981)
Indicator                                                                             Actual                                                                                Proiecte
1970        1975          1976         1977         1978        1979  -    1980   1981              1982 o          1983          .198        1985_         1990
BALIANCE OP PAYMENTS
Lopooco of goods and sevcs3,037                                   8,012        9,142       10,186       12,069        14,276       18,300 20,007       19,677          20,976        33,585       26,660       435, 7377
o.f  h64h:  Merhandise fPodb.                      1,679        4,073        4,893        5.191         5,809        6,794        9,978 10,204       10,247           11,019       12,615       14,374       26,728
lports of goods and ..sevio.s                        3,381        9,013        8,977       11,932       13,352        17,937       20,392 20,954       20,140          70,924       33,780        76,119       45,192
ci  obich:.  Meohnodise o.i.f.                     2,874        7,697        7,367         9,P89      10,439       14,019       13.063  14,328       13,336          17,397       15,397        17,295       32,515
Not t-acfio-                                              -            -            -            -            -             -            -       -           -               -             -            --
Gorrot acoce .ha ..c                                    -348      -1,001           163       -1,346       -1,283       -3,661       -2,392    -947         -463               52        -195           341          386
Peceto direct invetment                                   -            -            -            -            -                          -       -           -               -             -            -            -
6117 loono toes)                         ~~~~        ~ ~~196  931  1,094       1,437        1,394        1,009        2,410      838         130           1,429          662         -369          834
O ffiOl                                                19         246          213            61          128          131           59  1,383        1,053           1,549        2,698         1,956          891
Priocce                                              178          705          881        1,37 1       1,3266          83 8      2,311   -545          -930            -120       -2,936       -2,335           -99
34thc  op~teol 3/38                                                  135          119           45          541        1, 487         652      347       -679               97            10         119         -697
Oha-go insroa124                                                      83      -1,378          -131         -653        1,163         -773    -238       1,013          -1,000          -477         -390         -751
Icter-tio-Icsevso                                      276        1,582        3,880         3,011       3,663         2,498        3,273  2,687        1,675           3,675         3,1152       3,3432       6,728
00 chich:   Cold lofficia1 nalsanioml                 51            62           62           64           69           33           76      78          78               78           75           78           70
Reosroso   monobsth  imports                              1.0          2.0          3.6          3.0          3.3           1.7          1.9     1.5         1.5              1.5          1.6          1.6          1.8
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Grossdiohobse-entn                                      611        1,647        2,096        2,665        2,800        3,438        4,156  2,770        2,044            4,116        3,389        3,676        7,636
Co...esnioa  loans1..                                 63          134          134           159           29           13           20      12           -----
DAC                                                  0           71           62           66           11           11            19       8           -----
OPEC                                                 -            -            -            -.                                                                                                        
IDA                                                  -            -            -             -            ---                               -           -
other                                              675           63           32           93           18             2            5       4           ----
Non-conce..sio .. Iboos                              573        2,037        1,962        2,306        2,631        2,435        4,136  2,758         2,044           4,116        3,369        2,678        3,626
Off-cia   snportc..edits                            39          203          263           75           34           60           85  1,375        1,076            1,350          511          741          440
lORD                                                33          154          119          133          180          294          258      338        383              969          577          738          106
Ocercl:I-        eal-                                             -            -            -             6           36           36      18           -                -            -            -            -
p i' t.                              ~~~~~~~492  1,680        1,560        2,299        2,409        3,047        3,757  1,069           689           7,277        2,000        3,075        7,7000
Yogoso-  export oredit (ret)                           1-331        1-882)      1-1001       (1-833       1-1067       1-125)       1-5003  1-193)      (-3007           (-3207       (-7407       (-131)       1-790)
Dlobt o-ctotdiog ond
disb--sd i                                       2,055        5,820        3,172        8,956       11,117       13,608       15,446 16,156       16,287           17,706       18,376       10,108       23,953
Official                                           654        2,327        3,792        3,585        3,610        3,662        4,552   5,019       6,069            7,818       10,315       12,272       33,158
Ocivute                                         1,199         3,493       4,385         1,471        3,303        9,946       10,894 11,138       15,218           10,098        8,083        3,837         -205
Oodinbuc-d dsbn                                      948        2,971        2,525        6,438        3,713        3,817        2,542   1,947        1,538           1,919         1,481       1,608           801
Dobtner-cceo
Total  -oriceP   ..omenes503                                    1,442        3,4.40       1,595        1,886        2,125        2,441  3,690         3,807           4,396        4,368        3,033         5,399
Ioneret if                                         128          069          302          363          575          831          995  1,757        1,893            1,210        1,941        2,089        3,837
PoYnntn cs U cep-cos                                   16.6         18.0         11.8         13.6         14.9         14.9         13.3    16.4        19.3             21.0         18.9         18.9         13.3
Averge i.tec-t -sL  one   I..nn (2                        7.1          8.1          7.1          7.4          7.3          8.0           8.4    12.7        11.9            11.8          13.9         17.9         14.0
Of ftial                                                7.0          8.3          7.0          7.3          7,7          -            -       -           -                                            
Privat                                                  3.5          7.5          8.6          9.3          8.7          9.5          -       -           -                                            
A-  sa.tortoy of te  I.o.      (yars                16.5         15.2         18.3         15.4          15.1         10.8         10.1    15.1        11.2              7.4         10.3         10.3          9.0
Official                                               18.5         16,5         10.8         15.9         11.1          -            -
p--t.                                   ~~~~10.9  .10.9             5.7          7.5          -            --                   -           ----
0/  Eatimotes
If clodnn cot use of I11F crdit Od-oisEs less reP-ot-tn), se                            h- o  sot-v-c  credit ..dcane   in hilontr-I
of lc ig gros   te-ignossots  of   - -omeiol hoske.
5/Eotr-sl bo-oing reporte  in ebs historical balasce of psy.ssts  is not conistont cith ceterea  debt does.                                                                   tME8A IC
efDebt novi-c cuelding a-scictiec  and imtm-t on .op-t crdit rees.dcd by YuolAa pril 19, 1983
IfAft-c 1981, istlud-   interet pa5vaen.  on us f IMPFeoues



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)           Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
Forty Loans fully disbursed                                       1,339.46
916    1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline           59.4      8.05
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      0.22
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage             45.0      0.07
1360    1977   Management Organization        Multipurpose
"Metohija"                    Water                 54.0    31.73
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries            26.0     2.60
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture
Industries           24.0      3.11
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission          80.0    11.06
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0      7.74
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              100.0     3.01
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina           Hydro Power            73.0    11.48
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0      7.90
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0      1.44
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0      3.90
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit                20.0      1.53
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0      0.71



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank Undisbursed
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                     Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       31.20
1678    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Mlontenegro,
Vojvodina and Heze-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                 148.0       41.95
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       33.14
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       33.63
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0        7.61
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       56.11
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                 125.0       76.42
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0       46.55
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0       11.14
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka             Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0       19.31
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka                Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit               10.0        2.80
1951    1980   Investbanka                    Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0        74.63
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                34.0       26.22
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0        83.22
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture           80.0       67.04
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                       Kosovo Water Supply  41.0        29.22



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purgose            Bank  Undisbursed
2132    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial         33.0       32.51
Credit
2133    1982   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Sixth Industrial      33.0       32.51
Credit
2136    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture              35.0       34.48
2161 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6           34.60
2233 1/ 1983   Regional Work Organiza-        Tuzla Water Supply   30.0        30.00
tion KOMPRED                and Environment
Total (less cancellation)                               3,214.46    898.84
of which has been repaid                                  597.21
Total now outstanding                                   2,617.25
Amount sold                              9.2
of which: Amount repaid                9.2
Total now held by Bank                                  2,617.25
Total undisbursed                                                    898.84
1/ Signed but not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                         Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation         -       2.0     2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                         Industry          12.4     0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry              9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry          16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   70.9       -       70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant      10.0      -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel              50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing         4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism            21.0     -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                          Machinery          18.7     -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises       30.3      -      30.3
1982   Igalo                                 Physical
Medicine
Center           16.5    -        16.5
1982   Industrija za automobilski            Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto)        & Accessories    11.3    -          11.3
Total Gross Commitments                                315.7    11.8   327.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             173.5      5.2   178.7
Total commitments held by IFC                          142.2      6.6   148.8
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                           38.7      0.8    39.5



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTF IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1983)
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles,
organizational change, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and
the Bank eventually agreed to divide the loan into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Vojvodina
and Serbia are now under construction. The only outstanding major contract
still to be awarded before the current closing date concerns Butangas'
telecommunications and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
systems. Depending upon early contracting of the SCADA system a further and
final extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982; (account
left open).
After some initial delays, the project is progressing
satisfactorily. Major works still to be executed are the Vrutci dam and
water supply distribution and sewerage network in Titovo Uzice. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1982 (after two extensions) but the account remains
open to allow disbursement in respect of expenditures under contracts signed
before the closing date.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982; (account left open).
Construction works are proceeding well and the project is
substantially completed. Tne loan was closed on 12/31/82 but account remains
open to allow final disbursements.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 Million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progress is about three years behind schedule
and the Closing Date has been postponed initially by one year to
December 31, 1983. Contract for ICB procurement of G.R.P. pipes was signed
on January 22, 1983; however, it was necessary to reduce the scope of supply
to conform to the tender.  Modified contract is expected to be validated on
April 8, 1983. The single remaining ICB contract for automatic regulation
equipment is expected by mid-May, 1983. Based on current progress, all LCB
contracts should be awarded by July 31, 1983. Irrigation system for about
1,200 ha will be ready by 1984. Completion of the total system is now
planned for December 31, 1984, which will fit in with current plans for land
consolidation.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
Miarch 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is substantially completed. The winery operations are
completed and operational. Farm center construction is complete and farm
roads are nearing completion. The completed irrigation system is supplying
2,014 ha under vineyards and orchards. The loan is 90% disbursed. Due to
high rates of local inflation costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by
about 60%.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-industry facilities have now come into force and
four of the seven sub-projects are completed. Contracts have been signed
and approved for the remaining sub-projects. All individual sector funds
have been completed and disbursed.  The loan is 87% disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 Million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date; January 31, 1978; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed with a delay of about two
years and the closing date has been extended by six months to 6/30/83, in
order to allow full loan disbursement. The loan is practically fully
committed. The Borrowers have been advised that there would be no further
extension of the closing date.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 Million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: August 31, 1983.
The loan is fully committed and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 90% of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Government's recent stabilization measures
however, exceptional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
consequently the closing date has been extended a second time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to disburse against purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closin Date. June 30, 1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total US$ 97.0 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Remedial actions will be agreed upon in the context of the
proposed loan for a Sixth Railway Project.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 Million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since December 1982. Part B, originally not financed
by the Bank (Mostar Dam), however, has been delayed by problems with the
site geology and funding. The technical problems have been solved and the
detailed designs of the-Mostar dam and power plant are now available.
Regarding the funding, a supplemental Bank loan is now under consideration.
If action on this loan is taken before June 30, 1983, Part B of the Project
could be completed by December 1987, assuming that funding for the local
costs is forthcoming.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates due to late approval of two large "special subprojects" and
changes in the originally approved equipment lists and often incomplete
withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit Department of the borrower
Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) continues to be weak, especially in terms of
proper project appraisal and supervision. This matter is being focussed
upon through frequent supervision. Also, institutional improvements will be
a major component of a proposed new loan to KBP.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 Million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimates. The closing dates for all
three Loans have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1983.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 Million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982; (account left open).
Project construction has been substantially completed. The loan
account has been kept open in order to enable disbursements against
contracts for which commitments have been made prior to September 30, 1982.
$81.29 million disbursed as of March 31, 1983.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The financing
problem and inadequate progress in the individual sector has been resolved
and specific action programs have been agreed with the borrower and the
implementing agency. As of March 31, 1983 about 93 percent of the loan has
been committed and 45 percent disbursed. Given the stage of overall project
implementation, the most likely completion date would be December 1984.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date; September 30, 1984.
Project now faces delays of about 15 months because of reduced
road expenditures now planned by Government. Revised investment plans
prepared by all participants. All links are now committed. Works will now
extend to early 1984 in Kosovo, Vojvodina, Bosnia and Macedonia. Only
FMontenegro has completed its program according to the original schedule.
Loan closing date has been postponed to September 30, 1984.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 Million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Project management problems and
inadequate funds together with import restrictions had caused procurement
delays. Revised financing plan with assurance of funds has now been
prepared and import restrictions for the project have eased. Studies on
sub-surface drainage had a delayed start. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing. The loan
is 35X disbursed.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 Million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is currently about two years behind schedule,
primarily due to delays in preparation of designs and contract documents for
civil works stemming from more rigid design criteria to withstand
earthquakes and from the lack of adequately experienced project and support
staff. Bank missions have repeatedly emphasized need to strengthen staf,
and port management has recently taken remedial action. Contracts for civil
works are in progress and should be completed by about May/June 1983 or
shortly thereafter. Bids for workshop equipment and for new tugboats have
been received and some contracts awarded by PBWO. Deliveries of equipment
and tugboats in early 1984 appears likely. The original closing date of
December 31, 1982 has been postponed until June 30, 1984 to allow for longer
than anticipated delivery period for remaining Bank financed items.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways; US$14 Million Loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $6.39 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as a result of complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel.  The Borrower's request for an
extension of the closing date is under consideration.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date; March 31, 1985.
Progress in commitments in the social sector is very slow. In the
individual sector, 93% of funds are committed, while in the social sector
only 41% is committed. The agroindustry subprojects have still to be
*            identified in some Republics; and a few approved processing facilities are
behind schedule. The progress in physical implementation in the individual
sector is good. The loan is about 35% disbursed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank. The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
reviewed. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays arising from shortage of local
funds, project completion will be about 18 months behind schedule. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to June 30, 1984. Further
extension of one year might be necessary and would be considered on the
basis of project implementation in accordance with a revised schedule.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984.
Loans 1910 (PBS) and 1912 (SBS) are being committed rapidly, while
commitments under Loans 1909 (KBP) and 1911 (IBT) are behind schedule.
Commitments by KBP and IBT started late due to external factors, but have
picked up rapidly and is expected to be completed within the currently
stipulated commitment period.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II:  $87 Million Loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1986.
Eighty-five percent of the loan proceeds are committed.
Withdrawals have commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is
due to procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds. This has been taken
up with the Government in order to resolve the issue. As for the physical
implementation of the Project, progress is very good. In the individual
sector, about 800 livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards
are expected to be completed by the end of 1982, while 11 out of 14
agro-industrial facilities are under construction, of which 5 are likely to
become operational in the Spring 1983. Progress under the irrigation
component continues to be unsatisfactory. Action plans for support services
approved by the Bank and implementation is underway.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million Loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
After a slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
(SS&TT) equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Upon request of
the Borrower the Bank has agreed to a reallocation of loan funds which will
become surplus because of favorable results on the SS&TT contract and the
devaluation of the Dinar. The surplus funds will finance the acquisition of
four diesel motor trains for which a contract will shortly be awarded.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 Million Loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
About 25% of the Loan amount has yet to be committed and the
Borrower, KBP, is behind schedule in hiring requisite support staff. Six
agro-industry investors have signed construction and equipment installation
contracts and work has started. The investors for two other agro-industry
subprojects expect within the month to finalize contracts according to the
bid evaluation reports, after considerable delays due to the investors'
requests to change processing capacity or product line. The four remaining
agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into consideration
changes in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of 2,000 ha of
plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to seven social
sector investors covering about 1,600 ha for vineyards and orchards. For
the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans for 300 ha of
vineyards. For the Groundwater studies component, the consultants have
completed the detailed terms of reference and cost estimates and started
work on hydro-geologic investigations.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 Million Loan of
July 23, 1981; Effective Date: January 6, 1982; Closing Date;
June 30, 1987.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule. The social sector vineyard (1,450 ha) and
orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store component (15,000 tons)
were fully committed. Individual sector investments are also ahead of
schedule. Although nearly all feasibility studies have been completed, the
small-scale irrigation component is behind schedule due to SBS appraisal
bottlenecks and to problems with generating the 20% local contribution to be
provided by the Communes.



- 45 
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply; $41 Million Loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date: April 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Overall construction
progress has been good and the quality of construction is high. Contracts
for all major components of the project have been awarded. Due to several
contributory factors revised total project cost has been reduced which will
result in a savings of US$15.0 million from the Bank loan.
Loans 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Project: $33 Million Loan
Each Loans of August 31, 1982; Effective Date: November 23, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 28, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily. $0.98 million disbursed as of
March 31, 1983.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural Development Project: $35 Million Loan
of hay 4, 1982; Effective Date:   November 23, 1982; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
This loan became effective on November 23, 1982. Bid Evaluation
Reports for all six agro-industrial processing facilities have been cleared
by the Bank. About 40% of the Contract Documents have been received while
others are awaited by end April 1983. Construction of about 60% of the
Popovo Polje Irrigation Project has been completed.
Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage: $34.6 Million Loan of May 27, 1982;
Effective Date: April 29, 1983; Closing Date: September 30,
1987.
The loan is not yet effective. The new Date of Effectiveness is
set for April 29, 1983. Federal ratification and legal opinion are awaited.
Loan 2233 Tuzla Water Supply and Sewerage: $30.0 Million Loan of
January 25, 1983; Effective Date: June 10, 1983; Closing Date;
December 31, 1988
The Project was appraised in March/April 1982. Loan documents
were signed on February 10, 1983. The loan is not yet effective.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first presented to the Bank                            February 1980
(b) Time taken by IED to prepare project                           24 months
(c) Agency which prepared the project                              Kosovo
Institute for
Economic Development (IED)
with assistance of FAO/CP.
(d) First Bank mission to review project                           July 1980
(e) Departure of appraisal mission                                 May 1982
(f) Completion of negotiations                                     February 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness                                  September 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Retroactive financing of foreign expenditures for rural roads and
agri-service centers of up to $6.0 million is recommended to permit early
start on project to continue (para. 66).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Borrower would ensure that all farmers would through cash or
credit have access to fertilizer, whether or not 'associated'
with a cooperative (para. 51).
(b) Borrower to provide to the Bank by November 30th each year, a
financing plan for those investments to be financed in the
following year (para. 58).
(c) The Federation of Cooperatives would be strengthened through
employment of 13 additional extension and subject matter
specialists, the costs of which will be covered by the
Government of Kosovo (para. 54).



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Borrower would employ agricultural credit officers and an
international agricultural credit consultant (para. 52).
(e) The Borrower would by October 31, 1983 employ a full-time
training officer who would annually prepare a staff training
program for review by the Bank (para. 52).
(f) The Borrower would as a condition of loan effectiveness employ
a development banking advisor (para. 47).
(g) KBP would engage the Institute for Economic Development to
implement monitoring and evaluation systems satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 57).
(h) The Federation of Cooperatives would engage the Institute for
Economic Development to monitor and evaluate the efforts of
Government producer prices (para. 57).
(i) The sub-borrowers and implementing organizations would as a
condition of effectiveness sign a self-management agreement
(para. 45).
(j) As a condition for providing sub-loans for rural roads, the
Borrower, in order to ensure adequate road maintenance, will
require that the commune enter into an agreement with the
Borrower (para. 53).
(k) The Borrower will establish a Revolving Fund, as a special
account, as a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 67).



IBr<D 16656
AUS7RIA     .                        i                                                                                            210                  SEPT 'I SE 1"&
| f \ ~~~~~~~HUNGARY                                                                         e .a a o: ridd y. Vo ak  t vcs wv fo, th, c
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il  rll                                       T-  i 
&                                                                                                 .......   3\   vc%ito!    .l
A I               \ .-- P\                                \                             1                '.MAN .A
|~~~ 1. 1" -I tr                              b       c -                      Leae)/
\4RCGOVINA\                  -       --
-f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
>   Djako  /; u  < ,     :        S  a Rekai                     W      4              >                                     /   6~~~~~~~~~~S 
lnj~~~~~~~~, i,g -ons
'~~M\ >P I R B-                                            A          '-n k ~~ 
MONTENEGRO    NTE  
Os~~~~~~~~st
.        saLeposaviTcN
~~~~~~;TfY             MA FSS/Ae( ( 9 -. 
A l              B  A             B I A    ,A               -2v ,a .Mltr                                      ,-
I       Dwakovoc                                 Pr~lu~j lina  Devo
0  ~~~~~~~~e                                             
Koscvsko 
0                                                                      TG Kam a men ca
De~ioni                 Vl               Ki jevo                         aop  rSeo            oevo*
-4230i                                                      Ma                                                                   4oKPJ2'30 
DKormili one
SuvaReka~~~~~~~~~~loa
r   Droac a                                                                   A      E     O     I
j                                             r                                        Y  U  G  O  S  L  A  V  I A~istrr   Q
ALBAN iA                                  .rKOSOVC)REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
\ ,--7'                                            PROJECT
i                          5~~~~~~~~-S-CSly 5o0c8
y                                                    _--Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sconda-y rands
ai ways
I3 iVa r, riiwav sas.ions
Kiina    Communes included   +c project
®     Co7, une Headuanters
.orc ure RC3ur!es
... . ... A  -noroc-s r rovince   u c"dary
Rerjc Cr o '-rares
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'lc -no-rnaoni boandory 
o \  0L  10          20        35         40l
K\I.OMETERS
20') 30        j                              !'CC'                                        2) 3D'0



