0OTFV,IAL
DOCU     TS LOAN NUMBER 2306 YU
Agreement on Obligations of the Socialist
Autonomous Province of Kosovo in Connection
with the Kosovo Regional Development
Project (Kosovo Agreement)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIALIST AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF KOSOVO
Dated                           , 9>)  1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2306 YU
AGREEMENT ON OBLIGATIONS OF THE SOCIALIST
AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF KOSOVO IN CONNECTION
WITH THE KOSOVO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KOSOVO AGREEMENT)
AGREEMENT, dated            ~  >            , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SOCIALIST AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF
KOSOVO (hereinafter called KOSOVO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina (herein-
after called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-nine million dollars ($79,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but on condition that
Kosovo agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a project agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Project Agreement) between the Bank and Zadruzni
Savez Kosova (hereinafter called the Federation), the Federation
has undertaken to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B,
C and D (1) of the Project and to carry out Part D (2) of the
Project, on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Kosovo, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Project Agreement
with the Federation, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kosovo covenants it will not take, or
cause or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower or the Federation
of their respective obligations in the Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreement; and that, within the limits of its constitu-
tional or statutory powers, Kosovo will take or cause to be taken
all appropriate action required for the carrying out of the
Project and for enabling the Borrower and the Federation to
perform their respective obligations under any such Agreement.
(b) Kosovo shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the  performance   by  Kosovo  of  its   obligations  under   this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. In order to provide regional coordination and
policy guidance and to approve annual implementation plans for
the Project, Kosovo shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
until the Closing Date, the Project Coordinating Committee and
Project Commune Coordinating Committees, with membership and
functions acceptable Lo the Bank.
Section 2.03. By October 31, 1983 or such other date as may
be agreed by the Bank, Kosovo shall cause its Bureau for Geodetic
and Photogrammetric Work to furnish to the Bank the feasibility
studies undertaken by such Bureau in connection with land con-
solidation in the Communes of Vucitrn and Glogovac.
Section 2.04. By September 30, 1983, or such other date as
may be agreed by the Bank, Kosovo shall establish and maintain,
or cause to be established and maintained, until the Closing
Date, a Media Strategy Committee with membership and functions
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.05. Kosovo shall provide:
(a) to the Federation, promptly as needed, the funds
required for (i) the salaries and operating costs related to
employment by the Federation of the specialists in its Project


﻿-3-
Unit referred to in paragraph 3 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, and (ii) the price-monitoring arrangements under
Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement; and
(b) to the COAL Hydro-Economy, Kosovo-Pristina, promptly
as needed, the funds required for the employment, for a period of
3 years each, of a qualified and experienced hydrologist, civil
engineer and economist.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Kosovo thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance vith its
terms before the date referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly so notify Kosovo.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-4-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Kosovo:
Executive Council of the Assembly
Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
Mar'sala Tita 2
38000 Pristina
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                       Telex:
Provincial Executive Council        18185 YU IVKOS
PrisItina
Yugoslavia
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Kosovo may be taken or executed by its
Secretary of Finance or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names ri -fie District


﻿-5-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIALIST AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE OF KOSOVO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of    M  , 198
FOR SECRETARY


