OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER 2306 YU
Loan Agreement
(Kosovo Regional Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2306 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              _-2 <4        , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
(hereinafter called the Borrower), acting pursuant to its self-
management agreement and statutes both on its own behalf and on
behalf of its Basic Banks (as this term is hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. (herein-
after called the Guarantor) in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges;
(C) the Federation (as this term is hereinafter defined)
will assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B, C and D (1)
of the Project, and will carry out Part D (2) of the Project for
which the Borrower will make available to the Federation a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided:
(D) the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo (herein-
after called Kosovo) has entered into an Agreement on Obligations
of the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo In Connection with
the Kosovo Regional Development Project (hereinafter called
Kosovo Agreement) with the Bank, of even date herewith, and has
agreed to undertake the obligations in respect of the Project as
set forth therein;
(E) the Borrower, the Federation, Kosovo, the Project
Communes, the   Social  Sector  Sub-borrowers, the   Faculty of
Agriculture, IED, COAL Hydro-Economy, Kosovo-Pristina (as these
latter five terms are hereinafter defined), and all other
organizations involved in carrying out the Project will enter
into a self-management agreement known as the Self-Management
Agreement on Mutual Rights, Obligations and Responsibilities for
the Implementation of the Kosovo Regional Development Project,
for the purpose of defining their 2esponsibilities and relation-
ships under the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon


﻿-2-
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Federation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modificLtion thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely, that the following sub-paragraph (d) is
added to Section 3.04 of the General Conditions:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or- in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower dated January 31, 1978,
as may be amended from time to time.
(b)  "Statutes of the Borrower" means the statutes of the
Borrower dated May 28, 1973, as may be amended from time to time.
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of its own funds (including resources provided
by the Federal Fund for accelerating the development of the less
developed Republics and regions) and out of the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance with Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(d)  "Sub-borrower" means a beneficiary of a Sub-loan who
may be either: (i) an Individual Sub-borrower who is an individ-
ual farmer borrowing funds from his own Organization of Agricul-
turalists which it has borrowed from the Borrower; or (ii) one of
the Social Sector Sub-borrowers.
(e)  "Federation" means Zadruzni Savez Kosova (the Federa-
tion of Cooperatives of Kosovo), established and operating pur-
suant to a Self-Management Agreement on Association in the
Federation, dated January 13, 1977, as may be amended from time
to time (hereinafter called the Self-Management Agreement of the
Federation), and Statutes, dated December 23, 1980, as may be
amended from time to time (hereinafter called the Statutes of the
Federation).
(f) "Organization of Agriculturalists" means an association
of individual farmers, namely, an agricultural cooperative, basic
cooperative organization, or basic organization of cooperants,
which has associated in the Federation under Article 75 of
Kosovo's Law Gi Association of Agriculturalists of July 15, 1980,
published in Kosovo's Official Gazette No. 28 of July 18, 1980;
and, except for the purposes of Part C of the Project, means only
those Organizations of Agriculturalists located in the Project
Communes.
(g)  "Social Sector Sub-borrowers" means the beneficiaries
of the Sub-loans provided for in Parts A (1) and (2), and B of
the Project, namely, the Bistrica Basic Organization of Asso-
ciated Labor, PIRO Agro-Morava, Working Organization "Veteri-
nakos"-Pristina (Veterinakos), RTV Pri'tina and the Regional
radio stations, the Kosovo Bureau for Geodetic and Photogram-
metric Work, the Organizations of Agriculturalists, and        the
designated Project Commune organizations.
(h)  "Project  Communes"   means  the  Communes  of   Decani,
Dragas, Glogovac, Isotok, Klina, Liplian, Orahovac, Podujevo,
Srbica, Suva Reka, Vitina and Vuitrn in Kosovo, collectively,
and "Project Commune" means any of the Project Communes.
(i)  "Investment Project" means a specific investment pro-
ject to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds
of a Sub-loan.
(j)  "Faculty of Agriculture" means the Faculty of Agricul-
ture at the University of Kosovo-Pri tina.


﻿(k) "IED" means the Institute of Economic Development,
established as a working organization of the Composite Organiza-
tion of Associated Labor Agro-Industrial Kombinat Agrokosova by
its Assembly in 1976.
(1) "COAL    Hydro-Economy,   Kosovo-Pristina"  means    the
Composite Organization of Xssociated Labor Hydro-Economy, Kosovo-
Pristina.
(m) "Statement of Operations and Policies" means the state-
ment of lending and investment operations and policies for the
Project set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such state-
ment may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of
the Bank.
(n) "Dinars" and the letters "Din" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(o) "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in paragraph (5) of Article 281 of the
Guarantor's Constitution.
(p)  "Basic Bank" means any bank which is, or shall become,
a party to the Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower, pur-
suant to the pertinent provisions thereof.
(q)  "Project Agreement"' means the agreement between the
Bank and the Federation of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreement, supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(r)  "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-nine million dollars ($79,000,000).


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loaa may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank:
(i) for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for disbursements required to be made) by
the Borrower under Sub-loans in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A, B, C and D (2) of the Project and to be
financed under the Loan Agreement pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and in
re;spect of interest and other charges on the Loan;
and
(ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Part D (1)
of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open
and thereafter maintain a special account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.    Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, and subject to the provisions of paragraph I.A.3 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, no Sub-loan under Parts A (1) and
(2) and B and no Sub-loan under Part A (3) of the Project shall
be  approved   after  June   30,  1986  and  December   31,  1987,
respectively.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project


﻿- 6 -
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to five hundred eighty-eight thousand eighty-nie
dollars ($588,089).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate for any Interest Period commencing in 1982 shall be
11.43% per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-7-
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred     to in   (iii)  (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1.985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Sections 2.02 (a) (i)
and 2.05 hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Column 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such
Schedule 3 shall be amended from time to time by the Bank to the
extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to
Sub-loans which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals
from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this
Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant
to Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made
by the Borrower under Section 2.10 of this Agreement; provided
that any such amendments to the amortization schedule permitted
hereunder shall not authorize repayments of the principal amount
of the Loan beyond the latest repayment date set forth in Column
1 of such Schedule 3. Repayments due hereunder shall be made on
May 1 and November 1 in each year. Such amendments of Column 1 of
said Schedule 3 shall include amendments to the table of premiums
on prepayments, if necessary.
(b)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date hereof; and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate


﻿-8-
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
(d) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (ii) hereof in accor-
dance with the amortization schedule set forth in Column 2 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan e,r any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be -old, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of   for value   by the Borrower, the Borrower shall
promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next
following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or
part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section,
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C and
D (1) of the Project with the assistance of the Federation, and
shall assist the Federation in carrying out Part D (2) of the
Project with due ciligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, technical, administrative and financial
policies and practices, and in accordance with the Statement of


﻿-9-
Operations and Policies, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, r -mptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resoL --es required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carryingout
Part D (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ an
agricultural credit and a development banking consultant whose
qualifications, experience and terms and condition. of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan by the Borrower will be
made on financial terms and conditions consistent with the State-
ment of Operations and Policies whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Sub-borrower or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any
Sub-loan under Part A or B of the Project, the right of the
Borrower to:
(i) require    the  Sub-borrower   to  carry   out   its
Investment Project and to operate the facilities
constructed thereunder with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
agricultural,    technical,   administrative    and
financial policies and practices and to maintain
adequate records;
(ii) require   that  (A) the works and      goods  to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (B) such works and goods shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, buildings, property,
equipment   and  construction   included   in   the
Invcstment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;


﻿- 10 -
(iv) require that: (A) the Sub-borrower shall take out
and  maintain   with  responsible  insurers   such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with appropriate business
practice; (B) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Sub-borrower to
replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Sub-borrower;
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower
to -the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower
and, in appropriate cases, to premature the Sub-
loan; and
(vii) require any of the Social Sector Sub-borrowers:
(A) to have its' accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied by the Social
Accounting  Service   or  another  competent   and
experienced independent accounting organization;
(B) to furnish to the Borrower as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, certified copies
of its financial statements for each such year as
so audited and the report of such audit; and (C)
to furnish to the Borrower such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Sub-borrower as the Borrower shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, in relation to
each Investment Project, in such manner as to: (i) protect the


﻿- 11 -
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and each Investment Project (including the cost thereof,
the amount and sources of financing provided by the Borrower,
disbursements, repayments, interest and other charges on such
financing, including the Sub-loan therefor); and (b) furnish to
the Bank semi-annual reports on the implementation of all aspects
of the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request and within 45 days of tie close of the six-month period
concerned.
Section 3,.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, its
procedures, operations and records, the Investment Projects and
the Sub-loans.
(b) In order to monitor the progress of the Project, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain a monitoring system
acceptable to the Bank.
(c) Upon approval of the award of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awaided and the con-
tract price.
Section 3.06. By April 30, 1985 or such other date as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall
undertake a review of, and exchange views with the Bank concern-
ing, progress under the Project, including, inter alia, a current
analysis of the projected cost thereof.
Section 3.07. By November 30 of each year, commencing Novem-
ber 30, 1983, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a financing
plan for the Investment Projects to be financed in the subsequent
year.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall not make any Sub-loan
for a Project Commune under Part B (4) of the Project until said
Project Commune shall have entered into an agreement with the


﻿- 12 -
Borrower whereby said Project Commune shall: (i) designate a duly
empowered organization to be the Sub-borrower for a Sub-loan
under Part B.4 (a) of the Project; (ii) designate a duly em-
powered organization to be the Sub-borrower for a Sub-loan under
Part B.4 (b) of the Project and to be fully responsible for rural
road maintenance in the Project Commune area; (iii) establish and
maintain a Commune Road Fund, with separate accounts for road
construction and road maintenance; and (iv) provide evidence of
adequate sources of funds for road maintenance requirements.
(b) The Borrower shall provide a copy of the first such
agreement entered into with a Project Commune to the Bank for
its comments and approval, prior to making a Sub-loan for said
Project Commune.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial  policies   and  practices under   the  supervision   of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
In adequate numbers, and in accordance with its Self-Management
Agreement and Statutes.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower unconditionally undertakes,
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to any of the Sub-borrowers will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of any
of the Investment Projects, to make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide, or cause to be provided, any such
Sub-borrower with such funds in foreign or local currencies as
needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of


﻿- 13 -
statements of expenditure and separate accounts for the Project,
to record all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection
with the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one yerr after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social Account-
ing Service or another competent and experienced independent
auditing organization acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited; (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors
(including an analysis of the quality of the Borrower's
portfolio), of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, inacluding, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 5.02 (b) of this
Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso


﻿- 14 -
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provisions will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property or as security for the payment of
debt incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take steps satisfactory to
the Bank to protect itself against the risk of losses resulting
from changes in -the rates of exchange between the currencies
(including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing operations.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) A change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreements or Statutes of the Borrower which would materially and
adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
(c) The Self-Management Agreement referred to in Recital
(E) of the Preamble to this Agreement shall have been amended,


﻿- 15 -
repealed, waived or suspended in a such way as to affect
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
(d) A change shall have been made in the Federation's
Self-Management Agreement or Statutes which would materially and
adversely affect its carrying out of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(e) The Federation shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(f) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Federation will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c)
or (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Self-Management Agreement referred to in Recital
(E) of the Preamble to this Agreement has been entered into by
all parties concerned, is in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank and is in effect;
(b) the Borrower has appointed the development banking
advisor referred to in paragraph C.3 (a) of the Annex to Schedule
2 to this Agreement; and


﻿- 16 -
(c) the Borrower shall have opened the Special Account in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Federation, and is legally binding upon the
Federation in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   the Kosovo Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Kosovo, and is legally binding upon Kosovo in
accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date LA   fQ    J,'     f    ,  is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Ad4resses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
For the Borrower:
Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina
Mar'ala Tita 4
38000 PriAtina
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANKKOS                           18149 YU BANKKOS
Pris t:ina
Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By            eReglonal Vice President
Europe,   ddle East and North Africa
V
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for:
(a) Parts A (1)          30,700,000       100% of amounts
and (2) and                           disbursed by the
B of the                              Borrower on
Project.                              account of for-
eign expenditures
and 48% on account
of local expendi-
tures
(b) Part A (3)           23,100,000               "
of the
Project
(c) Part D (2)            1,000,000               "
of the
Project
(2) Sub-loans re-              6,600,000       90% of amounts
financed under                             disbursed by
Part C of the                              the Borrower
Project
(3) Consultants' ser-            300,000        100%
vices, vehicles
and equipment for
Part D (1) of the
Project


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed
(4) Interest and               9,400,000        Amounts due
other charges
on the Loan
accured on or
before April 30,
1988
(5) Fee                          588,089        Amount due
(6) Initial deposit            2,500,000        Amount due under
in Special                                  Section 2.02 (c)
Account                                     of this Agree-
ment
(7) Unallocated                4,811,911
TOTAL          79,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 20 -
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $6,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures for Part B (1) and -(4) of the Project before that
date but after July 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan  or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot   fully  meet   the  estimated   shortfall,   reduce   the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunider shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank    shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to generate economic activity and
promote individual agricultural sector development in Kosovo,
especially in the area of the Project Communes, through increas-
ing agricultural production, rural ant individual farm sector
incomes and employment opportunities; increasing capacity utili-
zation of existing agro-processing facilities; and contributing
to the institutional development of the Borrower and the Federa-
tion.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Primary Production Investments
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to finance the
following primary production investments:
(1) A Sub-loan to Bistrica Basic Organization of Associated
Labor at Decani for: (a) reconstruction and expansion
of an existing irrigation scheme on about 4,000 ha,
including construction of a diversion weir on the
Decani-Bistrica river and the laying of primary,
secondary and tertiary conduits for sprinkler irriga-
tion; (b) constructing drainage works on about 600 ha;
(c) carrying out soil improvement on about 1,000 ha;
and (d) construction of necessary service roads to
support future agricultural development;
(2) A Sub-loan to PIRO Agro-Morava for the construction of
drainage works on about 1,140 ha and related watershed
flood control and anti-erosion works in the Commune of
Vitina, including secondary canals underground drain-
age, watershed erosion control and land consolidation;
(3)  Sub-loans to:
(a) about 1,200 Individual Sub-borrowers in the area
served by the investments in Part A (1) of the Project
for the purchase of mobile sprinklers and other
irrigation equipment;
(b) about 5000 Individual Sub-borrowers for on-farm
development,   including   the  purchase   of   improved


﻿- 22 -
livestock, animal housing and related equipment, and
agricultural machinery, the establishment of orchards
and vineyards, and the improvement of pasture and
meadows;
(c) about    700  Individual   Sub-borrowers   for   the
purchase of tractors and related equipment; and
(d) about    400  Individual   Sub-borrowers   for   the
construction of wells or pumping platforms with water
access, and for the. installation of diesel-powered
pumps, delivery pipes and sprinklers.
Part B:   Farm Service and Marketing Improvement
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to finance the
following farm service and marketing improvements:
(1)  Sub-loans to the Organizations of Agriculturalists for
the  construction   and  rehabilitation   of  about   36
agri-service centers and about 60 agri-service depots,
including about 30 milk collection centers, all at
locations approved by the Federation.
(2) A Sub-loan to Veterinakos for the construction of about
5 new veterinary stations and about 20 shelters for
artificial insemidation, rehabilitation of about 20
existing veterinary stations and 10 existing depots,
and purchase of vehicles and veterinary equipment.
(3) A Sub-loan to RTV PriXtina for the carrying out of an
attitude survey of farmers on agricultural radio
programs, with    the  assistance  of  an   agricultural
communications consultant, and for the purchase of
equipment and vehicles for RTV Pristina and the 6
Regional radio stations.
(4)  Sub-loans to designated organizations in the Project
Communes for: (a) the improvement of inter-village
roads through the rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing roads and tracks; and (b) the acquisition of
maintenance equipment.
(5)  (a) Sub-loans to duly empowered organizations in the
Communes of Vucitrn and Glogovac for the survey,


﻿- 23 -
clearing and road construction involved in the
land consolidation of about 11,400 ha; and
(b) a Sub-loan to the Kosovo Bureau for Geodetic and
Photogrammetric Work for the purchase of cadastral
survey equipment.
Part C:   Fertilizer Credit
Re-financing of Sub-loans made by the Borrower to Organiza-
tions of Agriculturalists to finance annual incremental purchases
of fertilizer for sale to farmers.
Part D:   Institutional Development
(1)  Strengthening the Borrower's capacity for appraisal
and supervision of investments in the agricultural
sector, by taking the actions set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule, including the provision of consultants'
services, vehicles and equipment.
(2)  Strengthening the organizational, staffing and manage-
rial capability of the Federation to promote and coord-
inate agricultural development in the individual sec-
tor, through:
(a) improving the provision of agricultural extension
services including the reorganization and training
of Federation staff; and
(b) improving the facilities available for the carry-
ing out of the Federation's activities, including
construction of a building for its offices, and
provision of vehicles, furniture and equipment for
the Federation and IED.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 24 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall undertake the following actions to strengthen its
capacity for the processing, appraisal and supervision of invest-
ments in the agricultural sector:
A.   Improving the Individual Sector Processing System
1.   By October 31, 1983, prepare an analysis of the exist-
ing procedures for the processing of loans in the individual
sector, and a proposal of specific steps to be taken to simplify
and shorten the appraisal process for these loans.
2.   After reaching agreement with the Bank on the specific
steps and timing proposed, implement the recommendations as
agreed.
3.   By September 1, 1983, establish a system of Agricul-
tural Credit Officers (ACOs), with an initial 12 ACOs employed by
the Basic Banks, one for each Project Commune, and provided with
necessary equipment and vehicles. Each ACO would be responsible
for individual farm sector loan applications, field appraisal,
and supervision.
4.   By October 1, 1983, employ an agricultural credit con-
sultant for a period of at least three months to prepare a
three-month training program for ACOs in various disciplines
related to agricultural credit, and implement the training pro-
gram with the assistance of the consultant.
5.   By October 31, 1983, review, in conjunction with the
Federation, existing constraints on provision of agricultural
credit, in the individual sector, and implement specific steps to
increase the;number of potential applicants, including, inter
alia, development of a package development credit program; and,
at the level of Organization of Agriculturalists, reducing the
number of applications grouped; and changing the commodity
requirements so that to obtain a loan a farmer would be required
to agree to sell to the Organization of Agriculturalists either
the commodity for which the credit was granted or an amount of
related commodities sufficient to cover debt service on the loan.
B.   Improving Loan Administration
1.   Prepare, and   furnish  to  the  Bank  for comment    by
August 31, 1983, a new program to provide for regular supervision


﻿- 25 -
of projects financed by the Borrower in the individual sector and
the social sector.
2.   After reaching agreement with the Bank on the supervi-
sion program and its timing, implement the program as agreed.
3.   Review with the Basic Banks the process of disbursement
of funds by the Basic Banks, the Borrower and the Bank for expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and recommend
and by September 30, 1983, implement adequate measures to reduce
disbursement delays at all three stages.
C.   Improving Staff Expertise
1.   Employ a full-time qualified and experienced training
officer acceptable to the Bank by October 31, 1983, to prepare a
comprehensive training program for staff of the Borrower and the
Basic Banks, and revise the program as necessary.
2.   Furnish this initial training program to the Bank for
comment by December 31, 1983, and, after reaching agreement with
the Bank on the program, implement the program as agreed.
3.   Employ: (a) a development banking advisor acceptable
to the Bank to advise, from time to time, on strengthening of
management, improving loan application, processing, and disburse-
ment procedures, and increasing the Borrower's development
orientation; and (b) a full-time, qualified and experienced
development banking officer to act as principal counterpart to
the development banking advisor in carrying out in the -,esponsi-
bilities in (a) above.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Column     Column   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due       1*         2     (expressed in dollars)**
November 1, 1986    330,000     12,500          342,500
May 1, 1987         330,000     12,500          342,500
November 1, 1987    992,000     12,500        1,004,500
May 1, 1988         992,000     12,500        1,004,500
November 1, 1988  1,984,000     12,500        1,996,500
May 1, 1989       1,984,000     12,500        1,996,500
November 1, 1989  2,645,000     12,500        2,657,500
May 1, 1990       2,645,000     12,500        2,657,500
November 1, 1990  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1991       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1991  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1992       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1992. 4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1993       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1993  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1994       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1994  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1995       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1995  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1996       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1996  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1997       4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
November 1, 1997  4,193,000     12,500        4,205,500
May 1, 1998       3,903,000     12,500        3,915,500
*    This part of the Amortization      Schedule  is subject   to
amendment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.09 (a) of
this Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on- the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                           0.87
not more than thirteen
years before maturity
More than thirteen years                             1.00
before maturity


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Irrigation, cadastral survey and road maintenance equipment
to be financed through Sub-loans under Parts A (1) and B (4) (b)
and (5) (b) of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of .the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 29 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia may be granted a margi- of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 30 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Radio station equipment financed by Sub-loans under
Part B (3) of the Project shall. be procured in accordance with
limited international tendering procedures, under contracts
awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited
from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines.
2.   Goods and works to be financed by Sub-loans under
Parts A (3) and (C) of the Project shall be procured in accord-
ance with local procurement procedures.
3.   All other goods and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not referred to in paragraphs A.1, C.1
or C.2 of this Schedule shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.   In the event that registration in Yugoslavia shall be
necessary after a foreign contractor or supplier has been
notified that he will be awarded a contract, the Borrower shall
facilitate the registration.
5.   Contracts for civil works and goods shall include a
provision allowing non-Yugoslav contractors and suppliers to
convert into foreign exchange and to repatriate a reasonable
portion of contract payments, and to import equipment and
specialized manpower as required to carry out their services.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods to be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding:


﻿- 31 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it is intended
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 32 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Statement of Operations and Policies
for the Project
I.   Sub-loans under Parts A and B of the Project
A.   Sub-loan Processing
1.   Registration
Each Investent Project shall be registered with the
Borrower upon receipt of the application therefor made by a
Sub-borrower to the Borrower.
2.   Appraisal and Eligibility
(a) Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare an appraisal report
for each Investment Project, taking into account,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the follow-
ing:
(i)  the technical feasibility, financial viabi-
lity,   economic  justification   and,   where
applicable, commercial soundness and avail-
ability of markets;
(ii)  the generation of sufficient cash flow to
cover debt service, legal claims, legally
required allocations to the enterprise's
depreciation, reserve and reinvestment needs,
and the need to achieve financial and econo-
mic rates of return of at least 12%; if the
financial or the economic rate of return is
calculated to be less than 12%, additional
justification acceptable to the Bank will be
required;
(iii)  the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower;
(iv) appropriate consideration given to the choice
of technology, with preference accorded to
more labor-intensive methods as opposed to


﻿- 34 -
capital-intensive and automated technology
and to the consequences of such a choice on
the investment cost of Investment Projects;
(v) for the Sub-loans under Part A (1) and (2) of
the Project:
(A) an analysis of cost recovery, including
the level of user charges necessary to
cover operation and maintenance costs
and a .reasonable proportion of debt
service; and
(B) whether the proposed measures for use of
irrigated and drained land, including
provision  of   technical  services   and
market outlets, would maximize produc-
tion and user benefits.
(b) Sub-loans to Individual Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare a brief appraisal
report for each Investment Project, taking into
account the following:
(i) technical' feasibility, financial viability,
commercial soundness, economic justification
and availability of adequate and continuing
technical assistance and of suitable market
outlets at fair and reasonable prices;
(ii) the generation of sufficient cash flow       co
cover   debt   service,   legal   claims   and
reinvestment needs, and the need to achieve
financial and economic rates of return of at
least 12%; if the financial or economic rate
of return is calculated to be less than 12%,
additional justification will be required;
(iii) the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower; and
(iv) adequacy of the mutual agreements between
individual farmers and their own cooperatives
or social sector organizations.


﻿- 35 -
3.   Review of Investment Projects and Approval
of Sub-loans
On the basis of the appraisal referred to above in
paragraph 2 (a) and (b), Investment Projects shall be
reviewed and the proposed Sub-loans therefor shall be
approved as follows:
(a) with respect to the Investment Projects included
in Part A (1) and (2) of the Project and any other
Investment Project estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $1,000,000, the Borrower shall not
approve a Sub-loan before the Bank has reviewed
the Investment Project and the appraisal report
pertaining thereto and has given its approval to
it;
(b) with respect to other Investment Projects, the
Borrower shall review each Investment Project
submitted to it and shall have the right to give
or withhold its approval for a Sub-loan to be
made; and
(c) as part of the review of an Investment Project and
prior to approving any Sub-loan, the Borrower
shall ensure that:
(i) contributions to Sub-loans are available as
set forth in paragraph B.1 hereunder as and
when required to enable the Sub-borrower to
carry out its Investment Project in a timely
manner;
(ii) seasonal credits are made available to Sub-
borrowers in amounts sufficient to enable
them to realize the potential of the invest-
ments included in their Investment Projects;
(iii) the requirements (as and when applicable) set
out in Section 3.03 (a) (i), (ii), (iv) and
(vii) of the Loan Agreement are fulfilled;
(iv) in the case of the Sub-loan under Part A (1)
of the Project, the Sub-borrower (A) shall
have   provided   to   the   Borrower    final


﻿- 36 -
engineering designs and cost estimates and
(B) shall have agreed to cause its Basic
Organization of Associated Labor-Hydroeconomy
to employ suitable staff in adequate numbers
for   operation   and   maintenance   of   the
Investment Project; and
(v) in the case of any Sub-loan under Part B (4)
(a) of the Project, the Sub-borrower shall
have   provided  to  the   Borrower   detailed
engineering -designs for all roads to be
included in the Investment Project.
4.   Notification
(a) With respect to any Sub-loan included in the above
sub-paragraph 3 (b), the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of its approval thereof and shall,
only upon request, furnish to the Bank the
appraisal report of the Investment Project to be
prepared according to a format acceptable to the
Bank.
(b) With respect to any Sub-loan, the Borrower shall,
upon approval of such Sub-loan, promptly inform
the Bank of the number assigned to such Sub-loan
for the purpose of registration under paragraph
A.1 above.
B.   Terms of Sub-loans
1.   Contribution to Cost of Investment Projects
Unless the Borrower shall otherwise determine on the
basis of the financial situation of the Sub-borrowers,
Sub-borrowers shall be required to contribute not less
than 20% of the cost of each Investment Project (in-
cluding, in the case of Individual Sub-borrowers, their
own labor or building materials). The Borrower shall be
required to contribute, or shall cause to be contri-
buted, the remainder of such cost.
2.   Rate of Interest
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the portions of
the Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall


﻿- 37 -
carry interest on the principal amount outstanding from time
to time, as follows:
(a) to Social Sector Sub-borrowers, interest at a
variable rate equal to that payable under Section
2.07 of this Agreement plus a spread of at least
1.25%; and
(b) to Individual Sub-borrowers, at an annual rate of
not less than 18%.
3.   Repayment
For the purpose of Section 2.09 (b) of the Loan Agree-
ment, the grace and amortization periods for the repayment
of principal of the portion of Sub-loans financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be determined from the projected
cash flow of the Investment Project financed. Unless other-
wise agreed with the Bank, such grace and amortization
periods shall not exceed the following:
Maximum
Maximum              Amortization
Grace Period        Period (including the
Type of Sub-loan         in Years          grace period) in Years
(a) Sub-loans to            4                         15
Social Sector
Sub-borrowers
(b)  Sub-loans to           6                         15
Individual
Sub-borrowers
C.   Supervision
The Borrower shall supervise the application of its
Sub-loans in accordance with appropriate banking, financial,
technical and agricultural practices. Such supervision shall
include inter alia periodic visits (at least at six-month
intervals) to the Investment Projects to ensure that the
proceeds of the Sub-loans are properly used and that satis-
factory progress is made in the carrying out of the Invest-
ment Projects. After each visit the Borrower shall prepare
and make available to the Bank, if requested by the Bank, a


﻿- 38-
supervision report in a format acceptable to the Bank for
each Investment Project.
II. Re-financing of Sub-loans under Part C of the Project
A.   Eligibility
A Sub-loan for annual incremental purchases of fertilizer in
any particular year made by the Borrower to any Organization of
Agriculturalists in Kosovo shall be eligible for re-financing
under Part C of the Project, -
1.   provided that:
(a) the Sub-loan was made by the Borrower for a term
of one year at an annual interest rate of not less
than 18%; and
(b) the Organization of Agriculturalists has provided
the Borrower and the Federation with documentation
of its total actual fertilizer purchases in that
year and in the preceding year; and
2.   only to the extent that it was used to finance ferti-
lizer purchases in the amount by which the total actual
fertilizer purchases by the Organization of Agricul-
turalists in that 'year exceeded its total actual
fertilizer purchases in the preceding year.
Re-financing
1.   After the end of each of the calendar years 1983, 1984,
1985, 1986 and 1987, the Borrower shall consolidate the
total amount of Sub-loans made in that year and eligible for
re-financing, into one consolidated withdrawal request for
that year under Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement. The
consolidated withdrawal request for each year shall be pro-
vided to the Bank by March 31 of the following year.
2.   With each consolidated withdrawal request, the Borrower
shall provide to the Bank a consolidated statement verifying
the total actual purchases and cost per unit of each type of
fertilizer purchased in that year and in the preceding year
by all Organizations of Agriculturalists for whose Sub-loans
re-financing is requested under that consolidated, withdrawal
request.


﻿- 39 -
3.   The Borrower shall retain, in accordance with Section
5.02 (a) of this Agreement, the documentation referred to in
paragraph A.1 (b) above.
III. Part D(2) of the Project
A.   In order to assist the Federation in carrying out Part D(2)
of the Project, the Borrower shall make a Sub-loan to the
Federation:
1.   in an amount corresponding to the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Category 1(c) of the table in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
2.   which  shall bear interest on     the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at an annual
rate of not less than 18%; and
3.   which shall be repayable within 15 years, inclusive of
3 years' grace, in equal or approximately equal, semiannual
or more frequent, installments.


﻿- 40 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and siTvices required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories 1, 2 and 3 in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "initial deposit" means the amount allocated
to Category 6 and to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to the first sentence
of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
inf,tial deposit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each
such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Categories 1, 2
and 3, and in the respective amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
and furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 41 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the initial
deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably
request, showing   that   such  payment  was  made   for  iligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any time
that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b) when the
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories 1, 2
and 3 for the Project, plus the amount of any qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Bank and of any special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions witn respect to the Project, shall be not more than
the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial deposit,
whichever shall be sooner.   Withdrawal from the Loan Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Cate-
gories 1, 2 and 3 for the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify in writing to the Borrower and shall,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, be made only after and
to the extent the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notification have been utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 42 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     A-day of_____      1983-.
FOR SECRETARY


