Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
gR/,2R'{{>/yU
Report No. 6709-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 26, 1987
Industry Department
Energy and Industry Staff
Thi document has a restridted distribuion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duies Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Eank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit H Hungarian Forint (Ft)
$1.00 -Ft 45.0
Ft 1.00 - $0.0222
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric sa,stem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CA    -  Central Adminstration of Magyar Posta
-3MEA - Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
COCOM - Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
DAF   -  Delivered at Frontier
DEL   -  Direct Lxchange (telephone) Line
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GOH   -  Government of P.ungary
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IDD   -  International Direct Dialling
ITU   -  International Telecommunication Union
MIS   -  Management Information System
MP    -  Magyar Posta
O&M   -  Operation and Maintenance
NBH   -  National Bank of Hungary
PBX   -  Private Branch Exchange
PCM   -  Pulse Code Modulation
PCO   -  Public Call Office
PTT   -  Post, Telephone, T legraph
SPC   -  Stored Program Controlled
STD   -  Subscriber Trunk Dialling



JUl a OFFICIAL USK OWL?
HUNGARY
TELECOMNUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
PaEe No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..o...oOoe*.....*.ooo...e..    iii
I.    INTRODUCTION *..e...e.,...ea....ee..eo.eeI.ee e ,e,              1
II.   THE TELECONMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  I. e*.oo    *......o..e.oo..     1
Background and Organization ....1
Existing Facilities and Access to Service .*...........     3
Usage of Service *....4... 0 *******  ..............        4
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities S.........       5
Network Growth and Demand for Service  6.,.............     6
Sector Development! Strategy and Goals a.............       7
Sector Constraints   .. . .. ..*,,****,,***.....            8
The Bank's Rol.e and Strategy            ,                 10
III.  THE PROJECT MND PROGRAM  .. ......       ..ooe,.o.........,o    11
The Project .0.... .......... .............. eoe    11
Project Cost ......... ..............................    13
Least Cost Solution ...... ......... .   .                 14
Contingencies                                              14
Financing    * ee,oe.e*oooee.eee            *eeeeeeo    14
Procurement .t*,* 00.e.t.....                              15
Disbursements           .                                  17
Project Implementation ......e .*.e.e....* ........        17
Performance Indicators                                     18
IV.  THE BENEFICIARY ..............      ....                        18
Organization                                               18
Nanpower and Staffing .........e....* ,.,e,,*              19
Training    ........ ..                o....    19
Accounting *0 *.*******e*                                  21
Billing and Collection e.... ...e. .  .a..*eee***e    21
Auditing                          .                          .... ¢.* .  v*... 21
Action Plan                             . ....        ..* 22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. Timothy E. Nulty, Nikola Holcer, Stephen Bruahett, David P. Lomax
and Ms. Deborah Farrell.
Thb document h ansutcted distbution ad may be used by nrcnts ody in te pfranu
of fthr offk duft. Its.contents may not oterwie be dicked withoutldd Bank autrat1on.



- li -
Page No.
VI   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................eee.e.e.e           ,     22
Past Performance ............. ...  .. e                    22
Tariffs eee.c..... .e.c.... .....................           24
Financial Projection ................                       24
Intra-Government Transfers end Financing Plan ........    26
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  a..e.e,.ecc,c.,cce ecee.e.e.ec.e    26
Return on Investment.                                       26
Benefits     ..... ..                                       27
Risks             *.28
Environmental and Health Aspects .9#*eoee eeee.eeoeeo    28
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ......,28
Items for Agreement During Negotiations ...............   28
Conditions of Effectiveness .........................ooo*o*  29
Recowrendations                            ............    29
AEXES
1. Basic Data, Hungarian
Telecousnications Sector *CeoeC*eotC**..*oC.ec    30
2. Comparative Telecommunications
Data, Hungary versus other European
Countries with Similar GNP Per Capita                 31
3. Growth in DELs and Demand ..............c....c    32
4. Program and Project Costs                                33
5. Hungarian Telecommunications
Project:  Physical Program **cece.*cc.ee.*....         35
6. First Hungarian Telecommunications
Project, Investmezt, Financial ..................    36
7, List of Goods and Services to be Procured 000*0..*    37
8. Schedule of Construction and
Implement.ation          .      ...c..... e  ee       38
9. Performance Indicators cc.,,c.,e....o...e..ee,    39
10. Disbursement Schedule   ..... ............. v           42
11. Organization Chart             ....................    43
12. Tariffs      .                                          44
13. Historical Financial Statements                         46
14. Projected Financial Statement e.o..o.o.oo...o......    51
15. Return on Investment .......e....e....,......,.          58
16. Action Plan ce..c,,....,.ceeee             ,c.ece       65
17. Suuary of Technical Ass.stance Topics
and Schedule ..  x......o..... ... ...e.....          69
MAP - IBRD No. 20393-Hungary



- iii -
HUNGAY
TELECOfKUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Government of Hungary
Beneficiaries:  Nagyar Posts (MP)
Amount:         $70 million
Terms:          Fifteen years maturity including three years of
grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Onlending
Terms:          The proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent in
local currency to Magyar Posta (NP) at an interest
rate no less than the Bank's variable rate plus a
markup of at least 20X or NBH's rediscount rate,
whichever is higher in order to cover the foreign
exchange risk. The maturity of the loan would be
15 years including a 3-year grace period.
ProLect
Description:    The project, to be implemented during 1987-91,
would support an investment program which consists
of the last four years of the Seventh Five Ylear
Plan (1986-90) for NP's telecommunicstions plus the
first year of the Eighth Five Year Plan (1991). It
would also support the prog!am for reform in
Hungary and development of the telecomunications
sector by (a) increasing the financial and
administrative autonomy, flexibility and efficiency
of MP's telecomunications activities;
(b) rehabilitating and expanding the local
telephone network and expanding the long distance
telephone network; (c) expanding telex and date
services; (d) improving the geographical balance of
the network by extending services outside Budapest;
and (e) providing consultanta' services for review
of th.e tariff structure, traffic measurement and
engineering, creation of a software center,



- iv -
development of a digitalization-plan, improvement
of management information systems and expansion of
telephone associations.
Project
Benef-4ts and
Risks:          Business and Government subscribers will be the
major beneficiaries of the expansion of
long distance telephone, telex and data
facilities. They will also benefit from the
improvement and expansion of local facilities.
Business, as the largest and most rapidly growing
user of telecommunications, will benefit most from
the project. However, the project's emphasis on
rehabilitation and on traffic engineering will
improve service for all existing subscribers,
especially in Budapest where congestion and
deterioration of cable networks are particularly
severe. Network development outside Budapest will
benefit rural areas and smaller cities and will
thereby provide critical infrastructure to support
the objective of decentralization a1id regional
balance of the economy.
The principal risk concerns the pace of sectoral
and institutional reforms which could take longer
than anricipated. This risk will be minimized by
the close supervision during project implementation
of a timebound action plan including performance
targets and specific institutional actions.



-v.
Estimated Costs:
(O Million)
Item                               Local   Foreign    Total
Local telephone network             293.1      24.9    318.0
Long distance network               103.6      26.4    130.0
International network                 1.9       7.2       9.1
Telex, telegraph, data               24.4      25.0      49.4
Rural network                       113.7       4.1    117.8
Consultancy, training                --         2.0       2.0
Miscellaneous                        61.6        .2      61.8
Total Base Cost                598.3       89.8    688.1
Contingencies
Physical                           41.7       6.3      48.0
Price                             r2.3        4.7     97.0
Totala/                      732.3      100.8    833.1
a/  includes customs duties and taxes of Ft 2.1 billion.
Financinx Sources:
(S Million)
Item                               uocal   Foreign    Total
IBRD                                --         70.0     70.0
MP: Telecommunications
own sources                 635.7       30.8    666.5
Domestic borrowing             96.6       --       96.6
Total Project Cost           732.3      100.8    833.1
-__          _       __
Estimated Disbursements:
$ Million Equivalent
IBRD FY:         PY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
Annual             4.6    10.1    23.1    18.9    10.5       2.8
Cumulative         4.6    14.7    27.8    56.7    67.2    70.0
Economic Rate of Return:  292
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6709-HU, dated May 26, 1987
Map: IBRD No. 20393-HU



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Hungarian telecommunications system is a sparse, obsolete,
rundown, geographically unbalanced network which is inferior to that of
other European countries at comparable income per capita. This is a result
of the low priority hitherto given to telecommunications by the Hungarian
Government (GOR).  Recently, however, the GOH has recognized that
inadequate and unreliable telecommunications are a serious constraint to
its program to reform the Hungarian economy through decentralization and
greater reliance on market mechanisms, and to achievement of other
important goals, e.g., Improved energy efficiency. It has thus decided to
give higher priority to telecommunications development and increase the
resources devoted to telecommunications investment. The Government's main
objective for the sector under the current Seventh Five Year Plan is
rehabilitation of the network. The other objectives are to: (a) improve
the availability of telecommunications outside Budapest; (b) expand and
modernize the long distance network; (c) expand the rudimentary data and
telex network; (d) improve the efficiency of network utilization; (e)
increase mobilization of financial resourcea for telecomunications by
tapping new sources, including joint ventures with municipalities, firms
and cooperatives, sale of bonds etc.
1.02      The proposed project supports network rehabilitation and
expansion and gives special emphasis to regional balance and improved
efficiency. The project supports a five-year Investment and inastitutioral
development program consesting of the last four years of the current
(Seventh) Five Year Plan and one year of next (Eighth) Plan.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
2.01      Telecommunications Operation:  The Hungarian entity, Magyar Posta
(MP), provides postal and telecommunications services in Hungary. It also
transmits the nation's broadcasting and provides distribution services for
newspapers and journals. The military, police, railroads and some other
agencies have separate networks for their own purposes.
2.02      Until July 1983, MP was a department within the Ministry of
Transport and Communications. In recognition of the growing importance of
the sector, communications was separated from transport and made a discrete
sector for national planning purposes under Its own Secretary of State. In
addition, MP was converted into a separate state enterprise with its own
budget, legal authority, etc. 'the Secretary of State is also the President
of MP. Both the President and the General Vice President are appointed
directly by the Council of Ministers. The President, in his capacity as
Secretary of State, also has the powers of a Minister within the sector.



-2-
2.03      In the two years following the change in status, MP instituted an
internal reform program designed to make it more commercially oriented,
cost-conscious and efficient. Specifically it: (a) created a Presidential
Office to manage regulatory responsibilities, thereby separating these
responsibilities from telecommunications operations; (b) reorganized
operations along functional lines, e.g., telecommunications, posts,
external relations and marketing; (c) improved the accounting and
statistical system to reflect the new commercial or1entation and
organization; and (d) clarified and increased the responsibilities of MP's
Regional Administrations. Although the largest steps have now been taken,
further refinement and improvement of the organization is continuing with
discussion and input from the Bank.
2.04      Hungarian law gives monopoly over telecommunications to MP.
Certain government departments, e.g., railroads, power, oil and gas
refineries and pipelines, have internal system for their own use which are
not connected to the public switched network. However, MP sets the
technical standards and in some cases, helps maintain these networks. In
order to mobilize additional resources and accelerate extension of service,
MP has begun experimenting with new arrangements with business,
cooperatives and local governments under which these groups pay for the
purchase and installation of new facilities and then turn ownership and
operation over to MP. These arrangements can take the form of a special
business network, e.g., for Budapest airport. They can also take the form
of a temporary telephone association of potential business and residential
subscribers (typically organized by a municipal government). The telephone
association works with MP to design an appropriate network ana to collect
funds from the potential subscribers to finance purchase and installation.
(These networks are normally local but can be more. One producers'
cooperative in Debrecen has included a private line to West Germany as part
of its program.) Once the system is built the association is dissolved and
MP .ikes ownership. This mechanism assists MP in mobilizing financing and
supplements managerial resources, thereby permitting faster expansion than
could otherwise be achieved. Telephone associations have been an overall
success and MP is both extending its use and considering expanding the
concept to include more permanent associations which could continue to
operate the local network after construction.
2.05      The law governing telecommunications is currently being revised
to reflect economic, technological and policy changes which have occurred
in the sector over the last 25 years. The new law will focus on:
(a) articulating the commercial orientation of telecommunications
activities; (b) greater separation of regulatory activity and operational
activity; (c) providing a legal framework for provision of new services
(data, informatics, teletex, etc.) which were not adequately covered
before; (d) clarifying MP's authority over traditional services and
facilities, Including authority to license and interconnect with other
system; and (e) strengthening public relations, e.g., improved scrutiny
and accountability of MP to the public.



- 3 -
2.06      Manufacturig:  the Hungarian telecommunications manufacturing
industry has a long tradition. In recent years it has been one of the most
successful sectors of Hungarian industry exporting a significant proportion
of output as well as providing about 85% of Hungary's own needs. The main
manufacturer of switching equipment produces 400,000 equivalent lines
annually, mainly crossbar under a 1968 LM Ericsson license. Though of high
quality, this is now an obsolescent technology. Forty percent is exported
(80% to mewhers of the Council for Mutunl Economic Assistance, CMEA, i.e.,
the Eastern Bloc, and 20% to third world countries). In addition, 15,000
lines of analog PBX electronic exchanges of Hungarian design are produced
annually. Because of the emphasis on expanding service outside Budapest,
and because relevant equipment cannot be imported,!/ the Hungarian
industry is developing small digital electronic exchanges for rural use.
These should be available within the Seventh Plan period. The Hungarians
have decided that development of domestically designed digital central
office switches is probably neither practical nor economic--at least for
the near term. The dominant producer of transmission equipment has annual
sales of Ft 2.5 billion, 10%-12% of which is from exports. Production
includes coaxial systems up to 2,700 channels, symmetrical cable systems up
to 480 channels, digital pulse code modulation (PCM) equipment, microwave
transmission systems up to 1,800 channels, power supply equipment, and
various ancillary equipment. In contrast to switching, transmission
equipment, based on licenses from Sweden and France, is generally of modern
design and technology. For the equipment which they manufacture, Hungarian
producers are internationally competitive.2/ However, the designs which
Hungary produces are going out of production elsewhere as more modern
systems, from which Hungary is currently barred by COCOM come on stream.
Existing Facilities and Access to Service
2.07      Telephone:  At the end of 1985 there were 1.49 million telephones
and 739,000 direct exchange lines (DELs) in operation (Annex 1), giving a
density of 14.5 telephones and 7.5 DELs per 100 population. This compares
poorly with other European countries at a similar level of income,
including other Bank borrowers, such as Yugoslavia and Portugal whose
penetrat-on rate is 12.5% and 29.5% higher respectively, than Hungary's
(Annex 2). In addition, telephone facilities in Hungary are geographically
unbalanced. Budapest, with only 20% of the population has 50% of the
telephones. Outside Budapest, the West and North are better served than
the South and East. Penetration is 35 telephones per 100 population in
Budapest but only 9 per 100 outside (ranging from a high of 13 per 100 in
1/ Due to limits imposed by NATO countries and Japan through the
Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Exports (COCOM).
2/ See Hungary: Industrial Policy Performance and Prospects for
Adjustment, 09/30/86, Report No. 6124-:U, Chapter V.



-4-
the best served county to 5 per 100 in the worst served county). Total
installed exchange capacity in Hungary was 911,000 lines of which 739,000
were connected--giving an exchange-fill ratio of 81%. Automatic switching
capacity is equally divided between rotary and crossbar/electromechanical
types. Eighty-nine percent (809,000 lines) of local exchange capacity is
automatic-100% in Budapest and 77% elsewhere. This is one of the lowest
percentages of automation in Europe. Of 2,243 local telephone exchanges in
the country, 1,899 (85%) are still manual. Some of these are without
24-hour service, allowing calls to be made only during office hours.
2.08      Long distance:  The long distance network is comprised of 38
trunk exchanges interconnected with some 25,000 circuits carried by
microwave, coaxial cable and openwire systems. Long distance automation is
even lower than local-90% of DELs in Budapest have subscriber trunk
dialling (STD) and 61% elsewhere, giving a nationwide average of 79%. At
the end of 1985, only 500 towns/villages out of 3,066 were connected to the
STD network; the rest (2,566) of the localities were connected to the long
distance network via manual trunk exchanges. From about 125 million trunk
calls in 1985, 40 million (32%) were made via manual trunk exchanges.
There are 19,900 public call offices (PCO's).
2.09      Telex, telegraph, dat.a:  These services are even less developed
than telephone service; only 10,750 subscribers have telex service (a
density of 10 per 10,000 population). There is one main exchange in
Budapest and one in each of the five main regional cities plus 21 other
exchanges, located elsewhere in the country. The Budapest exchange is
stored program controlled (SPC) and handles telex, data and automatic
telegraph traffic. The remainder of exchanges are electromechanical and
handle telex and telegraph traffic. The network is fully subscriber
dialled with access to most countries of the world. There are 300 post
offices and 1,000 teletypewriters connected to an automated telegraph
network. Since 1981 Hungary has had a small data network, based on the
Budapest exchange to which 150 customers are currently connected.
2.10      International:  Hungary now has international direct dialling
(IDD) access to 84 countries through an international exchange, microwave
and satellite circuitfi. At the end of 1985 there were 3,684 international
circuits, up from 1,489 in 1980 (a growth rate of 20% p.a.).
Usage of Service
2.11      Fror! 1981 through 1985 tariffs for telephone usage (as distinct
from rental and connection tariffs) were completely unchanged. Thus
revenue from telephone usage charges is a good indicator of total traffic,
and hence of overall usage of the telecommunications network. Table 2.1
sets out these usage indicators. The number of subscribers with access to
service (i.e., DELs) grew by 3.8% p.a. from 1981-85. During the same
period, revenue from usage charges per DEL grew by 6.2% indicating that
each DEL was used more intensively. Much of this increased demand is for



- 5 -
business traffic (which has been growing at 10% p.a.). The lhigh rate of
traffic growth per DEL indicates the large demand for telecommunications
services but is compounding the problem of congestion and poor service
quality caused by past low levels of investment and maintenance.
Table 2.1: GROWTH IN DELS AND REVENUES
Average
Z Growth
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985      pea.
DELs (000's)                  637     644      676     705     739      3.8
Revenue from usage
fees (Pt million)         3,837   4,188   4,600   5,182   5,661    102
Usage revenues/DEL (Ft)    6,024   6,503   6,805   7,350   7,660        6.2
2.12      International:  International traffic has Increased by 25.6%
p.a. compared to an increase of 20X p.a. in circuits* This is putting
pressure on international facilities, causing congestion and decreased
service quality as more firms (most international traffic is business
related) demand more and better international access--without which they
cannot do business.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
2.13      The quality of service is poor, reflecting poor planning and lack
of balanced expansion, replacement and maintenance. Given the low level of
resource allocated to telecommunications in the past, GO and MP policy was
to allocate a disproportionate share of available resources to new DEL's.
As a result, maintenance and replacement of obsolete and worn-out equipment
received insufficient attention prior to the 1980's. MP estimates that at
the end of 1985, 28% of the exchanges and 202 of outside plants required
imediate replacement. System overload is such a severe problem that MP
had to introduce partial or complete restriction on new connections in more
than 100 of the 344 exchanges. Overall call completion rates are poor at
452 for local calls, 50% for long distance and 35% for subscriber-dialled
international calls. Based on international experience, a country at
Hungary's level of development should have call completion rate of 702,
60%, and 45% respectively. Long delays (up to several hours) in manual
long distance calls are a problem, as are excessive noise, echo, and signal
attenuation.
2.14      The poor quality of service is attributable to:
(a) worn-out local subscriber networks (both cables and local
exchanges);



-6-
(b)  insufficient traffic handling capacity in local
exchanges;
(c)  obsolete and insufficient long distance switching and
transmission capacity-especially outside Budapest and a
few main cities; and
(d)  insufficient fault monitoring, traffic measuring and
traffic engineering;
MP management is aware of these problems; the program of investment during
the project will improve service quality by giving priority to replacement
of old cables and switching systems and rehabilitating local and long
distance networks. In addition, the action plan (para 4.11) contains a
program, including technical assistance, for increasing the traffic
handling capacity of the system by improved traffic monitoring and
engineering. This will in turn improve the equality of service while
simultaneously reducing costs.
Network Growth and Demand for Service
2.15      In the past, the telecommunications network has not grown
sufficiently to provide balanced support for the overall development of the
economy. During the period 1980-84, investment in tei.communications
averaged only 0.8% of total fixed investment [0.2% of gross domestic
product (GDP)]. Countries at similar GDP levels typically invest 2-4 times
as much. Over the entire Sixth Plan period the number of DELs grew at just
over 3% p.a. during a period when these figures for similar countries grew
2-4 times as quickly.
2.16      During the same period, the waiting list for phones has grown
rapidly-reaching 385,000 in 1983, and 460,000 in 1985 or 38% of expressed
damand (expressed demand is the sum of installed DELs plus the waiting
list). The telephone waiting list represents a 14 year backlog at the
average rate of new DEL installation achieved during the 1983-85 period.
There were 1,100 potential telex subscribers on the waiting list for telex
services (80% of expressed demand). The long waiting list for telephone
and telex connections may partially result from historically low tariffs
which have recently been raised substantially. However, the Bank's
experience elsewhere is that demand for telecommunications is price
inelastic until penetration rises considerably. Further, experience
suggests that there is a large hidden demand of potential customers who do
not sign up because the backlog is so large. A large and increasing volume
of additional demand can be anticipated tor the forseeable future.
2.17      Therefoze, despite rehabilitation and large increase in new
investment, the supply of telecommunications facilities and service will
remain inadequate relative to demand throughout the project period and
beyond. Further measures to improve the efficiency of network use are



critical. Such measures are being undertaken under the project. They
include better fault monitoring, traffic engineering and expanded use of
differential tariffs to ration capacity and distribute traffic load.
Sector Development: Strategy and Goals
2.18      The Hungarian economic reform program emphasizes
decentralization, greater autonomy and flexibility for enterprises, greater
reliance on market signals, and increased exports. All of these goals
require reliable and efficient systems for the generation, transmission,
and processing of information. At the heart of such systems is the
telecommunications network. To be efficient and play its due role
significant institutional changes in the telecommunications system are also
required, in addition to expanded hardware. MP's organization, systems,
procedures, etc. need to be strengthened and streamlined to make it more
cost-conscious9 flexible, commercially-oriented and customer-responsive
within a rapidly changing technological environment.
2.19      The GOH, recognizing the importance of telecom&unications to
economic development, and past levels of underinvestiment in the sector, has
decided to provide MP in the Seventh Five Year Plan with substantially
increased resources (100% more than the Sixth Plan (1981-85) in nominal
terms, 80% more in real terms). The Seventh Plan (1986-90) objectives are:
(a) increase the reliability of the network and improve the
quality of service through the replacement and
modernization of old and worn-out plant and equipment by
devoting 37% of investment to this purpose;
(b) reduce the imbalance between Budapest and the rest of the
country by devoting 53% of the investment for this
purpose;
(c) increase the coverage and automatization of local and
long distance facilities in rural and smaller urban
localities;
(d) expand and improve the international, telex, telegraph,
and data services;
(e) improve technology in the network by planning and
introducing digital switching and transmission equipment;
(f) undertake a modest expansion of local telephone network
capacity (to prevent an increase in unsatisfied demand
during an interim period when rehabilitation is being
emphasized);



- 8 -
(g) improve MP's operational and management efficiency and
quality of service and introduce computerixed management
information systems (MiS) and an operation and
maintenance (00M) center; and
(h) improve training, especially of managers (in the
techniques of managing a financially autonomous,
commercially oriented business), and of engineers (in the
new digitalization techniques).
2.20      To achieve these goals, to improve efficiency and to utilize
effectively the large planned increase in telecommunications investment, it
is essential that telecommunications be functionally and economically
separated from other activ'.ties to which it has traditionally been wedded
in Hungary-posts, broadcasting and journal distribution. However, this is
and should be an evolving process; precipitate dismemberment is neither
possible nor desirable. GOH and MP are fully aware of the necessity of
functional and financial separation and are committed to it. In the last
three years significant steps in this direction have been taken by MP
(para 2.03). A timebound action plan for further steps is an important
part of the project, details of which have been finalized and agreed during
negotiations. The most significant components of this action plan are (a)
improvement of the accounting dystem; (b) increased operational separation
of telecommunications from poits at the regional level; (c) transfer of
microwave radio link management (properly a telecommunications function)
from broadcasting to telecommunications; (d) a system for monitoring and
assessing performance compared to a set of indicators and targets; and
(e) technical assistance (paras 4.11, 7.02).
Sector Constraints
2.21      The principal sector constraints arise from policy,
institutional, financial, technological and human resource constraints.
2.22      Sector Policy:  With the growing economic importance of
telecommunications, strengthened telecommunications policy will become
correspondingly important. The decision to put MP's telecommunications
operation on a comercial footing will help improve services, efficiency
and the rate of growth. But it will also create new couflicts with
customers, suppliers, and other providers.  To prevent conflicts and
bottlenecks from impeding development, telecommunications policy must allow
more flexibility and openess while maintaining the basis for a sound
national network. MP's new status since 1983 has been an important step
but further progress is needed. MP and GOH recognize this and are
currently drafting a new telecommunications law to deal with such issues as
MP's capacity to license and interconnect with other telecommunications
networks, creation and licensing of value added networks, pricing and
revenue procedures, customer complaints, etc. The new law is expected to
be presented to Parliament by 1990. But the process will not stop there.



Telecommunicatious will continue to change and its impact on the economy
will continue to grow. Hungary must have the capacity to reexamine and
adapt telecommunications policy in a rational and orderly manner. During
project preparation, the Bank, GO and HP have begun a productive policy
dialogue which has influenced many aspects of project design. The dialogue
will be strengthened and deepened during project implementation and will
continue to support other components of the project-especially the action
plan for institutional development (paras 2.20, 2.27, 7.02).
2.23      Institutional:  The organizational structure, management systems
and procedures of MP are still not optimal for efficient operation.
Improvement is important because, with the expected doubling of resources
to be devoted to telecommunications over the next five years, the ability
of MP to manage such an increase in resources and achieve adequate
profitability is critical. GOH and MP recognize the need for
organizational strengthening and are clear on the direction to be pursued:
telecomunications should become a functionally and financially autonomous
enterprise with tine financial and management structure and practices
appropriate to a commercially-oriented business policy. Attention is
currently focussed on improved accounting and management information
systems, increased decentralization of decision-making together with
stronger performance-monitoring and financial control, new services, and
mDre economic pricing (para 4.11 and Annex 17). Specific actions and
targets have been agreed which will be supported by technical assistance,
and will be monitored during pioject implementation (para 7.02).
2.24      Financial:  The principal financial constraint now is the
availability of foreign exchange. Recently the domestic financial
constraint has been eased; the investment ceilings set by Government have
been sufficiently loosened so that they no longer restrict investment. MP
as a state enterprise is able to raise and supply sufficient local finance
to meet its telecomunications development objectives. MP's ability to
mobilize local funds has been facilit:ted by the fact that it is now
permitted to supplement internal cash generation by employing such
mechanisms as sale of bonds, prepayment of installation costs by new
customers, joint ventures, etc., to raise local funds. Foreign exchange
remains tight and subject to overall macroeconomic difficulties facing
Hungary. However, there are a number of innovative fE4nancing mechanisms
for this sector (such as supplier credit, bilateral financing, etc.) which
GOH and MP are beginning to consider and which will be further explored
during the project period.
2.25      Technology:  The basic decisions to introduce modern digital
technology (switching and transmission), optical fiber communications and
satellites have been taken by MP. However, international restrictions on
trade in high technology equipment is limiting and delaying MP's plans to
implement modern technology as the network grows. In particular, improved
planning for nventual digitalization is essential. Optimizing the choice
of technology for the network during the interim, given the uncertain and



- 10 -
rapidly evolving world of both telecommunicatione technology and COCOM
restraints is both an essential and difficult task. In designing the
project, MP and the Bank have concentrated on: (a) rehabilitating and
expanding the underlying transmission network, both local and long
distance, since improving this is necessary regardless of the switching
technology; and (b) on rural development where the necessary modern
technology is available in Hungary.
2.26      Human Resource Development:  MP is facing a shortage of skillee
staff at higher and middle management levels to: (a) introduce, manage and
maintain the new technologies; and (b) carry out its new, commercially-
oriented policies and management techniques. Furthermore, as MP's staff is
bound to the government salary structure, it is difficult to attract and
retain the qualified staff necessary for planning and managing an ever more
sophisticated network. This is a common problem in the public sector but
is particularly acute in telecommunications because demand for the skills
it requires is growing rapidly (outside as well as inside MP). MP has
taken steps to address these issues (para 4.07)
The Bank's Role and Strateg
2.27      The Bank's country assistance strategy is aimed at supporting the
Hungarian reform program whose success is impeded by the inadequacy of the
telecommunications sector. The project, which would be the first Bank
telecommunications project in Hungary, would make an important contribution
to the reform program and is expected to form the basts of long-term and
continuing dialogue between the Bank and the authorities in the
telecommunications sector. Recognizing the Bank's expertise in these
matters, its ability to provide unbiased advice and its wide cross-country
experience, the GOH and MP have sought Bank involvement in the
telecommunications restructuring program. Apart from providing critical
foreign exchange, the Bank would have a major impact on the sector by
assisting in: (a) design of an optimal in;restment program within the import
constraints imposed by COCOM; (b) the articulation and development of an
appropriate telecommunications policy; and (c) managerial and technical
improvements necessary to achieve the goal of functional and financial
autonomy and commercial operation for MP's telecommunications operations.
A considerable Bank contribution on item (a) has already been made during
project preparation (para 2.25). In addition, the productive dialogue
which ensued has already resulted in progress with respect to the principal
sector constraints previously identified, i.e.:
(a) Sectoral policy - especially the need to develop a
well-articulated regulatory and policy-making structure
which is distinct from operational activity. Policy
issues include (i) balanced nationwide development of the
network; (ii) licensing other telecommunications service
providers (value added networks, private networks,
cooperative local area networks); (iiI) interconnecting



- 11 -
other networks with the national switchqd system; and
(iv) setting prices and resolving disputes (para 2.22);
(b)  Institutional structure - increased autonomy for MP from
the government; clearer demarcation of telecommunications
from other activities; further rationalization of
telecommunications operations along functional lines; and
further decentralization of decision-making together with
improved performance-monitoring and accountability
(para 2.23); and
(c) Managerial and technical improvements - improved
accounting and MIS, expanded use of bonds, associations,
joint-ventures and contracting-out; (especially planning
for eventual digitalization and creation of a software
development center) improved tariff structure; improved
long term planning; improved traffic monitoring and
engineering; improved quality of service; improved
procurement procedure resulting from experience with Bank
projects, international competitive bidding (ICB), etc.
(paras 2.23-2.25)
In all three areas dialogue during project preparation has focussed on
(a) clarification and articulation of telecommunications policy goals; (b)
identification of specific actions to be taken during the project period as
part of an actlon plan agreed during negotiations (paras 4.11, 7.02).
III. THE PROJECT AND THE PROGRAM
The Prolect
3.01      The proposed Telecommunications Project includes MP's complete
telecommunications investment program for the period 1987-91-spanning the
last four years of the Seventh Five Year Plan and the first year of the
Eighth Five Year Plan. The objectives of the project are: rehabilitation
and expansion of the telephone network, expansion of the telex and data
network and institutional improvements designed to increase MP's
efficiency, autonomy and commercial orientation.
3.02      The project consists of the following components:
A. An investment program covering the:
(i)  provision and installation of about 416,300 lines of
local switching equipment, of which 130,500 will be for
replacement and 285,800 new.  Installation of associated
local networks and subscriber outside plant for
connection of about 193,325 new subscriber lines;



- 12 -
(ii) expansion of long distance telephone facilities by 17
trunk exchanges (with 34,800 crosspoints) and long
distance transmission systems in order to double the
number of localities which are connected to the
subscriber trunk dialling (STD) network to a total of
1,000, (about 32% of all localities);
(Mi) expansion of the number of public call offices (PCOs)
from 19,900 to 25,900;
(iv) expansion of the telex network capacity by 2,400 lines,
the data network capacity by 1,300 stations; and
(v)  expansion of international telephone capacity by 8,064
crosspoints.
3.        Institutional strenthening by improving MP's
organization structure and management systems to enhance
MP's operational efficiency, labor productivity and
quality of service.
C.        Technical assistance through provision of 60 manmonths of
consultancy and training to support institutional
improvements of tariff structure, MIS, network planning,
traffic engineering, software training and informatics.
Map IBRD No. 20393-HU shows the planned telecommunications development, and
Annexes 4-6 give cost and physica'. data for the investment program.
3.03      Investment for telecommunications during the five years of the
project will amount to $833 million and will be allocated as follows:
(a) the local subscriber network, 46% ($383 million); (b) the long distance
trunk network, 19% ($158 million); (c) the international network, the telex
and dat& network(s), 8X ($67 million); (d) rural networks, 17%
($142 million); and (e) consultancy, training and miscellaneous equipment
and tools, 10% ($83 million).
3.04      The focus of institutional development of NP's telecommunications
operations will be on:
(a) improved tariff structure (paras 4.11, 5.06);
(b) improved accounting system reinforced with MIS
(paras 4.11, 4.08);
(c) expansion of new forms of resource mobilization
(paras 2.04, 2.24);



- 13 -
(d) improved planning for the eventual digitalization and
improved methods of traffic measurement and engineering
(paras 2.25, 3.05); and
(e) training.
3.05      In order to facilitate MP's institutional improvements, MP will
utilize technical assistance of $2.0 million in four areas: (a) tariff
structure study; (b management information system; (c) planning for
digitalization and traffic engineering; (d) telephone associations;
(e) creation of a software development and training csnter; and (f) new
data and information services (telonatics). Foreign assistance will amount
to about 60 manmonths. This will be complemented with about 90 unmonthe
of training abroad for Hungarian counterpart experts (of which one-third
will be middle and higher management staff). The objectives and draft
terms of references for consultant services have been agreed at
negotiations, and are given in Annex 17 (para 7.02).
3.06      In addition to the technical assistance to be financed by the
Bank loan ($2.0 million), MP will utilize short term assistance of
International Teleommmunication Union (ITU) experts in the area of training
and human resource development and advisers from foreign suppliers of
digital switching and transmission equipment, fiber optics, etc. In
addition to 90 manmonths of Bank-assisted training, bilateral assistance
agreements with foreign governments and PTT administrations will permit
some 30 senior MP staff to make study visits to developed countries in
order to learn about modern technologies and efficient operating methods.
Prolect Cost
3.07      Total project cost is estimated at $833.1 million
(Ft 37.5 billion) with a foreign exchange component of $100.8 million
(Ft 4.5 billion, 12%). These costs are based on estimated mid-1987 prices
for equipment and civil works. The local cost component includes customs
duties and taxes (Ft 2.1 billion). Cost details are given in Annex 6 and
summarized below.



- 14 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COSTS
-- - Ft millions -- -   -- - $ millions - - - %
Foreign   Localb/ Total  Foreign   Local  Total   Total
Local telephone network      1,122  13,190  14,312    24.9    293.1   318.0         38
Long distance network        1A190   4,661   5,851    26.5    103.6   130.0         16
International network          325       87     412     7.2       1.9     9.1        1
Telex, telegraph, data       1,123   1,096   2,219    25.0       24.4    49.4        6
Rural network                  185   5,118   5,303      4.1    113.7   117.8        14
Technical assistance,
training                      89      --       89     2.0      --       2.0      -
Miscellaneousa/                 10   2,772   22782        .2     61.6    61.8        7
Total Base Cost            4,044  26,924  30,968    89.9    598.3   688.2        (82)
Contingencies
-Physical                      283   1,877   2,160      6.3      41.7    48.0        6
-Price                         210   4,152   4,362      4.6      92.3    96.9       12
Total Contingencies          493   6,029   6,522    10.9    134.0   144.9        (18)
Total Project Cost       4,537  32,953  37,490   100.0D   732.3   833.1       100
a/  Primarily tools and instruments, spare parts, etc.
b/ Includes customs duties and taxes of Ft 2.1 billion.
Least Cost Solution
3.08      Project planning is based upon least cost solution methodologies
which are satisfactory. The agreed investment program represents the
least-cost solution for providing the service levels planned within the
constraints imposed by the existing configuration and technology of the
telecommunications network and by international restrictions on export of
equipment and technology. The timing and dimensions of various elements in
the system is based on generally accepted engineering practice for
selection of techniques and equipment after study of the feasible
alternatives.
Contingencies
3.09      Physical contingencies are based on 5% for local and foreign
equipment, 10% for local civil works and 10% for local and foreign
services. Price contingencies are based olx annual foreign cost increase of
1% in 1987 and 1988 and 3.5% p.a. thereafter. Local cost increases are
based on 7% p.a. during the project period.
Financing
3.10      The proposed sources of financing are as follows:



- 15 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
($ Millions)
Local   Foreign            % of Total
Source                        (Ft)      ($)      Total  Project Cost
IBRD                          --        70.0      70.0       8
MP
- Telecommunications
own resources         635.7     30.8      666.5      80
- Domestic borrowing       96.6                96X6      12
Total                732.3    100.8      833.1     100
The proposed Bank loan of $70 million would be made to GOH and onlent to MP
at not less than the Bank's variable rate plus a mark-up of at least 20%
(comprising processing costs and a risk bearing premium to cover the
estimated foreign exchange risk), or NBH's rediscount rate, whichever is
higher. Repayment would be over 15 years including 3 years of grace. The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between MP and GOH reflecting the
above and acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 7.03). From telecommunications activities and domestic borrowings MP
will generate sufficient funds to finance the local cost of its
telecommunications investment. Dome tic borrowings are primarily in the
form of bonds, at commercial rates, the flotation of which began in 1985
and will continue on a regular basis throughout the project. The remaining
foreign exchange requirement of the project, beyond what is provided by the
Bank loan, will be purchased at the official rate by MP from its own
internal resources. The GOH has agreed to provide the necessary foreign
exchange to MP on these terms [para 7.01(a)].
Procurement
3.11      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.  The Bank
loan would finance $68 million of equipment, materials and associated
services, $67 million of which would be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Participation of Hungarian suppliers in the bidding is expected to be
limited since equipment and supplies to be procured under the loan are
generally not manufactured in Hungary or (as in the case of cables) not
manufactured in sufficient quantity. Hungarian enterprises competing under
ICB will be eligible for a preference of 15% on the delivered at frontier
(DAP) value of the bids, or the amount of customs duties and taxes,
whichever is lower. International shopping would be used to procure
$1 million of tools, measuring instruments and spares for local line
construction and maintenance centers, workshops and MP's training



- 16 -
institution. International shopping has been selected for these packages
as there are only a limited number of suppliers and/or the items are
readily available off-the-shelf. The remaining imported items (not
financed by the Bank) would be procured by MP by ICB, negotiated contracts
or direct purchase. Locally produced goods are procured according to usual
MP and telecommunications industry practice, through local competitive
bidding, direct purchase, negotiated prices as appropriate, subject to GOO
regulations which are satisfactory. For cable and building construction,
local competitive bidding would be sought from qualified contractors.
Contracts for consultant services and training financed by the Bank,
totalling $2.0 million would be awarded according to Bank's guidelines for
use of consultants.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ millions)a/
Item                     ICB            LCB      Otherb/           Total
Land and buildings                     180.1   126.6            306.7
Cables                 11.1  (11.1)            151.3            162.6  (11.1)
Switching
local and trunk                              214.2           214.2
Switching
international                                  9.1              9.1
Transmisssion          22.2  (22.2)             21.7            43.9  (22.2)
Telex and data         19.3  (19.3)             30.0             49.3  (19.3)
Power supplies          8.1   (8.1)              5.8            13.9   (8.1)
Instruments             2.7   (2.7)              2.9   (1.0)     5.6   (3.7)
Cable laying
machinery             3.6   (3.6)              5.7             9.3   (3.6)
Misc. equipment                                 13.4             13.4
Consultants,
training                                       5.0   (2.0)     5.0   (2.0)
Total              67.0  (67.0)   180.1   586.0   (3.0)   833.1  (70.0)
a/ Includes contingencies.
b/  Includes limited international bidding, negotiated contracts, direct
purchase, force account.
Note: Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts financed by the proposed
Bank loan.



- 17 -
3.12      Tender documents for all bid packages (Annex 7) totalling
$67 million have been reviewed by the Bank and nine have been issued,
including all those with potential COCOM sensitivity (No. 2, telex
equipment, and No. 5 optical fiber systems). Regular consultation with the
relevant export control authorities has taken place during project
preparation to ensure that the specifications contained in all tender
documents are within the limits permitted by COCOM.
Disbursements
3.13      Disbursement for all contracts would be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications on the basis of 100% of DAF cost of
imported goods and services and 100% of local expenditures (exfactory for
locally manufactured items, if any). In order to accelerate disbursement,
a special account (revolving fund) of $5 million equivalent representing
expected disbursement over a four-month period, would be established and
maintained in the account in accordance with standard Bank procedures.
This special account with the NBH will be used for disbursement against all
expenditures. The estimated disbursement schedule for the project is shown
in Annex 10. The loan would be closed on December 31, 1993.
Project Implementation
3.14      Organization:  The proposed implementation schedule is presented
in Annex 8. The telecommunications wing of MP will be responsible for
overall project implementation. Its headquarters staff in association with
planning staff, are responsible for centralized procurement (through
specialized trading houses in the case of imports).  The evaluation and bid
award is under the authority of MP and does not need further approval.  The
award committees are comprised of headquarters technical staff assisted by
economists and lawyers of selected trading houses. Decentralized
development staff around the country, supported by a central investment
organization in the case of large projects, are in charge of day-to-day
implementation. This will be the pattern for the Bank project as well.
MP's staff has adequate experience in project implementation and their
implementation capability is satisfactory. However, the more complex
installations and new technology will require special assistance and
supervision by contractors and suppliers. Advanced procurement actions
will speed up implementation (para 3.12). In order to facilitate
procurement and implementatton, NP has set up a small World Bank Project
Unit in the Central Administration, with composition and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, which will be maintained throughout the project
period. This group will coordinate the preparation of specifications, bid
evaluation and conuvact award and will monitor execution of contracts.  It
will act as a liaison between the MP and the trading house, and between MP
and the Bank. The group will also be responsible for the administration of
the technical assistance program under the project and will prepare the
semi-annual progress report for the Bank. The project is expected to be
substantially completed by June 30, 1993.



- 18 -
Performance Indicators
3.15      Performance indicators for monitoring e7ecution of the project
have been agreed at negotiations together with targets for each indicator
In each year of the project. The main indicators, which are detailed in
Au'iex 9, cover:
(a) physical capacity (e.g., DEL's, local and long distance
exchange capacity);
(b) quality of service (e.g., fault rate, call completion
rate, operator response time);
(c) efficiency (e.g., employees per 100 DELs, cost and
revenue per DEL); and
(d) financial performance (e.g., internal cash generation,
debt service coverage, rate of return).
Comitment has been obtained that during the implementation period, MP will
analyze, in its semi-annual reports, its performance via-a-vis the agreed
indicQtors and will annually reach agreement with the Bank, on targets,
monitoring and necessary corrective measures for the subsequent years.
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization
4.01      Until recently, MP was under the authority of the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications. In July 1983, Government responsibility
of the sector was separated and a Secretariate of State was established.
At the same time, MP was made a State Enterprise, giving it legal autonomy,
control over its budget, investment, internal organization, etc.
4.02      In the past, MP was organized like a traditional government
department. In the last three years since its change in status, it has
moved toward a decentralized, and commercial form of organizational
structure (paras 2.02-2.03, Annex 11).
4.03      MP is organized into three levels:  the Central Administration
(CA), the Regional Directorates and local administrations. The Central
Administration is governed by a five-member Board, chaired by the President
who is also the Secretary of State for the sector. The other members are:
(a) the General Vice President, responsible for investment, labor and
economics; (b) the Vice President for Telecommunications; (c) the Vice
President for Posts; and (d) the Vice President for external relations,
marketing and other support services. Certain departments e.g., personnel,



- 19 -
regulatory activities, policy and long-range planning, report directly to
the President. The latter two represent rudimentary policy and regulatory
structures whose responsibilities should ultimately be fully defined and
separated from the operational activities of MP when the function of
Secretary of State and Head of MP are separated. At that point, the policy
and regulatory function are expected to be the responsibility of the
Secretary of State. This issue will be addressed in the new
telecommunications law being drafted; the central administration exercises
overall authority and performs policy-making, central planning and
budgeting functions for both posts and telecommunications. Other
centralized activities include: (i) research and development;
(ii) training; and (iii) procurement. Most routine investment projects are
implemented by the regional directors but latge, complex projects are
handled by the CA. Most day-to-day operations including investments up to
a given ceiling, are carried out by the eight regional directorates
(including two for Budapest, the only region where posts and
telecommunications are fully separated). Within the other regional
directoratest telecommunications and posts are under the authority of a
single Director but are operationally separate from one another. The
degree of actual separation and commitment to commercial operation of
telecommunications varies between regions. MP is considering actions to
address these issues. Elements of these are included in the action plan
and supported by technical assistance (paras 4.11, 7.02).
Manpower and Staffing
4.04      MP has a total telecommunications staff of 20,250.  This gives a
staff/DEL ratio of 27 per 1,000, which is comparable to other countries at
similar levels of development and has shown slow but steady improvement.
Progress in further reducing the ratio which is an important measure of
efficiency, will be monitored by means of the performance indicators and
the related review and remedy process (paras 3.15, 7.02). Management and
senior technical staff are well educated, experienced and dedicated. The
middle management is well qualified but lacks experience in modern
technology and the commercial approach to operations. Overall the level of
education and training compares favorably with that of many other Bank
telecommunications borrowers.
Training
4.05      Two main sources of training are available to MP:  state run
universities, colleges and high schools and specialized telecommunications
and postal training institutions run by MP. A total 8,500 students from
all these graduated in the la3t five years. In addition, 100-120 different
courses are organized for continuing education annually. For the equipment
in common use, most of which is domestically produced, training appears
adequate. So long as development is concentrated on system expansion using
domestic supply, there should be a sufficient pool of qualified personnel
in the country.



- 20 -
4.06      However, thevt are two areas where the existing educational and
training system is not adequate: (a) the new digital electronic
technology; and (b) management techniques Afr a commercially-oriented
telecommunications enterprise. MP recognizes the problem in both areas and
will take the following actions:
A. Regarding training in digital technology--NP will:
- by the end of 1988:
(a) assess the number of staff who will need training in
various disciplines.
- by the end of 1989:
(a)  equip secondary technical schools with laboratories for
telephone, telegraph and data transmission courses. The
regional training centers will also be upgraded with
audio-visual equipment, computer rooms and language
training; and
(b)  establish with Bank financed technical assistance, a
software center, one of whose functions will be the
training of software engineers.
- by the end of 1990:
(a)  equip its training center with model digital exchanges,
microwave equipment, optical fiber cable, etc., and
design suitable courses around this equipment; and
(b)  establish computer rooms end language laboratories for
teaching purposes in its training facilities.
B. Regarding management training, agreement has been reached during
negotiations on timebound programs to middle-level managers in techniques
to run the telecommunications operations as a commercially-oriented
enterprise. This program is incorporated in the action plan (paras 4.11,
7.02, and Annex 16).
4.07      The salary spread between unskilled and highly skilled staff is
exceptionally narrow, with the rate of pay for top engineers being low by
market standards. With the liberalization of the Hungarian economy, and
the growing importance of telecommunications and related fields to
companies operating in an increasingly comercial mode, MP will lose
trained and experienced manpower to firms which can pay higher wages for
critical skill categories. MP is aware of the problem and is addressing it
with a program consisting of incentive schemes based on performance and by



- 21 -
contracting out some activities (especially construction and some
maintenance).
Accounting
4.08      MP's accounting system is on an accrual basis.  The system
provldes revenue and cost information for each branch of activity. Within
telecommonications, separate results are reported for telephone, telex and
telegram services. The cost accounting system is adequate to provide
information about the financial performance of the various branches of
activity.  However, accounts have not been compiled in a fashion which
makes best use of the available information for management purposes.
Development of management information systems as a tool for interactive
management decision making has been proposed by the Bank and accepted by MP
as an essential component of their overall development. For this purpose,
MP has agreed to introduce by December 31, 1988, and thereafter maintain
accounts for telecommunications activities in a commercial format agreed
with the Bank which will inter alia (a) separate telecommunications from
other activities; (b) identify net financial flows between MP's
telecommunications; and (i) nontelecommunications and (ii) GOH;
(c) determine the adequacy of the level of tariffs for meeting the cash
generation target (para 5.08); and (d) provide information necessary for
agreed management information systems which will ensure sound management
decisions [para 7.01(b)]. The Bank and MP will annually review progress
and further refinements in the accounting system and the MIS (paras 4.11,
7.02, Annex 16).
Billing and Collection
4.09      The billing for telecommunications services is computerized.
Billings based on usage during the month are prepared by the middle of the
following month, for payment by the end of that month. MP collects its
receivables on time, The state agencies and ministries consistently pay
their telecomnunications bills, and individuals are unwilling to risk
disconnection of service. Over the past five years MP's receivables have
been less than one months' revenue.
Auditing
4.10      MP's financial accounts are not presently submitted to annual
external audit. The Central Department of the Ministry of Finance carries
out a verification every two to three years of MP's payment of taxes and of
the use of central government investment funds. This does not meet Bank
audit requirements. An independent financial audit will be carried out
annually, in accordance with terms of reference agreed at negotiations.
Provisional financial statements (including the agreed form of separate
accounts for telecommunications services) will be presented three months
after year-end. A final, long form audit report available within six
months of year-end [para 7.01(c)1. A qualified audit company, acceptable



- 22 -
to the Bank, has been appointed to audit the accounts during project
implementation.
Action Plan
4.11      With a view to promoting the financial autonomy and viability of
MP, its institutional development, and its operational efficiency, a
timebound action plan has been agreed during negotiations. This include
measures to:  (a) improve accounting, atditing and management information
systems (paras 4.08, 4.10); (b) separate telecommunications from
nontelecommunications activities of Magyar Posta (paras 2.20, 3.04);
(c) transfer of microwave and radio link management from broadcasting to
telecommunications (paras 2.20); (d) improve operational efficiency
(paras 2.27), including training staff and managers in new technology and
management techniques (paras 4.04, 4.06); and (e) analyze and improve the
structure of telecommunications tariffs (paras 5.04-5.06). The project
includes technical assistance and training for these purposes.  Further, to
review progress in the above-mentioned areas and MP's overall performance,
performance indicators have been agreed, as part of the action plan, which
will be reviewed at regular intervals (para 3.15). This will include a
review of the adequacy of the level of tariffs in meeting the cash
generation covenant (paras 4.08, 5.08). The proposed action plan is
detailed in Anaex 16.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance
5.01      The recent financial performance and position of MP as a whole
has been satisfactory (Annex 13-A). Profit before tax in the years 1981-85
a-ieraged Ft 4.4 billion, of which MP has retained an average Ft 1.6 billion
after payment of taxes. This equals an average after tax return of 6%.
The financial position was healthy with a 1985 current ratio in excess of
10, and virtually no long term debt to service. On average in the period
1981-85, net internal cash generation covered 80% of new investments.
5.02      The historical operating performance of the telecommunications
activities of HP is given in Annex 13-B and summarized below:



- 23 -
Table 5.1: SELECTED INDICATORS QF HISTORICAL
PERFORMANCE---TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(Ft million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Operating revenue                6,845   7,680   8,223   8,999   9,631
Operating costs                  2,797   3,122   3,429   4,229   4,938
Net profit before tax            3,705   4,162   4,298   4,252   4,071
Net income after tax             1,582   1,746   1,746   1,821   1,825
Rate of return before tax           31       31      26       24      21
Rate of return after tax             13      13      11       10       9
Telecom cash generation          2,696   2,949   3,061   3,540   3,549
Telecom investment               2,091   2,322   2,421   3,268   4,237
Net internal cash
generation as % investment       129      127     127      108      84
Current
Telephone revenue/DEL            9,595  10,460  10,917  11,541  11,884
Direct cash operating
costs/DEL                      2,876   3,172   3,362   3,837   4,614
Constant (1985)
Telephone revenue/DEL           12,759  13,009  12,650  12,357  11,884
Direct cash operating
costs/DEL                      3,825   3,945   3,896   4,108   4,614
5.03      The table illustrates the three major dimensions of performance,
that is cash generation, profitability and efficiency. Performance has in
general been satisfactory. With regard to cash generation,
telecommunications has generated more internal resources than required for
investment. A state grant for Ft 3.3 billion was allocated to
telecommunications in the Sixth Plan period. Telecommunications made a net
transfer of Ft 4.6 billion during the same period to contribute to the
financing of the operating deficits and investment requirements of
nontelecommunications activities. Levels of profitability were acceptable
and above nominal cost of capital of about 7% p.a., though the after tax
rate of return declined 13% to 9% over the period due largely to the
absence of tariff increases and due to increases in direct costs.
Telecomunications also suffered some declines in efficiency in the period
1983-85. There was an average 3% decline in revenue per DEL in real terms
due to system congestion constraining traffic growth. Direct costs of
staff and materials rose sharply over the period 1983-85 to arrest the
decline in maintenance standards. Direct costs per DEL in 1985 however,
equates to $115 equivalent which remains very low by European standards.



- 24 -
Tariffs
5.04      The schedule of telecommunications tariffs as of July 1986 is
given in Annex 12. At the beginning of the Seventh Plan the decision was
taken to increase tariffs in several stages. In the first stage connection
charges were increased 33 1/3% at beginning of 1986. Call cbarges were
increased 33 1/3Z in July 1986. Connection charges will be increased by an
additional 50% on July 1, 1987. Tariff levels will be further adjusted
from time to time to meet the agreed cash generation covenant.
5.05      Recent comparative tariff data suggest Hungary's tariffs,
particularly with respect to fixed subscriber charges other than deposits,
and to local call charges are relatively low. When account is taken of
relatively lower incomes in Hungary, tariffs are nearer average tfr
Europe. However, it is not known how the tariff structure and level
compare to economic criteria, e.g., no studies have been made to determine:
(a) whether specific tariffs cover the cost of specific services, or what
implicit cross-subsidization may occur; and (b) the potential for tariffs
to be used to ration excess demand for services. Since telecommunications
supply will continue to be a significant constraint for some time through
the period, the potential benefit from a more economic tariff structure is
substantial.
5.06      HP has agreed to undertake, as part of the agreed action plan, a
tariff study to address these and related issues (paras 4.11, 7.02). Terms
of reference for the study have been agreed and are in Annex 17. The
proceeds of the loan may be used to finance external consultants to assist
in the study if required. An interim report is expected by December 31,
1987, and a final report by June 30, 1988. The Bank will review the study
at each stage with MP and GOH and monitor the implementation of agreed
recomendations.
Financial Projection
5.07      A full projection of the income statement, funds flow statement
and key performance ratios for telecommunications has been prepared in
close consultation with MP and is given in Annex 14. The tables below
summarize the principal elements of the projection, which is considered by
the Bank to be conservative. The effects of tariff increases already
agreed by MP and GOH for the Seventh Plan (para 5.04) have been built into
the forecasts. On this basis, MP would meet the financial objectives of
the project noted below (paras 5.08-5.10).



- 25 -
Table 5.2: SELECTED INDICATORS OF PROJECTED
PERFORMANCE-'TELECOMNUNICATIONS
(Ft million)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Operating revenue           10,827  12,576  14,060  15,181  15,851  16,546
Operating costs              5,505   5,901   6,594   7,185   7,952   8,879
Net profit before tax        4,761   5,848   6,608   7,046   6,812   6,413
Net income                   2,081   3,023   3,326   3,446   3,288   3,093
Rate of return before tax       22       24      24      22       19      16
Rate of return after tax        10       14      13      13       11       9
Net internal cash
generation                 4,218   5,439   6,108   6,097   7,089   7,114
Investment                   4,504   6,000   6,867   7,531   8,344   8,749
Net internal cash
generation as
Z Investment                  94      91       89      89      85       81
Current
Telephone revenue/DEL       12,871  14,535  15,537  16,049  15,949  15,897
Direct cash operating
costs/DEL                  4,750   4,965   5,141   5,229   5,383   5,049
Constant (1985)
Trilephone revenue/DEL      12,270  12,235  12,632  13,048  12,966  12,924
Direct cash operating
costs/DEL                  4,567   4,588   4,570   4,423   4,424   4,504
5.08      One of the financial objectives of the project is to promote
financial autonomy of telecommunications for meeting its investment needs
by reliance on its own resources, supplemented by borrowing at commercial
rates, largely bond markets and banks. GO and MP agreed at negotiations
that internal cash generation will cover at least 75% of the moving average
of investment requirements over a three year period. The 75% substantially
represents the local cost component of the investment program. Tariff
levels which are expected to be adequate to achieve this objective will be
reviewed annually as part of the performance monitoring to ensure that the
cash generation target is met [paras 4.08, 7.01(b)].
5.09      A second objective is to assure satisfactory levels of
profitability and efficiency. Over the period 1986-91, the before tax rate
of return is expected to average 21% p.a., and the post tax rate of return
10%, assuming no change in the existing tax structure. A more appropriate



- 26 -
indicator of financial return would be the after tax return on revalued
assets. When assets are revalued at $2,000 per DEL equivalent, (the
replacement cost at 1986 prices), this rate of return averages 7% per year
during the period to 1990, equivalent to MP's cost of funds (estimated as
the bond rate). As part of the action plan on accounting improvement, MP
and the Bank will agree on a method of asset revaluation and thereafter
review the rate of return on revalued assets as part of financial
performance monitoring.
5.10      The efficiency of telecommunications operations is expected to be
satisfactory and to improve over historical performance. It will be
reviewed on an annual basis as part of performance monitoring. There is
expected to be a small improvement in traffic per DEL as measured by
revenue per DEL as new investments relieve congestion and increase the
numbers of new subscribers. Automatic long distance and international
traffic should at least double by 1992. The real increase in direct costs
per DEL should stabilize in 1986-88 during t.he project (Table 5.2).
Intra-Government Transfers and Financing Plan
5.11      A further financial objective of the project is to eliminate any
net capital subsidy to telecommunications from GOH during and beyond the
project period. Telecommunications is expected to pay Ft 15.8 billion in
taxes and is expected to contribute slightly more to nontelecommunications
activity (Ft 14.9 billion) than it receives from GOH in terms of grants or
soft loan support (Ft 14.5 billion).
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Return on Investment
6.01      The calculation of the rate of return on all new works over the
period 1986-91 is given in Annex 15. The principal benefits arise from (a)
the incremental 317,000 telephone subscribers and 3,500 new telex
subscribers connected through the program; and (b) the avoided estimated 3%
annual decline in revenue per subscriber that would probably have occurred
without the project. The financial rate of return on these benefits is
15X.
6.02      The financial rate of return based on conservative projections
does not truly reflect the net economic benefit from the new works. The
value of telephone service is far in excess of both the cost of providing
it and the price chbrged for it. One indicator of this is the implied
market price for a telephone connection contained in the price differential
between housing and business premises which have telephone connections and
those which do not. By revaluing telephone connections to account for this



- 27 -
surplus the project yields a minimum economic rate of return of 29%. This
does not take into account any revaluation of telephone traffic or of the
substantial external benefits accruing to the economy from improved
telecommunications.
6.03      The following sensitivity tests were carried out on the economic
rate of return:
- with a 20% increase in capital costs, the rate of return
is 192;
- with a 201 increase in operating costs, the rate of
return is 25%;
- with a 20X reduction in operating revenue, the rate of
return is 17%; and
- with a combination of these effects, the rate of return
is 101.
- with a 2-year delay in benefits, the _ate of return falls
to 13X.
Benefits
6.04      Economic-development in the 1980's and 1990's requires
accelerated improvement in telecommunications services. In addition,
Hungary's reform program specifically emphasizes increlsed decentralization
of decisions and reliance on market mechanisms by producers and
consumers--which further enhances the need for improved telecommunications
since decentralized market systems cannot function properly without rapid,
efficient, readily available transmission of information. Compared with
alternative means of communication, telecommunications are more efficient
in terms of capital and energy consumption and user time.
Telecommunications are in fact, a highly cost effective and preferred
substitute for physical transportation. With adequate telecommunications
facilities, the level and variety of productive communication can be
increased considerably, and activities which would otherwise not be
feasible can be realized.
6.05      In terms of the specific constraints on Hungary's economic and
social developrtnt, telecommunications can play a significant role in
connection with:
(a) reducing the cost of locating production outside the main
industrial centers, notably Budapest, thereby helping
decentralize economic activity and encouraging balanced
regional development;



- 28 -
(b) improving the working of market mechanisms by expediting
and extending access to information as needed to increase
productivity, foster competition and develop trade;
(c) increasing the efficiency of transportation through
coordination of vehicle use and substitution of
communications for travel, resulting in energy savings
and greater efficiency;
(d) mobilizing domestic savings by replacing Government
financing with internal cash generation, subscriber and
government bonds, joint ventures, etc.
6.06      Key areas of Hungary's economy, upon which development and
especially hard currency earnings depend, include agriculture, tourism and
selected industries and services. All are dependent on extensive and
reliable telecommunications. For example, Hungary's farm exports include
many high value-added specialty products for particular markets (game for
restaurants, wine, preserves, garden vegetables, etc.) which depend on
close contact with customers and a high degree of flexibility and market
responsiveness by producers. The poor development of telecommunications in
the Hungarian countryside Is a serious handicap to improving productivity
of the agricultural sector. The same is true for tourism and for key
industries and services.
Risks
6.07      The principal risk concerns the pace of sectoral and
institutional reforms which could take longer than anticipated. This risk
will be minimized by the close supervision during project implementation of
a timebound action plan including performance targets and specific
institutional actions (paras 4.11, 7.02).
Environmental and Health Aspects
6.08      The project is expected to have no adverse environmental or
health impacts. Indeed, they can be expected to improve both by reducing
the relative need for (comparatively dangerous and environmentally
damaging) transportation per unit of GNP growth and by improving the
delivery of health services, especially in the countryside.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached concerning:



- 29 -
(a) provision of foreign exchange to finance those imported
items of the project which are not financed by the Bank,
(para 3.10);
(b) introduction by December 31, 1988 and maintenance
thereafter of accounts in a commercial format acceptable
to the Bank, which will inter alia: (1) separate
teleconminications from other activities (para 4.08);
(ii) identify net financial flows between MP's
telecommunications and (a) nontelecoamunications and (b)
GOH (para 4.08); (iii) determine the adequacy of tariff
levels for meeting the cash generation targets
(para 5.08); and (iv) provide information necessary for
agreed management information systems to assist
management in making sound decisions (para 4.08);
(c) audit of MPts accounts by qualified independent auditors
according to term of reference agreed with the Bank. MP
will submit these accounts to the Bank no later than six
months following the end of each fiscal year (para 4.10);
(d) internal cash generation from teleco muaications
activities during the project period 1987-91, amounting
to at least 75Z of the average telecommunications capital
investment requirements over three years and assurance
that the remainder of telecommunications investment will
be financed by borrowing on comercial terms (para 5.08);
and
7.02      During negotiations agreement was reached regarding a detailed,
timebound action plan covering: (a) overall performance; (b) institutional
development; (c) financial performance; and (d) operational efficiency
(para 4.11). Agreement was reached on the objectives, and terms of
reference for technical assistance under the project (para 3.05);
Condition of Effectiveness
7.03      Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank
between GO  and MP and G00  (para 3.10).
Recomendations
7.04      Subject to agreement being reached on the above, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of $70 million for a term of 15 years
including three years grace.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page i of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Basic Data - Telecommunications 1980-85
1980      1981      1982       1983     1984       1985
Local Telephone
No. of main exchanges total  (No.)                      2,543     2,505      2,441     2,379     2,298      2,243
manual exchanges (No.)                                2,305     2,256      2,178     2,101     1,993      1,899
Automatic exchange (No.)                                238       249        263       278       305        344
Total capacity of main exchange (lines)               762,878   781,074   802,595   832,005   856,552   910,508
Manual exchsages (lines)                            106,832   105,633   103,590   104,684   103,451    99,077
Automatic exchanges (lines)                         654,046   675,441   699,005   727,321   753,101   811,431
Changes in capacity total (lines)                     +61,118   +18,196   +21,521   +29,410   +24,547   +53,956
Automatic (lines)                                   +61,568   +21,395   +23,564   +28,316   +25,780   +58,330
Manual (lines)                                         -450    -1,199    -2,043    +1,094    -1,233    -4,374
Total connected stations                            1,261,295 1,296,682 1,338,356 1,383,159 1,433,336 1,484,508
Connected main stations                             617,243   636,625   644,254   676,384   705,407   738,800
Connected extenstions                               644,052   660,057   683,102   706,775   727,929   745,708
Ratio of total station to connected lines:
Main exchange fill (z)                                 80.9      81.5       81.6      81.3      82.4       81.1
Registered waiters (No)                               258,434   293,069   334,188   385,363   431,588   465,479
Interurban Telephony
Number of interurban exchanges (No)                        35        35         37        38        38         38
Number of localities connected to STD                     226       269.       390       400       444        500
Number of main station with STD (X)                      75.8      76.5       77.5      79.1      80.4       81.3
laterutrban circuits (No)                              15,489    16,607    20,993    22,564    23,934    25,069
Interurban traffic In calls total (IOOOxNo)             8,328    88,003    95,948   105,658   117,607   125,447
Manually operated (lOOOsNo)                          42,315    41,044    41,790    41,521    41,996    40,079
Trunk dialling (1000l No)                            40,013    46,959    54,158    64,138    75,611    853,68
International Telephony
Number of countries which can be dialled (No)              27        27         27        28        30         84
Number of international calls total (lOOOxNo)           3,800     4,100      4,684     5,475     7,849    11,884
out of this manually (IOOOxNo)                          705       713        611       531       561        917
Number of international circuits total (No)             1,489     1,612      2,719     2,863     3,357      3,684
out of this terminating circuits (No)                    -         -       1,396     1,459     1,521      1,604
Telegraphy and Data
Number of exchanges (NO)                                   40        39         39        39        39         39
Capacity of the exchanges (lines)                      11,260    15,068    15,848    16,088    17,038    17,398
Changes in capacity (lines)                              +280    +3,808      +780       +240      +950      +360
Connected telex subscribers (No)                        8,132     8,659      9,222     9,761    10,292    10,782
Connected data subscribers (No)                           738       882        987     1,151     1,288      1,498
Registered telex waiters                                  919     1,001      1,045     1,063     1,113      1,051
Number of inland telegrams (100OxNo)                   12,860    11,294    10,994    11,389    11,835    11,673
Number of international
outgoing telegram  (tlOOOxNo)                           258       517       461        463       462       431



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Comparative Telecommunications Data, as of January 1, 1984
GNP/    Total   Phones/   Telex       Data     %
Pop.    Terr.    Cap.    Phones    100        Sub-      Sub-    Tel
Country           mlnse.  sq. km.    $      mlns.    Pop.      scrbrs   scrbrs   Auto
Hungary         10,690    93,030   2,050   1,383   12.94        9,761      809    88.3
Greece           9*850   131,944   3,740   3,313   33.64       15,178   1t869    99.6
Turkey          47,280   780,576   1,200   2,671    5.65        8,048      936    83.4
Poland          36,570   312,677    n.a.   3,846   10.52       27,858      420    90.4
Portugal        10,100    92,082   1,970   1,684   16.68       14,412   2,062    99.5
Yugoslavia      22,955   255,840   2,120   3,340   14.55       11,462      520    99.4



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of I
HUGARY
NAGYAR POSTA
TELECOl)OIICATIONS PROJECT
SUPP1Y and Demand for Telephone Direct Exchange Lines (DELs)
))090's DELs
4,000
3,500
3,000                                                                           p9,894
.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~/
/
2,500                                                                     /
i                 ~~~~Excpressed but                        I
unsatisfied demnd                      /        2,300
for DELs                                         ,0
2,000                                                           2/0
1,500               Total expressed                  1,46J               61
demand for J,ELs
1 ,000                           . S                             worktS  DEL
500~ ~~~7
39~~~~   1K                               3
304   existing                            ~~~~~~~~formast
49          0       195         9          W        190        19O 2
Wood O0 I-MO3 0



- 33 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MACYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Seventh Five Year Investment Plan, all MP
(Ft million)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   Total
Sixth Five Year Plan Carryover
- telecommunications               2,105   2,363   1,028       177      -    5,673
- nontelecommunications              327    -          -        -       -      327
Total carryover                 2,432   2,328               177     -0  6,-00
Seventh Five Year Plan                                   t
- telecommunications               2,399   3,637   5,839   7,354   8,343  27*572
- postal                             724   1,070      9bO      955   11,092   4,801
- broadcasting                       324      475     439     602      851   2,691
- Government investment              622      785     813      888     720   3,828
MP Total investment                 6,501   8,330   9,079   9,976  11,006  44,892



- 34 -
ANNEX 4-B
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Investment Plan
(Ft million)
1986    1987     1988    1989    1990      1991      Total
Carryover from
Sixth Five Year
Plan               2,105   2,363    _,028       177      --       -       5,673
Ongoing works
under Seventh
Five Year Plan     2,399   3,637        -       -        -        -       6,036
New Investment
under Bank project    --       -     5,839   7,354   8,343    8,749      30,285
Total            4,504   6,000    6,867   7,531   8,343    8,749       41,994
-          --- z ~ coomo             --  -mm



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Physical Investment Data
Total
Unit               1987        1988     1989    1990    1991    1987-91
Local telephone
network
Switching (ARF)        lines            23,600      76,900   18,600 146,200  94,400   359,700
Outside pla.t          1,000 cond. km      750         719       766     747      756     3,738
LOSg distance
network
Switching (ARM)        cross point       6,000      13,200    4,000   7,600   4,000    34,880
Transmission
- coaxial              coax. km             -        1,032    1,054      624      948     4,294
- micro                ch. km                        1,014    1,000   2,300   2,923       7,237
International
network
Swi*ching              cross point          --       8,064        -       -        -      8,064
Telex, telegraph
and data telex         lines                -        1,010    1,365   1,667   1,742       5,714
Rural network
Switching (ARM,ARF)   lines              4,200      13,600    9,900  26,300   2,600    56,600
Transmission
- cable                cond. km         30,000      31,000   34,000  33,000  34,000   162,000
- fiber optic          lines                           100       300     200      250       850
- micro                ch. km                          439       400     510      410     1,759



SUNG"!
T3LSC01KC6TIB0    PROJECT
?e1.cmalcatioaa Plea 187-91
- 987 - - - - -   - - - - - 1961 - - - -      - - - - - IM  - - - - -  - - - - - 1990 - - - - -  - - - - -                          l - - - - - - - -    198?-91 - -  - -
Foreii  Local   Total  Forein   Local   Total  Foreig    Locl   Total  Frism  Loadl   Total  Foreip   local   TOt   Foreig   Lac"    Total
Local Tekaphmw Netvock
Switddg                      7    1,719     1,726     141      826      967      65      915      980       56    1,345   1,401       69    1,430    1,499     338   6,235      6,573
Outddj  Pj.                  9   1,921      1,930     210      953    1,163     239    1,538    I,M       .203      945   1,148      123   1,598    1,721      784   6,955      7,734
SwItddc                     -        22        22      -       341     341       -       155      155       -       602     602       -       477      47       -    1,597      1.597
Trmwusai                    16       36        52    254       603      857     270      906    1.176      328      923   1,251      322       96      918   1,190    3,064    4,254
Inte710timul Netvz         110        2       112    135        21      156      28       -        28       -                -        52       96      116     325      87       412
Telex Data                  24       17        41    504       220      724     156      223      379      178      239     417      261      397      658   1,123   1,096    2,219    o
S*etchb                     -       433       433      -       328      328      -       342      342       -       489     459       -       516      516      -    2,108      2,108
Tan.uw.ea                    2      614       616      37      457      494      49      639      668       62      689      751      35      611      646     385   3,010      3,195
Cgultanc  gEd Tradm          2       -          2      22       -        22      22       -        22       22       -       22       21       -        21      69      -          89
44 m1  29        30       9      652      661      -       663      663       -       793      793      -       635      635      10   2.772      2.782
TOSA C.                   171   4,9       4,964   1,312   4,401    5,713      829   5,381   6,210        849   6,025   6,874    863   6,324    7,207   4,044  26,924    30,986
-=dca                       12      328       340      92      306     400       58      377      435       39      422     481       61      443      504    283    1,877      2,160
itnc                         7      689       696      68      686     754       43      643      86                944     gs        48      990   1.038    210   4452        4.362
TOAL Poject Cost         190   5,810    6,000   1,472    5,395    6,867       930   6,601    7,531      .953   7,391    6,343      992   7,757    8,749  4,537   32,953    37,490
0
I.t



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Bid Packages
Bid Package                    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
IBRD-H-O1
- facsimile terminal           -       XX      -       -        --
IBRD-R-02
- telex data exchange          %X      -
IBRD-H-03
- telefax terminals                    XX      XX      XX      XX
IBED-H-04
- digital microwave            XX      XX      -       -
IBRD-H-05
- optical fiber trans.         XX      -
IBRD-H-06
- analogue microwave           -       XX       .      XX      --
IBRD-H-07
- rural telephone
systems                              XX      xx      XX      XX
IBRD-H-08
- measuring and testing
instruments                 XX       XX      --
IBDH-09
- cables                      -        XX      XX      XX      XX
IBRD-H-10
- batteries                   XX       XX      XX      XX      XX
IBRD-H-l1
- diesel generators           XX       XX      XX      XX      XX
IBRD-H-12
- cable laying machine         XX      XX      XX      XX      XX
IBRD-H-13
- technical assistance
and training                         XX      XX      XX      XX



38                               ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1966        19"        190          1969       19          19
12  4 1  3 4 2 3 _1 2_ 314 _             3 _ 4 12 3 _4    3 4 3     _2
LOCAL NE1WORK:
Exchanges:m                ----                 -           --    ia-            aa-
Land and Buildings:  -  - -  - -    _     - _  _      -      --
Networkc:OC                                                   in n          nnU
Bo"~:                                   ---         -        -         - a -
TRANSMISSION:
.Equipmset:                     QL£  a -                             a -  !a-  
,,~~~~ , .   x                                          i _              I ::  ,
Insfuet                                            -     a  * X L.  u; != -
A-I II- 
tELEX TG. DATA:
Equipoffwv                                       --                
TON Xlonc Sns.                      0       I 3 +3:2oC  I 10              I       I
I eteex                                m            l        -  - 1-  _M _=5
RURAL. NETWORK:
Lanid and Buildngs:-                     m-amU
Networkc:,                                               I                     
CONSULtI+INING                              - - 
I_              _  _ _   1         _ _____1_   _1     111 __1______
.    - _ _    _______                                            ___RotProjet
*-                     L.. a SYYmPlan -
Legen
0 * Bid 0Opein
C * Conract Sgnedt of Order
XO DeIvs dof Equient
I End of         _
'&bWIedM fbre opflos WMes and tMesO Wi be purchd  In 2 goups
World Bank-34073:2



- 39 -                                     ANNE 9
Page 1 of 3
1f' ;GAn
TELECOM CATIONS PREJT W
PERPORNWNCE INDICATORS
Aped
Actual     Tareta   - - - - - - Projected rdicator    o - - - - --
1986       1)87        1988        1989       1990       1991
tnu-ial ulephone ehange                 1,876        1,860      1,822      1,788      1,751      1,613
Automatic telephone excane               349          363        378         396        426       501
Total telephone exchange               2,225        2,223      2,200       2,184      2,177      2,114
Total telephoe trunk exchages             38           41         42          46         53        59
Total installations of which:         38,000       27,800     90,500      28,500    172,500    97,000
- reconstruction.                    6,300        11,000     21,500      10,100     72,400    15,500
- net am addition                    31,700       16,800     69,000      18,400    100,100    81,500
mNunal exzcluge cqpacity               98,830      93,210     85,420      81,050      71,835    59,400
Automtlc exchange capacity            844,111      866,531    943,321     966,0-1  1,075,406  1.169,341
Total excbanp capaity                942,941      959,741  1,028,741    1,047,141   1,147,241  1,228,741
ected  ,in stations (DSL's)           763,000      796,450    835,040    877,680    920,50    989,775
C4onected extesions                  767,700       789,700    811,700    833,700    856,100   881,100
Total connected stgtion. (telepone)  1,530,700    1,586,150   1,646,740   1,711,380  1,776,600  1,870,875
Tele exchang capActy                   14,112       15,072     15,972      16,312     16,712    17,512
Connected telex subscribers           11,382       11,832      12,332      13,032     13,782    14,382
Qulity of Service !/
No. of billng complaints
100 sub/mth/no.                          *30          .30       .25         .25       .25        .25
NO. of faults
- 100 sub/mnth/no.                      13.5         12.6       11.6        10.5       9.5        8.4
Effective calling rate (X)
- Budapest                              47.0         46.0       46.0        46.0      47.0       48.0
- local Ina                             53.0         53.0       54.0        55.0      56.0       56:5
- national long distance                52.0         52.0       52.0        54.0      55.0       56.0
- interational/inomng                   36.0         34.0       34.0        37.0      38.0       38.5



- 40 -
ANN  9
Paga r of 3
ThIZCOCJIICATIOiN  PLJEC'
Perfogumice Indietors
A-ce
Actual     Targts   - - - - - - Projected Idlcator - - - - - -
1986       1987        1988        1989       1990      1991
Operator aser 4im lisa
than 30 second (1)
- AR ecbange                            89.0         90.0       91.0        92.0      93.0      94.0
^ internatioml                          88o          89.0       90.0        91.0      92.0      93.0
Eficien  ±/
Eploydes/1,000 suscdban                   27           26         25          24       23         22
Trtanig volum in stdNW     mth        34,740       38,690     40,550      42,710    44,360     46,500
Qarreut prioes:
?elephone revenuelEL               12,871.1     14,658.0   15,638.7    16,165.7  16,076.7   16,018.3
Telex revenme/line                  4,749.6     60,058.5   60,710.0    60,673.6  60,431.0   61,272.0
Direct cost/DtL ox. dipr                         4,749.6    5,141.0     5,228.7   5,383.4    5,649.1
Costant p!!1ce:
Telephone revwuse/DEL              12,269.9     12,339.1   12,730.1    13,142.2  13,070.4   13,023.6
Telex revenue/lin                  63,565.8     60,058.5   60,710.0    60,873.6  60,431.0   61,272.0
Direc cost/DEL ex depr              4,566.9      4,566.9    4,569.7     4,469.0   4,423.5    4,504.8
Deb service coverae (lim"s)             18.9         45.1       13.4        11.6      10.4       7.8
Fet internal cssh
gneration as X of
invetamont program                    93.7         93.3       94.1        93.7      86.3       72.3
Historic (%):
Rate of return BTI                      22.3         24.2       23.8        22.0      18.6       15.5
i/ Figures relate to calenda years; incretunfs are for period January 1 through baceshss 31. Figures for a
single poise In Alma are as of Deceber 31 of the indicated year. Figures chrough 1990 have been included in
Seventh Five Year Plan approved by 001; 1991 is estimated by NP.



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
NIZC.U0 ICATIONS ,RWZCT
Performance Indicators
Based on finalized data for 1986, the indicative tarts shwm  above for 1987 have been agreed upon
betwee the Bonk and Mayar Poota as the firm targets for that year. The targets for the other years are only
projected an  would be cosidered as provisional trgets for the next year during the November review an would
be finalized follcuAng the May review by agreement beOween the Bank and MP on the basis of the progress reports
to be prepared by NP pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Project Agreaemnt as follows:
(a) MP vill prepare and furnish ths BDak not later than November 30 of each year a report of its
performence measured against cspacity, quality of service and efficieny targets, in the
formf gien8 above, and will revwi  such performance and prepare, In consul taion with the
Donk, appropriat corrective mnaures, if any; and
(b) Not later han May 31 of each year furnish actual data for the previous year snd agree with
the Dank on final performance argets for the current year.
Points (a) and (b) are swmrised below.
Date                 InforuBtion Supplied                                  Output
November 30     (i) astiustes for current year             (i) tentative target. for next year
(ii) projections for next year             (ii) initial corrective measures, if appropriate
May 31          (i) actuals for previous year              (i) firm agreed targets for current year
(ii) revised estimsat  for current year   (ii) corrective measr  for current year



- 42 -                      AN=  10
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
($ 000's)
- - Projected Schedule - -
IBRD Fiscal Year     Disbursement       Cumulative
Semester Ending      Per Semester   through Semester    Bank Profilea/
FY88
December 1987             1.7             L17                  0.7
June 1988                3.5               5.2                 5.6
FY89
December 1988             7.4             12.6                14.7
June 1989               11.1              23.7               26.6
FY90
December 1989            8.3              32,0               37.8
June 1990               11.8              43.8               48.3
FY91
December 1990            8.2              52.0               56.7
June 1991                8.0              60.0               63.0
FY92
December 1991             5.0             65.0               67.2
June 1992                2.8              67.8               70.0
FY93
December 1992             2.2             70.0               70l0
a/ In the absence of a Hungarian profile, disbursement profile based on an
appropriate EMENA profile. Minor adjustments effect project--specific
contract provision. In the case of the Hungarian rail road project
(which is the Hungarian project most similar to telecommunications)
actual disbursement is following the same EMENA pattern.



- 43-
Tertiary  Level                                    Mtid Love# &  Regional Administration                     Central Administrallon
bAoww _W ceo_Wc
tsa _ re        Oft* 
Om       Ra ftwv  X
Dahh@*b Gow                                                      o
. O W*WOW
t_  dh ZIP=          Ja OVOW4en
T._.  bd  1  P/Ot  COf 
ko&-o                                                                                                                                        It\x
"u_ v a ^_ ; d = \ i 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo
I  f  _  F__ \ \ F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot  _C1"<
PO"d                                              I                                                    \Iq                     ii1w  
_             o1                                                                          \          \wc"M}1^ a
I  wk l"e   t ^                                             A                 - tq          \\               1                       t1  
|cOwu      r ="xfc   -                                                                                                       1        
I /  ,-   ----w1     \            ,           ,11  1 SesHZ~~
= s X jw~~~~~~~~o~1oHXIdI      
MOO~ ~        ~ 1L.11   0                      
| T   h & _                            B                             |            \       X           X   5 w t              =~~~~~TCh*
SuNMEOt0n T_g40W1@                              |1/41_6 0M                                                                 |5 |          .
| __ulalSdW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~offf '''Td''
|.' PotElW_ClblW_tc /                DOWS TIONOIft
jap=a=_    -  ___   w                  and            /II _                                                          1   
Waft~~~~~~~~~~~ _tk       -                  I     I
mw_                  _         _         _    X                               --.                          1         Zn 
-1elf0Z.taftowc    aw.       &p,"I  I*  II,
Md*4w4"MvADfi*4p 
*                      -  I  I   IL                       *                                     I   I   I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft oso
%W         w*"T    _ h in                              1 /|PkI  ld
,Om"       ~ 
Iu c              am       _     _nI                                                   Ir    
SIptm                                             1/ 'I Il                                                                L ;L
ft                                                g     _zOld                        H       
W"Id                                            ,,                                , N 
I                                             *     /           



- 44                           ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
TELECOMHUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAGYAR POTA
Summary of Telecomunications Tariffsl/
(from July 1, 1986)
A.  Telephone
1.  Rental2/                                              Ft
Industrial line  -  business                      120 per month
-  residential                   40 per month
Party line       -  business                       80 per month
-  residential                   30 per month
2. Connection
Deposit
Individual line  -  business                       60,000
-  residential                    6,000
Party line       -  business                       40,000
-  residential                    4,000
Installation charged at cost
3. Local Call
Day   (07:00 h - 18:00 h)                           2 per 3 minutes
Night (18:00 h - 07:00 h)                           2 per 6 minutes
4. Long Distance Call
Day              -  Zone I                          2 per 40 seconds
-  Zone II                        2 per 20 seconds
-  Zone III                       2 per 15 seconds
Night            -  Zone I                          2 per 60 seconds
-  Zone II                        2 per 30 seconds
-  Zone III                       2 per 20 seconds
5.  International Call (per 3 minutes)
Europe                                             49.80 -  97.80
North Africa, Outer Europe                        108.00 - 225.00
Middle East, South Asia                           375.00
Caribbean, USA, Canada                            450.00
All other regions                                 540.00



- 45                             ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
B. Telex
Deposit                                               100,000
Rental      -  line                                       500 per month
-  equipment                                1,000 per month
Call        -  sane exchange area                         1.5 per  3 mns
- to other exchange area:
day   (08:00 h - 19:00 h)               1.5 per 36 secs
night (19:00 h - 08:00 h)               1.5 per 54 secs
C. Telegraph
Standard rate (minimum 10 words)                            1.20 per word
Urgent rate                                                  5.40 per word
D. Data
Deposit                                       100000 - 400,000
Rate        -  line                             1,200 -   4,800 per month
-  equipment                         800 -  13,000 per month
Call        -  same exchange area:
day (08:00 h - 19:00 h)       1.00 - 8.00 per minutes
*  night (19:00 h - 08:00 h)    0.75 - 6.00 per minutes
- to other exchange area:
day                           3.00 -12.00 per minutes
*  night                         2.25 - 9.00 per minutes
1/ Most call rates and selected other heads were increased 33% on July 1,
1986.
2/ All rental charges are expected to increase 100l from January 1, 1988,
according to the 7th Plan.



- 46 -                          ANNEX 13-A
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAGYAR POSTA
Income Statements
(Ft Billion)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Revenue
Total net revenue                  16.7     18.2      18.5     20.4      23.4
Personnel inc. insurance tax        3.9      4.5       4.9      6.0       6.8
Depreciation                        1.6      1.7       1,8      2.2       2.2
Interest                            -        -         -        -         0.1
Other cost                          6.6      7.4       7.7      8.0       9.6
Total expenses                     12.1     13,6      14.4     16.2      18.7
Profit Before Tax                   4.6      4.6       4.1      4.2       4.7
Less:  Municipal tax                0.7      0.7       0.6      0.6       0.7
Less:  Profit tax                   2.2      2.2       1.6      1.6       1.6
Profit After Tax                   0.7       1.7       1.9      2.0       2.4
Less:  Other tax and bonuses        0.5      0.2       O.V      0.5       0.8
Retained Earnings                   1.2      1.5       1.0      1.5       1.6
Rate of return (Z)                 21       19        16       15        16
Average net fixed assets          22.0      23.9      26.0     27.6      30.0
Personnel/T6tal expenses (%)       32       33        34       37        36
Operating ratio (Z)               73        75        78       79       80



- 47                             ANNEX 13-A
Page 2 of 3
HUNGARY
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAGYAR POSTA
Balance Sheets
(Ft Billion)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Assets
Gross fixed assets                 34.1     37.5      40.3     43.1      47.4
Less: Accumulated
depreciation               11.4      12.4     13.5      14.7     15.7
Net fixed assets                   22.7     25.1      26.8     28.4      31.7
Work-in-progress                    209      2.9       3.8      5.2       4.9
Other long term assets              0.2      0.3       0.3      0.4       0.4
Inventory                           2.5      2.6       2.7      3.1       4.0
Accounts receivable                 0.9      0.9       1.0      1.4       1.4
Other receivables                   0.5      0.4       0.3      0.9       0.7
Cash and bank                       3.3      4.0       3.0      1.8       2.1
Total current assets                7.2      7.9       700      7.2       8.2
Total                         33.0      36.2     37.9      41.2     45.2
m      _        _m_
Liabilities
Reserves and funds                 30.4     33.4      35.6     38.1      41.1
Current year profit                 1.7      1.6       1.9      2.0       2.4
Total equity                      32e1      35.0      37.5     40.1      43.5
Long term debt                     -         -        -         -        -
Medium term debt                    0.8      0.8       0.8      0.9       1.0
Accounts payable                    0.3      0.3       0.2      0.4       0.4
Short term loans                   -         -        -         -        0.53]
Other payables                              _1(0.2)1/   0,11/   (0.5)1/  (0.2)/  (0.2})/
Total current liabilities           0.1      0.4      (0.3)     0.2      0.7
Total                         33.0      36.2     37.9      41.2     45.2
_- L_                      _
Total debt/Total debt
plus equity (Z)                  3         4        1         3        4
Current ratio (times)             72.0      19.8      -        86.0      11.7
Acid test (times)                  47.0     13.3       -       20.5       6.0
Inventory/Gross
Fixed Assets (%)                 7         7         J        7        8
1/ Indicates advance payment on tax liability included.
2/ Includes current portion of long term loans.



48 -                          ANNEX 13-A
Page 3 of 3
HUNGARY
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAGYAR POSTA
Funds Flow Statements
(Ft Billion)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
Sources
Profit after tax and bonus         1.2       1.4      1.0       1.5      1.6
Add:  depreciation                 1.6       1.7      1.8       2.2      2.2
Internal cash generation           2.8       3.1      2.8       3.7      3.8
Central investment funding         1.2       0.4      0.5       0.7      0.9
Other sources&                     1.0       0.6      0.6       -        0.9
Borrowings                         -         -        -         0.1      0.5
Total                          5.0       4.1      3.9      4.5       6.1
Applications
Investments                        2.9       3.5      4.2      4.8       5.5
Debt service repayment             0.1       -        -        -         0.1
Changes in non-current
liabilities                      -        -         -        (0.2)    (0.2)
Other uses1/                       - -                -         0.3      -
Increase (decrease)
in working capital               1.0      -         0.7      0.8       0.3
Increase (decrease)
in cash                          1.0      0.6      (1.0)    (1.2)      0.4
Total                          5.0      4.1       3.9      4.5       6.1
_o- _ _
Internal cash generation
as % Investments                97       89        67       77        69
1/ Unidentified movements of cash.



ANNEX 13-5
Page I of 2
HUNGARY
TELECOMWUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAGYAR POSTA
Pro-forms Income Statements for Telecommunications
(Pt million)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Revenue
Telephone
PBX                             1,047    1,110    1,160    1,232    1,278
Subscriber charges              1,221    1,331    1,407    1,452    1,511
Local                           1,534    1,679    1,731    1,762    1,732
Long distance                   1,806    1,908    2,131    2,365    2,459
International                     497      601       738    1 055    1 470
Subtotal                      6,016    6,757    7,271    7,976    8,580
Telex                             455       542      540       596      614
Telegraph and data                374       381      412       427      437
Total Revenue              6,845    7,680   8e,22 8223            9,631
Direct Costs
Personnel inc. insurance tax    1,126    1,315    1,454    1,773    2,022
Other operating costs               677       734      785       878    1,309
Depreciation                        994    1,073    1,190    1,578    1,607
Total Direct Costs            2,797    3,122    3,429    4,229    4,938
Operating Margin                  4,048    4,558    4,794    4,770    4,693
Allocation of overhead              343       396      496       518      622
Net Profit Before Tax             3,705    4,162    4,298    4,252    4,071
--- _
Municipal tax                       556       625      645       638      611
Profit tax                        1,418    1,595    1,644    1,627    1,425
Wage tax                            115       154      213       107      149
Subtotal                        2,089    2,374    2,502    2,372    2,184
l_=  __
Profit After Tax                  1,617    1,795    1,796    1,881    1,887
Bonuses                              35        49       50        60       62
Retained Earnings                 1,582    1,746    1,746    1,821    1,825
Average net fixed assets         11,986   13,624   16,702   17,761   19,195
Rate of return (Z)                   31        31       26        24       21
Operating ratio (2)                  46        46       48        53       58
Average DELs ('000)                 627       646      666       691      722
Telephone Revenue/DEL             9,595   10,460   10,917   11,541   11,884
Average telex lines (no.)         8,395    8,941    8,492   10,027   10,750
Telex revenue/Telex line         54,199   60,620   56,890   59,440   57,116
Direct costs/DEL                  4,461    4,833    5,149    6,120    6,839
Staff (no.)                      18,462   18,950   19,339   19,762   20,250
Staff/1,000 DELs (no.)               29        29       29        28       27



_ 50 -
ANNEX 13-B
Page 2 of 2
HUNGARY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
NAGYAR POSTA
Pro-forma Funds Flow Statements for Telecommunications
(Ft million)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
Sources
Profit after tax and bonus        1,582    1,746    1,746    1,821    1,825
Add:  depreciation               1,114    1,203    1,335    1,719    1,724
Internal cash generation         2,696    2,949    3,081    3,540    3,549
Centrar investment funds         1,051       340      434       690      808
Total Sources                3,747    3,289    3,515    4,230    4,357
Applications
Investments                      2,091    2,322    2,421    3,268    4,237
Change in working capital          191       118        8      306       476
Total Applications           2,282    2,440    2,429    3,574    4,713
Contribution to nontelecom       1,465       849    1,086       656     (356)
Internal cash generation as X
investments                      129       127      127       108       84
1/ Includes depreciation under overhead.



-51                                             AM  14
1poe 1 of 8
Fait tELMaICm I0          M t
Tslggmmlcatlm  Inu  Statneut
(Ft ullieuo
96    57    19             99    19"0     l9      I2
Tolqophn
Inaribr chirps
tal
Residut                                    207.7   219.3   465.7   49.9   53.2   554.8   5.4
bts                                        311.5   316.3   642.3   62.4   66.7        7.    M.1
Lum     lus at*ur                          1137.1  1445    1439.9  156.   1571.6  156.3  1735.
botul                                      567.0   985.0  257.   24.3  273.3 23360  30.0
tCll ronu
Lcal                                       1970.6  2447.9  250.3  2653.9  270.4  25.   250
Lan distance                               2.9  3627.9  4176.0  4651.2  40.5  5079.5  10.6
lnt1Zueu                                   5654.9  1742.4  1974.0  2275   2419.9  263.3  2965.1
L     tpayms                                540.0   500    6.0   7l0.0   932.0   W0.0   96.
iditlpayts                                  60.0   720.0   290.0  I00.0   930.0   995.0  545.0
u  ttal                                    6455.1  17.2  3740.3  9693.3  50l6.0  10670.9  520
Total M                                     1350.0  536     1370.0  1380.0  1400.0  1410.0  1420.0
Totd td_6hu                                969   11319.2  1266.7  13M7.  14331.3  5496.3 55719.9
Tle                                         633.0   697.1   733.5   m.0   610.2   354.0   895.
Auisnpasymts                                 73.0    97.0   100.0   100.0   115.0   5550   1161.0
Totd tl.                                    751.0   79.I    33.5   372.0   925.2   969.0  1013.0
Total tlara                                 43.3   433.6   54.0   59.5    5.0    70.O   5O.0
Dat and nar                                  21.0    24.0   23.0    31.6    35.5    40.0    10.0
1571. 1                                    5gI26L. 152579   4060.2   180.7  1531.0 I15.9  17362.3
Buff                                       5927.3  2132.0  2310.0  256.0  2792.0  292.   3197.0
atwrals 6 ottr                              163L3  1734.2  1094.6  192       204S   2397.0  2590.0
i   tioa                                    1I94.0  2050   2405.0  2713.0  3114.0  350.0  403o
TAL  lEtCT CUln                            505.1   961.2  653    7185.4  7i9.5   176A  "912.0
Wt3l1  NMII                                 521.7  6614.7  7466.4  799.3  79.5  767.2  7S
Joint wlces
Staf                                        367.2   40LO .0  0.0    04.0    20    552.4   605.0
0th.,                                       193.4   359.4   409.0   445.4    5.3   701.9   159.3
&*ttl                                      50.6   7.           ..    4.6  10107.3  5254.2  1464.3
£t tWIt 3 1 tAV IS l    LMS   T             4765.1  543  606.   704L7   612.2  6413.0  646.
LNOItOA t  (lah   Wl)                         0.0      3.0    20.2    65.5   135.0   190.9   207.9
Intergt (Other)                         49.9   12.4   166.0   225.9   2052    16.0   1330
Principal (os                            70.0   113.0   182.4   16I.  130.0   14.0   137.0
PriKipal  StAi lo)                        040    0.0      0.0   510.0   220.0   220.0   220.0
Tau_eoit ro                             5.0   1535.0  IU7.    71.0  1709.0  180.0  1930.0
WT 93It71 FOR 711 FUIOIEt                  4063.3  4070.9  413.0  4771.2  433.0  3107.1  35.6
Frit ta                                     163.3  1623   15645.2  5906S   13.2   555.6  1401,4
kucipd tu                                   612.5   61o.4   692.0   715.7   649.9   5.4   53.
KY 497t mm13 PUPIT W   MaiCIPU. TY         10N35.3  1635.9  20759  2147.0  1949.3  5750.5  1576.6
3*31 FOR 1  TM AN ND M1                    237I.4  I733.   1718.7  1762.7  55232  1309.5  1111.3
lap ta                                      15.0   172.9   13.3 * 207.2   226         229.5   235.6
Prayousi,s tax                               61.6    67.4    73.8    80.6    88.4    99.5    90.4
W" p*t 941.6   lOLl 13.6   124.3   136.0   137.7   139.1
utloI  9Wn1                                2065.0  3022.6  33262  34.3  33A7.6  3054  295



- 52 -
ANNEX  14
Page 2 of 8
HASYA POSTA
FIRST TELECWNICATIONS PROJECT
Teloscouunications Funds Floa Stateoent
(Ft sillion)
1986      97      199      1989     1990     1991      1992
SOURCES
Profit after tax before debt service            2200.8   3265.2   3694.8  4009.3  3977.8  3817.3   3698.3
Adds DeprecIation                               1941.0   2095.0   2405.0   2713.0   3114.0   3560.0   4035.0
Add: Subscriber deposits                         312.0    463.0    504.0    606.0    755.0    790.0    820.0
Internal Cash 6eneration                        4453.8   5923.2   6603.8   7329.3  7846.8   8167.3  8553.3
State equity and grants                         1167.0   1400.0   1800.0   2133.0  2500.0   2600.0   2600.0
Nunicipal equity and grants                      106.0    305.0     9.0    468.0    59.0    320.0    450.0
Borrowings
world Bank                                        0.0     76.5    35.5   765.0    976.5    661.5    315.0
loods                                           530.0    712.0    725.0    445.0    193.0    450.0    780.0
State loan                                      200.0    300.0    500.0    600.0   60.0    700.0    600.0
Other                                           470.0
Sub total                                      1200.0   1088.5   1580.5   1810.0   1769.5   1911.5   1695.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                   6926.8   8616.7  10276.3  11739.3  12715.3  12898.8  13298.3
APPLICATIONS
Investaont progras                             4504.0   6000.0  6867.0  7531.0   8344.0   8749.0   9800.0
Debt service
Principal
World Bank                                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    262.5    262.5
londs                                           70.0    113.0    182.4    162.1    130.0    145.0    137.0
State loan                                       0.0      0.0      0.0    110.0    120.0    220.0    220.0
Other                                          116.0    142.0    126.0     68.0     67.0     67.0      67.0
Sub total                                      186.0    255.e    308.4    340.1    417.0    694.5    686.5
Interest
World Oank                                       0.0      3.0     20.2     65.5    135.0    190.9    207.9
Bonds                                           26.0    113.0    154.0    167.0    156.0    131.0    108.0
Other                                           23.8     13.4     12.0     58.9     49.2     37.0      30.0
Sub total                                       49.8    129.4    186.2    291.4    340.2    358.9    345.9
Total debt service                               235.8   384.4    49.6   631.5    757.2   1053.4   1032.4
Change in receivables                             94.0    145.8    123.7     93.4     55.9     57.9      69.1
Change in payables                               -67.6    -25.2    -26.9    -23.7   -30.4    -40.1    -38.2
Change in inventories                            139.0    315.0    315.1    449.5    536.9    545.8    589.3
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                             4904.2   6920.0   7773.5   8691.7   9663.6  10366.0  11451.5
Contribution to non-telcse                      2022.6   1796.7   2502.7   3057.6  3051.8   2532.7   1846.8



5 53 -
ANNEX 14
NNW                        Page 3 of 8
NAOYAR MTA
FIRST TELECMMIUICAT1INS PROECT
TdetIKonications Statment of Intra-govrnmnt Transfers
(Ft million)
1986    1967    198      I98     1990    1991    12
FRII NABYAR POSTA (TELECOUN)
Taxation
Nioicipal ta                                412.5   610.6   692.0   715.7   649.9   593.4   525.5
Profit tax                                  1633.3  1428.4  1945.2  1906.5  1733.2  1555.4  1401.4
Other ta                                    219.6   240.4   263.1   286.0   315.2   319.0   322.1
sub total                                  2465.5  2479.4  2800.3  2912.1  2691.3  2459.0  2249.1
Debt srvice
Loan repaymt                                  0.0      0.0     0.0   110.0   220.0   220.0   220.0
Loan interet                                  0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Sub total                                     0.0      0.0     0.0   110.0   220.0   220.0   220.0
Contributio  to nn-telecoe                 2022.4  1794.7  2502.7  3057.6  3051.8  2532.7  1844.9
TOTAL                                      4488.1  4276.1  5303.0  4079.7  5970.1  5210.7  4315.9
tO IASM P0A (TELERMO)
invetment
State equity and grant                     1167.0  1400.0  1800.0  2133.0  2500.0  2600.0  2600.0
Drrowinp
State loans                                 200.0   300.0   500.0   600.0   600.0   700.0   600.0
TOTAL                                      1367.0  1700.0  2300.0  2733.0  3100.0  3300.0  3200.0
DALARM                                    -3121.1 -2576.1 -3003.0 -3346.7 -2870.1 -1910.7 -1115.9



- 54 -
ANNE -14
Page 4 of 8
NWSRY
RAYAR P05TA
FIRSI TELECONNUNICATIONS PRWOECT
Perforoance Ratios
1986     1907     1988     1m       1990    l199      199
Staff/OOODELs                 no                 27.1    26.5    25.8    25.0    24.3    23.4          22.4
Current aprices:
Telephone revenueoDEL        Ft              12871.1 14535.1  15537.0  16049.0  15948.7  158f9.7  1593.5
Telex revenue/line           Ft              64158.1  60415.6  68986.9 69758.9 69008.7  b68b7.8 69350.3
Direct cost/DEL ex. depr     Ft               4749.6   4964.6   5141.0  5228.7   5393.4   5649.1   5873.9
Constant pricess
Telephone revenue/DEL        Ft              12269.9  12235.0  12631.7  13049.0  12966.4  12924.2  12994.7
Telex revenue/line           Ft              63M5.8  61008.4  60835.0  6033.9  60854.3 60465.4 61155.5
Direct costIDEL ex depr      Ft               4566.9  4598.4  4569.7  4469.0  4423.5  4504.8  4549.9
Outpay ent/International      X                  79.4     80.6    93.5    87.2    88.4    89.4    91.1
npayeent/Outpayent            2                 125.9   124.1    119.7   114.7   113.1    111.0    109.1
Debt serwvice coverage        tioes              18.9    15.1      13.4     11.6    .10.4      7.8      8.3
Net internal cash
gneration as t of
investent progras I          2                  93.7    90.6    89.0    88.9    85.0         81.3    76.7
et internal cash
generation as 2 of
investment progran II        Z                  80.3    84.5    84.9       84.4    83.0    76.7
Historic:
Rate of return ITI            2                  22.3    24.2    23.8    22.0    18.6    15.5    13.1
Rate of return ATBI           1                  10.3     13.5    13.3      12.5    10.9       9.2      7.9
Revalued:
Rate of return STI            2                  14.9    12.9      13.5    13.4    12.1    10.6         9.5
Rate of return ATBI           2                   6.9      7.2      7.5      7.6      7.0      6.3      5.8



-55                 URY                                ANNEX 14
MAGYAR POSTA                          Page      of 8
FIRST TELECOMNUNICATIONS PUNECT
Key Assumptions,
1916     1997     1988     1989     1990     1991      1992
....  ....  ....    ----              ...._----
REYENUE
Telephone
DELs (end year)
Residential                  000               519.2   549.2   592.1    619.8    656.5   693.5   730.5
Ousiness                     000               222.5    225.9    229.4   233.0   230.1    242.1   246.1
Public                       000                 20.3     21.4     22.5     23.9    25.9      26.9     27.9
Total                        000                762.0   795.5    834.0    876.7   920.5    962.5   1004.5
DELs (aid year)               000                750.4    778.9    814.8    855.4   898.6    91.5    993.5
DELs adde                     000                 23.2     29.4     36.0     40.6     43.3     42.9    42.0
Local callsf\
Calls (mnual)                Billion             83.0    82.0      90.0     78.0    75.0      70.0    60.0
Impulsn  (automatic)         million           1121.0   1190.0   1240.0   t290.0   1349.0   1398.0   1454.0
Call equivalents             aillion            913.4    963.5    "9.5   1033.6   1073.5  1105.6   1137.0
Call/DEL                     no                1217.2   1237.2   1225.6   1209.3   1194.7   1174.2   1156.1
Charge/call                  Ft                   2.2      2.6      2.6      2.6      2.6      2.6       2.6
Long distance
Calls lmanual)               million             39.2    39.0      40.0      0.0    40.0      40.0      40.0
Impulses (autoutic)          million          1097.0   1200.0   1440.0   1675.0   1790.0   1901.0   2005.0
Call equivalents             million            130.6    139.0    160.0    179.6    199.2    198.4    207.1
Call/DEL                     no                 174.1    178.5    196.4    210.0    210.5    210.7    210.6
Charge/call                  Ft                  22.4     26.1     26.1     25.9     25.8     25.6      25.5
International (IOutgoing)
Calls (manual)               million              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
Impulses (automatic)         million           727.5    802.0    962.0   1060.0   1130.0   1240.0   1401.0
Calls equivalent             million             13.9     15.3     16.3     19.8     21.1     23.0      25.9
Call/DEL                     no                  18.6     19.6     20.0     23.2     23.5     24.5     26.3
Charge/all                   F ft               115.9    114.2    114.8    114.8    114.7    114.4    114.3
Outpayeent                   Ft oillion         540.0    590.0    660.0    750.0    822.0    890.0    960.0
International (incoming)
Inpayment - telephone        Ft million        680.0   720.0   790.0    960.0    930.0   M99.0   1054.0
Inpaymnt - telex             Ft million         73.0     97.0    100.0    100.0    115.0    115.0    118.0
Rental
Charge/DEL
Residential                 Ft                400.0    400.0   800.0    799.9    900.0    900.0    800.0
Business                    Ft                1400.0   1400.2   2799.9   2800.0   2800.1   2900.1   2900.1
Telex
Lines tend year)              no               11392.0  11832.0  12332.0  13032.0  13782.0  14482.0  14732.0
Lines (aid year)              no               11092.0  11607.0  12082.0  12692.0  13407.0  14132.0  14607.0
Lines added                   no                600.0    525.0    475.0    600.0    725.0    725.0    475.0
Revenuelline                  Ft              57570.8  60059.6  60710.1  60973.7  60431.1  60430.2  61272.0



- 56-
ANIRB 14
Page 6 of 8
(con't. from previous page)
COSTS
Salary
Staff                       000             20055.0 21060.0 21490.0 21919.0  22358.0 27500.0 22500.0
Sl ay/staff                 Ft              76505.0 8209.0 68082.0  94512.0 101412.0 102000.0 103000.0
Social insurance rate        Z                  1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4
Total staff cost/rvenue     1                  22.1    21.0    20.7    20.9    21.6    21.8    22.1
Depreciation
lepreciation rate            2                  5.5     5.2      5.2      5.1     5.0      5.0      5.0
Joint sevicos
Joint  rvices/direct costs  2                  10.2    12.9    13.0    13.2    13.7    14.1    14.9
Taxation
Profit ta                    2                 40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
Nunitipal tax                2                 15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
Vage tax                    I                  10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Property tax                 2                  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Progressive tax              2                  3.9     3.9      3.9      3.9     3.9      3.9      3.9
Bonus paynts                 2                  6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
ANSTS
Historic cost
gross fixed assts           Ft so           3502.0  40652.0 4594.0  53.0  62.0  71441.0 61262.0
Net fixed assets            Ft an           22564.0  25716.0  29724.0 34194.0 38973.0  43979.0 49251.0
Avrage net fixed asets      Ft an           21380.0 24151.0 27721.0 31954.0 3M.0 41476.0  46615.0
Inventories                 Ft an            2124.1  2439.1  2754.2  3203.7  370.6  4286.5  45.7
Revaluation
Bross Fixed Assets          Ft an           68560.0 71595.0  75060.0  76903.0 62845.0 66625.0  0405.0
et Fixed Anssts             Ft on           43750.0  47180.0 50757.0  54510.0 56455.0 625Y9.0 6030.0
Average Net Flied Assets    Ft on           31963.0 45465.0  46968.5 52633.5 56462.5 60527.0 64314.5
ECOIONIC
Inflation rate              19852100          104.0   108.2   112.5   117.0   121.7   125.4   129.1
Tariff index                19I5s100
telephone                                    104.9   118.6   123.0   123.0   123.0   123.0   123.0
Telex                                        100.9   102.1   113.4   113.4   113.4   113.4   113.4



- 5?-                            ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 8
Hungary First Telecommunications Project
Magyar PostAt Projected Financial Statements 1986-1992
List of explanatory notes
Key Assumptions
a) Local call automatic traffic averages 1.35 impulses per call
where 1 impulse is equal to 3 minutes. This is projected
constant.
b) Long distance automatic traffic averages 12 impulses per
calls, the length of each impulse depending on the zone called.
This is projected constant.
c). International automatic traffic averages 56.25 impulses per
call' This is projected constant. Outgoing international tra++ic
is expected to increase relatively faster then incoming as the
quality of the local network and switching facilities improve.
d) Rental charges for telephone are projected with a constant
factor for the relative weighting of single and party lines for
business and for residential subscribers ('In 1986, approximately
85% of residential subscribers were party but only 25% of
business. The effect of the expected 100% tariff increase of
Janutary 1, 1988 is built in.
e) Staff numbers are expected to rise 2% per annum through 1990
and then remain constant. Salary per staff increases 7.3% per
annum through 1990 representing a marginal annual real
increase. The social insurance rate is assumed constant at 40%.
f) Taxes are assumed constant at their 1986 levels, though in
practice are subject to revision annually. The average expected
total tax is 41-/ of pretax profit in the 7th Plan period. Bonuses
are projected at their 1986 level of 6% of total salary, though
in practice they are discretionary and dependent on actual profit
performance in the proceeding year.
g) The increase in gross fixed assets is related to the
transfer from work--in-progress as assets become revenue
generating. On average work-in-progress is transferred equally
over two succeeding years.
h) Depreciation of fixed assets tends to an average of 5% per
annum.
i) Inventories are assumed constant at 6% of gross fix-d
assets.
j) Revaluation is on the basis of a constant $2,000 per DEL
equivalents, which is the best estimate of replacement cost.
k) Tariff indices for telephone and telex include only those
changes originally projected for the 7th Plan period. They do not
take into account further changes consequent to the tariff study
or to the need to meet financial covenants under the World Bank
project.



- S8-
ANNEX 14
Page 8 of 8
_2
Telecommunications Income Statement
a) Revenue from subscribers to the dedicated data network only
are included under "Data and other".
b) Joint services includes overhead allocated to
telecommunications including central administration expenses.
c) Interest for the World Bank loan is assumed to be 8% plus a
0.5% commitment charge on undisbursed amounts.
d) Principal repayments on bonds which have to be made before
tax are made over a period of 10 years. Interest payments of
average 7 % per annum are included under other interest charges.
e) Revenue deriving from the 33% increase in tariffs from July
1 1986 is exempt from tax. This has been agreed at 16.5%
telephone of revenue between MP and government.
f) The State loan of Ft 2.2 bn for the 7th Plan is to be repaid
free of interest over a 10 year period.
Telecommunications Funds Flow Statement
a) Agreed State equity contribution to telecommunications in
the 7th Plan is Ft 9 bn.
b) World Bank loan to be paid back over a period of 15 years in
equal principal amounts and inclusive of 3 years grace.
c) Change in receivables reflects increases in revenue together
with maintenance of receivables at one month billing equivalent.
d) Change in payables reflects one month's equivalent of direct
costs excluding depreciation.
Performance Ratios
a) Net internal cash generation as % of investment program is
measured in two ways, taking into account only that years
investment (l) and taking a three year moving average on
investment (I1).
b) Rates of return are calculated before tax and interest (BTI)
and after tax and before interest (ATBI).



-59-                         ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 6
Hungary
Magyar Posta
First Telecommunications Project
Return on Investment
1. Investments on which the rate of return is calculated are the
new works over the period 1986-91.
2. The benefit period extends from 1986 to 2010 at the end of
which period on average all equipment is expected to have
completed its useful life.
3. Capital expenditure is per the 1986-91 program of new works
with price contingencies and all transfer payments, including
customs duties excluded. Capital expenditure is valued as are all
other streams in the calculation at constant 1985 prices.The
assumed rate of exchange is Ft45 = $1.
4. Benefits are those operating revenues valued at actual and
et-pected tariffs which would not have been obtainable without the
project. These consist of a) incremental revenue from 204,500 new
telephone subscribers and 113,000 subscribers who would otherwise
have lost service as well as Sp500 new telex subscribers each
valued at average consumption per subscriber; b) deposits for
connection of these new subscribers and c) revenue from all
subscribers that would have been foregone without the project ,
in which case revenue per subscriber was expected on average to
fall 3% per annum in real terms in continuation of the trend of
the past five years
5. Operating costs are a) incremental operating costs of
providing servuce to the incremental subscribers valued at
average operating cost per subscriber and b) additional operating
costs incurred to avoid the otherwise expected fall in revenue
per subscriber
6. A summary table of the cost and benefit streams calculated on
the basis of these assumptions is attached. The financial rate of
return on the stream of net benefits is 15%



60 -                        ANNE 15
Page 2 of 6
-2-
7. The firnancial rate of return however does not truly reflect
the net economic benefit from the new works. The value of access
to a telephone service ias far in excess of the nominal
connection deposit a subscriber must pay. Evidence such as rental
differentials between housing with or without access to a
telephone suggests a market price in the range 2 to 4 times the
actual charge. This differential is projected to persist as the
new works will be insufficient to reduce the waiting list for
service. For the minimum economic rate of return the connection
benefit to new subscribers has been revalued. There is no
revaluation of call revenue where actual tariffs more or less
equate to constant real tariffs. The minimum economic rate of
return is 29%. No account in this calculation is taken of the
substantial external benefits accruing to the economy from an
improved telecommunications service.
S..Sensitivity tests carries out on the economic rate
of return produced the following results:
- With a 20% increase in capital cost, the rate of return
falls to 19%
- With a 20% increase in operating cost, the rate
of return falls to 25%
- With a 20% reduction in operating revenue, the rate of
return falls to 17%
- With a combination of the above, the rate of return falls to
10%
- With a 2 year delay in benefits, the rate of return falls to
13%



-61                                                  ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 6
HUNSARY
YAR POSTA
FIRST TELECOMNICALTONS PROJECT
Rate of Return Anal7lis
4arksheot - Basic Oita
Cu.ul.
Total    tncr.    Incr.    Total    InCr.    licr.
OfVicial Price    Tel"whaneTlet                 ELs      DELs     DELI      '.I.e    Toles    Telex
Year          Es Rate  Doflator Osflator Deflator
1'966                45      104       105      10t             750400    23200    23200    11082          0         0
1967                45       108       119      102             778600    23400    51600    11607        52!      525
1998               45       t11       123        4             314600     600    87600    12082         475     1000
1989                45        1?       :23      113             055400    40400   129200    12682        600     1600
1990                45       122       123      113             89860     43300   171500    13407        72s     2325
1991                45       125       123      113             94150     42900   214400    14132        725     3050
1992                45       129       12$      113            .983500    42000   256400    14601        475     3525
1993                45       '29       123      113            1044700    61200   317600    14607          0     3525
1994                45       129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
1995                45       129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
199                 45       129      123       113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
1997                45       129       !23       13            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
1;99                45       !29      123       13             1044700        0   317600    14607          0     M3.5
iff9                45      '29       123       :1i            1044700        0   317600    j4607          Q     3523
200                  45      .29       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     35
2001                45       129       12'      '13            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
2002               ,45       129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
03                 45       129       23       113            1440           0   317600    14607        . Q      325
204                 45       129       123      113            104470         0   317600    140            0     3525
2005                45       129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
200z                45       129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
2007                 45      129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     35:5
2009                 45      129-      123      113            104470         0   317600    14607          0     3525
2009                45       129       123      113            1044700        0   317600    14607          0     3525
2010                45       129       123      113            104470         0   317400    14407          0     3525



- 62 -
ANNEXC 15
HUMYM RY                                  Page  4 of 6
"46YAR POSTO
FIRST TELECORUNICATIOtS PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysis
Norksheet - Basic Data
I                                    11
Op. Rev. Op. Rev. Op. Cost           Op. Rev. Op. Rev. Op. Cost            TelephoneTelex              Incr.    Incr.    Incr.
per DEL  per tix  per DEL            per DEL  per tbx  per DEL             Deposit  Deposit            Tel Rev  Tls Rev  Op. Cost
Yea           Ft        Ft       Ft                 Ft       Ft       Ft                 Ft       Ft                 Ft n    Ft n    Ft n
1966             12270    635Db      4567                368     1909         0             29650   10000                1249         0      106
19B7             12235    67000      4588                378     2071        0              27710    93458               1713       1O8      237
1968             12632    6083       4570                402     1936        0              25897    97344               2366      126       400
1999             13048    60634      4469                427     2046        0              24203    81630               3021      172       573
1990             12966    60854      4424                438     2116        C              22620    76290               3597      225       759
1991             12924    61156      4505                450     2126        0              21140    71299               4101      269       966
1992             13000    62000      4550                466     2220        0              19757    66634               4621      283      1167
1993             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              19465    62275               5746      251      1429
1994             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      '5i      1429
1995             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251      1429
096              13000    62000      4500               466      2220        0              19465    62275               4616      251     1429
1997             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              19465    62275               4616      251      1429
i9"              13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251      1429
199              13000    62000      4500               466      2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251     1429
2000             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      25t      1429
2001             13000    62000      4500               466      2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251      1429
2502             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251      1429
2003             13000    6200       4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251      1429
2004             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251      1429
2Q05             13000    62000      4500               466      2220        0              19465    62275               4616      251     1429
2006             13000    62000      4500                466     2220        0              19465    62275               4616      251      1429
2C07             13000    62000    4500                  466     2220        0              19465    62275               4616      251      1429
2009  '          13000  -62000       4500                466     2220        0              19465    62275               4616      251      1429
200              13000    62000      4500               466      2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251     1429
2010             13000    62000      4500               466      2220        0              18465    62275               4616      251     1429
*Ites
I - averqe consuoption for incroemntal subscribers
II- avrided lost consumption for all subscribers



-63-
ANNU 15
HIINSARY                         Page  5 of 6
RABYAR POSTA
FIRST TELECOIMUNICAtIONS PROJECT
Rate of Riturn Analysis
Discounted Cash Flos - FRR and ERR
A        A        A                           B                  8                           C        C         C
Capital  Total    Total    Net                          Telephone          Incr.                      Total    Total    Net
Cost     Covt       enef it  Denef it                   Deposit            Tel Rev                    Cost      Oenef it  Benefit
Year          Ft an   *Ft in    Ft n    Ft n                          Ft an              Ft n                        Ft an    Ft a      Ft an
1986              1613      1719     1249     -470                       59300               1937                        1719     1937       219
1987              3406      3643     1821    -1822                       59300               2610                        3643     2718      -925
199               5486      5986     2492    -3394                       59300               3569                        5886     3695    -2192
1989              6281     6854      3193    -3661                       59300               4446                        6854     4618    -2236
1990              6939      7599     3822    -3776                       59300               5185                        7598     5410    -2188
1991              7396      9362     4370    -3992                       59300               5739                        9362     6007    -2355
1992                 0      1167     4904     3737                       59300               6282                        1167     6565     539
1993                 0      1429     5997     4567                       59300               0245                        1429     8496     7067
1994                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4967     3437
1995                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4967     3437
1996                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4967     3437
1997                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4967     3437
1998                 0      1429     4d67     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4867     3437
199                  0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4867     3437
2000                 0      1429     4967     3437  -                    59300               4616                        1429     4967     3437
2001                 0      1429     4967     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4067     3437
2002                 0      1429     4967     3437                       59300               4616                        1429      867     3437
2003                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4867     3437
2004                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4867     3437
2005                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4067     3437
2006                 0      1429     4967     3437                       59300               4616                        1429      97      3437
2007                 0      1429     4        3437                       59300               4616                        1429     4967     3437
2009                 0      1429     4967     3437                       59300               4616                       1429      4967     3437
2009                 0      1429     4861     3437                       59300               4616                       1429      4867     3437
2010                 0      1429     4867     3437                       59300               4616                       1429      4867     3437
-                                     FRR*151                                                                                      ER291
Notes
A - se case FRR
B - Rinimus ctanoic values
C - Bas. case miniu  ERR



IIIStII POSTA
FIRST TOHuuIcATIoS PRECT
Rate of Ratut    balysis
ED   inuutivity ba15is
a        l        2                  3* A               a                  c         C        C                  8        D         0                  E        E          I
Total    Total    Ikt                 Total    Total   Rbt                 Total    total    lit                 Total    Total      at                Total    Total    Rt
Cost     Smeit   ufit                Cost       mofitt  hfit               Cost      Suoit h t    Ct Cst    Beneit h fit                               Cost     lneit  hiit
Ft Fa                   ts Ftwa  Ft a              Ft .    Ft     Ftn                    Ft     Ftn         Ft                 F ft a   Ft g     Ft .               Ft Fn ft  Fn ft a
193               2042      1937     -105               1740      193       19                1719     1614      -105               203      1614     -449               1719         0    -1719
w7                4324      271     -1IN                390      2716      -9                 3        2245    -1376                4371     2245    -2106               344          0    -34
1                 4M        349     -321                5         3495    -22                 5m        3019    -1097               1044     3079    -395                53E6      19      -39
193               6110      4418    -34                  9       4618    -2351               M41       3        -3004               6225     36E    -4377                 1        27e    -4134
19"0              6         5410    -3515               74        5410    -239                75"       4506    -30                 9117     4506    -4                  75        369     -390
Ml                9641      007    -36                  111        07    -24                   632     5N       -3                 1034      500     -50                 3362      4416    -3744
1992              1147      4545    533"                140        5       S5                 1147     1471      4304               1400     5471     w001               1167      5410     424
1993              1429      694      7o04               1715        9      4731               1429     7         5651               1715      00       53                 142      4007      4573
19"4              1429      43J7    34                  1715     4147      3152               142t     4014      2626               1715     4054     2340               1429       55      5134
199S              142       464      3437               1715    4MI        3152               1429     4         2426               1715     405       230                1429     649       7047
199                1429     4647      343               1715      4347     3152               1429     44U       2424               171145              2340              1429     4114      3435
1M                 1429     4867     3437               1715      47       3152               1429      4056     2624               1711     4         230                1429     404       3435
193                1429     467      347                1715      4347     31S2               1429      405      22                 1715     405       2340               1429     464       3435
19"                1429     447      33                 115 7     437      3152               1429      405      26                 1711      054      2340               1429     4344      3435
20                 142      437        37                171      447      3152               1429      4054     226         I       171     4054      240                129      43 45 
2001               1429     4IU7      3437              1715      4347     31S                1429      404      262                1715     405       230                1429     4344      3435
200                1429     47        3437              1715      4867     3152               1429      4054     22                 115      405          0               1429     4344      3435
2003               1429     437       3437              1711      4367     3152               1429      405      242                1715     4054      2340               1429      M4       3435
20                 12      47       3437               1711      437      3152               1429     4056      242                17t5     405       23                 1429     4944      3435
205                1429     47       3437               1715     4347      3152               1429     40U       2426               15       4054      230                1429     464       345
204                1429     47       3437               1715      4837     3152               1429     405       2424               1715     4054      230                1429     4044    3435
2007               149      4347     3437               171m5    4Ut       3152               142      405       2426               1715     4054      23                 1429     434       3435
200        1        429     467      3437               1711      4347     3152               1429     4014    U2                   1715     405       23m                1429     434       3435
2009               1429     4847     3437               1715      4067     3152               1429      405      2426               1715     404       2340               1429     4064      3435
2010               142t     467       33                2715      437      3252               1429      4054     2626               1715     454       2340               1429     434       3435
9134292                              EURM25Z                               £1R1M                                 flOt10                                E1ii13
A - 20M  incras  in capital cest
1 - 202 incras  it opIratiog cost
C - 20M   dr e in r                                                                                                                                                                           i
I - Coabinatien of A,l aD   C                                                                                                                                                                  0  U
E - 2 ya  delay in kwifts



- 65 -
ANNIEX 16
Page I of 3
.-
- _m
Objecdw                           PI2a Of Tlamtatlim                          ap/*d
L  FinAnAl
1. I*   use abeliati  of fhmal         (a) loom  muttoiC a  sbilt to   (a) -Ia covia  f    sam            in  acordaw
tcaaomft£ma am sati  to lae            *el bis, ebliui joia    s,              vii sue  rqogtti  tairinua.
a rA vAc dupama on S_ta  ba4p          etC.
a  ina"e fimn A
(b) sbu  widw tmf ed Olim               (b) tadudosi el_  to hap pape saw
aeod*lois, IstWireaimtal                as telej bahomm asdutlin byv 09/88. plan
eaaistomi  'dus mseasay.                df acKl  to b3 al.tu  I 12/88b
(c) ame" to tue fwX at fr so            (c) must mla o  iama]   fes in
- ¶    it mul   fan emut hwo           aeccadmm vidi tgmd rqartuz
* ~~    daia  sh  ijck.h _                                              lp
2. Fu,rdewlop atma     Maa   dA   (a) adRplm d  _Ag    POMMOtim fo0tua    (a) agreed                 fa toe be 
lntroAtbwosarsAl. adL to provide       for wlcm       u , tobe &*bjec         lagPas,ores fzm IN 198 aeao; maits
t1al aA ralse-  womaima t              fo amid eatsei edit,                    CD oms f9oft IT 18, to be awadlable aD
fjm%d1al podsitil andl p0_mot                                                  1_ tlatr dui lndo dew we ad of the
--oms.dati  in vial of                                                      flaoo  ga.
iintamhumctailzatlou aid me
fothe00min squratia of             (b) pop _raion defined coat  alme   n   (b) pra g   in a_ana              to be
lwewm o ual fsw Ws oslr                pCr taiff had for dLs cast ad of        cowAvia muy in easardAth   uwd
actIvites.                             aarra*Y W.Uobd ovelad; dA    8            octlz cepitweit.
ft"  of  _wdoIq   for  ases
-   -
iddfulfasios of aitablo rats d
3. Furte dewlopu.* of taf              (a) St*  Of taIff etActa      dnag to  (a) sIa  p-0  of aeO  t1 12/31/87; fira
an4mm aw  was   beto ot t,10           wodi   at rtume.              1epadt of au* ft 06/30/88
and blae th con o and di for
differa* tulAaOnalCai   SedAWes   (b) cAmIl With NU 3ak rs*r"              (b) pm of actin a taiffs  to  ppared ty
re_ilas   of d     sa4v ad hug         12/31/8
laoo asmidratian Mu DaiW
recoanAdelowm a 
qvts  atis.



- 66 -
ANNEX 16
-                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Paga 2 of 3
Wm m
'I-
PJa~ of ipew                                 Trpft/lzdcas
a. institutl=l stiwuSdz.
1. Frogimvei seaas"a of telaim*    (a) 'mug., %MMSan of iucrssm ad               (a) Uumfer ID be colaes Witid a  aIsomaral
caalmms ftom -4                         rai   dtoAcos                            anSm raunan by 1/31/89.
accolunta"lY.
(b) M affag&~  umal analm  to 1zomsm     (b) &duder of dacm"" ad roto lids aid
d          from       ~~~~~aqewmaam  of all odw  femibla aclvtisi
atof  o   Ulrnlto be coqla.s by and d
2. Fiwthwr 4"wlnpmt of                  (a) fouaaUica of plim for di1Utajzala    (a) Sb* amcadt,W to 4areg  'atm  of zuferanm
tWoommWadoRiw pUrlaul  ad               Cf tbe Minmr9.                           to be coolmaud by 06/30/88.  plqlialmu
d"dopont.                                                    fo I ~~~~~~~~~~~'arrmoo' dur.afhr, anisoit  acoatdhzg
to -sa "PC"It tqunmuitu.
(b) cmuSlai of aeofm    devalopot ad     (b)  (t) m*u saooadtzg to qegsd lano
trainifig -st.                                 Weofela   to be ouqlaed W 09/30/a8;
(ft) plm of &tianto be oqplea1tV
12/31/88;
(lli) orStisseiai and startW of ta.w b
09/3D013; Ad
(lv) wuter fl3y operatian  by 09/3D/90.
3. IWubew 4wippo~nt of gunqma           (a) so*  to Sam  amb, usfto  sdudnd   (a) so* accoviiixg to agredttw    of r efatinwom
irformidLon system.                     ansalsanowAdm1p ad lqaIini plai          to be xumilula kV 09/3D0188 plat o action;
of atIon,                                to te colat   ty' 12/31/88;9 ad iqlmta-
tics to pcooed durefefta, £mltwrdd
accordti to -ro r4partlin =*rauiein*
4. Pfartitr 6wuos1ipm    of atdiggilw   (a) Seu*  moth  IIIW cobells             (a) SO*M aCCOrdLz  to ggrdd Wm  of tevfowsi
opeatlat (traffic mmiaorio  and        OnL"Oeio  dsa"Aup and lop]lintlan         to bke QDWate by 06/3D/88; plan of actioun
dlgIO.tllg)                             Of actfor.                               to be mp)asa  by' 09/31/88; and lolinfta-
tdon to procM d tbeimatq, mmitwemd
aMCudLog to uegdd rqtet1zd ruqtdxatmts.
5.PLa ad inftrabac  eelitl  evLtM.  (a) as4* to  sass aau, usliW tomaduil   (a) M*a acocwd  inWt apoaI Wem of cdfenrw
.as; d"oop ad iopldms  plan         to be w.plutu  by o/30/89; plan of action
of action,                               to be 12/31/89; hwiaaw.mem of euodadA
service &riiV vomI*Aer of projec period.



- 67 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
Hmu
hd Pi
Cbj.actw                           Pl* of bJ1*ta*iu                              Turp/ _ndtcato
HI .E _
1.   1aMe avalulty0 f 001ullC,          (a) amm  rquired n      and leve of      (a) tO be    *td by 12/31/8B
tralad, 3pre sauff for ni digta         stf;  itdfy m z  ad trArg
tschve o.                               w-; Fique i        r a4  Brning
(b)  _lwAim  y equip and upSad tmd niz   (b) Progress to be  Imorid a   awrdizg to dgedW
oaerm, trsagLai  equpd    ad awse        repoIg re*drinis
mtidriaL. F&tablh and euip  ww
labs in traing sies.
(c) Il4  softwae t r for trainig         (c) mse Iem H. 2(b) abo'm.
ppoltOS prqtly, as avilabla
2. Train k4s and middleamnit In   (a)   pr relatld W to         r aiA taniW      (a) to ba cWlted by 12/88.
xatic_ and inm im  of a                 pli with hal of M.
4Mdai" olrad
telec_mmicatku uise,                (b) ewle pla  for sleacdo, recrA   (b) Proess to bh m*iored. acodl  to Woed
and trainAng of  rw .                    tePortim ruqiru.Ia trw*A X
---jecc paro.
IV. OP fatm    Poarflow
1. Furthw develop e£fficlai  of         (a) set perfos eapes, *xdtco             (a) greed laicaas gia In atta_hse
cperae, qalit  of avire parfor                    , rvie pefoamos                hetuto.
respa wi_vw   to uh"*.                  coswai to tarps, dstsdm
osrrmmctiLvsesa  dWr appropiate.



- 68 -
ANNEX 17-A
Page 1 of 1
UNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Technical Assistance Overview
Consultants
Year      Services       Training
No.    Project                        Executed   (manmontba)    (manmonths)
1      Plans for digitalization         1988           12            12
2      Software center and
training                    1987-89           6             15
3      Traffic engineering              1988           12            15
4      Telematic services            1988-90           10            19
5      Tariff structure study           1988           6             12
6      Management information
system                         1988           6             12
7      Telephone associations        1988-89           3              4.5
Contingency                                     5              -
Total                                        60             89.5



- 69 -                        ANNEX 17-B
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1. Digitalization Plan
1. Background
MP is in the process of changing over from analog to digital network
environment. To achieve an orderly transition, MP need a "Digitalization
Plan". The Plan should analyze the present situation, objectives of
changes, options available solutions proposed and time frame. Beside, the
existing elements and technical parameters of MP's fundamental plans should
be simultaneously updated in order to facilitate the digitalization of the
network.
Consultants assistance is sought to complement the work of MP experts
in preparing the Digitalization Plan and updating the fundamental plan.
Beside 12 manmontho of expert advise 12 manmonthe of counterpart study
visits and training abroad (will be organized). A separate study for
traffic engineering will be undertaken.
2. Objective
Part A. Revision and updating MP's telecommunications Master Plan with
specific emphasis on items relevant to the introduction of digital
technology in order to facilitate the digitalization of the network.
Part B. Strategy for Digitalization of the presently analog telephone
network for both switching and transmission fields, in order to maximize
the features and economies offered by digital switching and transmission
systems. Conceptual consideration toward ISDN.
3. Terms of Reverence
Part A.
1. The consultants should assist MP's experts in the revision and
updating of MP's Master Plan with specific emphasis on technical
parameters relevant to the introduction of digital technology.
This plan should include:
Routing Plan
Transmission Plan
Signalling Plan
Numbering Plan
Sychronization Plan



- 70 -
ANNEX 17-B
Page 2 of 2
Call Charging Plan
Traffic Management Plan
Service Quality Management Plan
Operation and Maintenance Plan
2. The assistance should be in two parts:
a) Initial review of existing situation in respect of MP's Master
Plan and MP's Terms of Reference for the preparation of the revised
and updating Master Plan and study visit abroad and; b) Review
six months later with MP's expert the revised and updated Master
Plan prepared by MP's experts after the study visits abroad.
(6 manmonths consultancy assistance and six manmonths study visits
and training for MP's counterpart experts abroad)
Part B
1. Definition of a strategy to introduce digital technology in the
present predominantly analogue HP's telephone network for both
switching and transmission field. Plans for digitalization of the
local, tandem and trunk telephone network, telex and data network,
relation with the existing analog network and the change-over
strategy.
2. This should, among others, include:
a) Selection of an appropriate development strategy taking into
account the Hungarian circumstances, available technology and
trends, and economic consiserations in 5, 10 and 15 years time
frame;
b) Reconfiguration and optimization of the multi-exchange areas,
c) Reconfiguration and optimization of the long distance network
according to the adopted strategy; and
d) Steps and benchmarks toward realization of ISDN concept in
Hungary.
3. The assistance should be in two parts:
a) Initial review of MPs available informations, knowledge and
thinking in respect of the introduction strategy for
digitalization including preparation of a work plan, terms of
references for the study to be prepared by MP's experts and plan
for study visits of MP's experts; and
b) Review six to eight months later the study prepared by MP's
expert after the study visits abroad. Refine and improve the
study. (six manmonths consultancy assistance and six manmonths
study visits and training for MP's counterpart experts abroad).



- 71 -                         ANNEX 17-C
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
2. Software Center
1. BACKGROUND
MP is in the process of digitilization of the telephone network; both
in switching and transmission areas. In order to prepare the orderly
introduction of digital SPC telephone exhanges in the national network, a
National Software Center will be established both to facilitate the
introduction and effective operation of the digital exchanges. An
important role of the software center will be the training of MP staff in
all aspects of software applications. Consultants assistance - 6 manmonths
is required to set up the center, define its role, organization, staffing
and program of work. MP counterpart expert will receive 15 manmonthe of
training abroad.
2. OBJECTIVE
i)   Propose the organization of the software center, staffing and program
of work.
ii) Prepare MP expert staff to operate, maintain and develop the centere
iii) Organize the software administration, maintenance, documentation,
validation;
iv)  Propose methods for evaluation and acceptance of SW packages;
v)   Undertake SW training of MP experts.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. ORGANIZATION OF THE SW CENTER
The consultant should assist MP expert to define the role,
organizational structure, equipment (hardware and software), staff and
operation of the SW center so that in 1990 it would be fully operational.
2. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
For the selected SPC switching system the SW center should:
i)   Organize software administration, documentation, maintenance and
fault evaluation



72 -                         ANNEX 17-C
Page 2 of-3
ii) Assist the operating exchanges in clearing major faults, SW
validation, acceptance tests, etco
iII) Organize regular in-house training and training abroad. Organize
updating courses. Evaluate the status of MP's expert staff in
the SW area.
The consultants should assist MP in achieving the ability to organize
and run the above activities on regular basis.
3. DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
The Sw center should collect information and update thes in respect of
SW development for the $PC digital exchanges both from suppliers,
ITU/CCIR/ISO, Academia and R&D institutions. The SW center should
collaborate with other Hungarian and foreign institutions active in the
field of software development. The experts of the SW center shold be able
to write specifications for SW for tendering of SPC digital exchanges,
participate in the validation of SW in imported SPC exchanges and
participate in SW adaptations and/or modifications as and when required.
The consultants should assist MP experts in achieving those
activities.
ORGANIZATION AND TIMING OF TEE ASSISTANCE
The consultants assistance is proposed to be in three parts,
approximately two manmontha each.
I. INITIAL PHASE
i)   Consultants will review MP's existing level of knowledge,
information available, plans, strategies, etc.;
ii) Consultants will conduct a one-week training session for HP
counterpart experts and agree on a plan of action including
preliminary organization, staffing 1W and SW needed for the
center. Plans for MP staff study visits including selections of
countries and institutions abroad and work on return.
II. INTERMEDIATE PHASE (6 months later)
After HP experts complete training abroad and finalize all
preparations agreed in initial phase, the consultants will review, correct
and refine NP's plans for the center. They will agree on the action plan
for the next 6 months. Plan of action to be completed by 12/31/99 latest.



- 73 _                        ANNEX 17-C
Page 3 of 3
III. FOLLOW UP ANALYSIS
The consultant will review the study and recoumendations prepared by
MP staff, and make final recommendations.
REPORTING REQUIREMENT
After each phase, the consultants will produce a report. The World
Bank would be given an opportunity to review and coment on each report
before the next phase begins.



ANNEX 17-D
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
3, Traffic Engineering
1. Background
MP is in the process of transition from analog to digital
telecoimunication network. A digitalization strategy is being prepared
which will deal also with the principles of traffic engineering.
Appreciating the importance of proper traffic engineering as a tool for
achieving higher network efficiency and as an input to proper network
planning and management, MP wishes with the help of consultants
(12 manmonths), to establish a proper organizational unit, staff it,
develop methods and procedures for regular traffic measurement and analysis
as prerequisites for proper traffic engineering in order to optimize the
utilization of the present network thereby maximizing the return on
invested assets.
2. Objective
i)   Study and recommend the organizational structure, staffing, methods
and procedures and work plans of traffic engineering units, both in
Central Administration and in Regional Directorates including
necessary instrumentations and Software tools.
ii) Network management. Study and propose the introduction of centralized
computer aided network management. Beside monitoring the traffic
flow, the center should be prepared to take appropriate remedial
actions in case of traffic overload and/or castastrophic traffic
disturbances.
iii) Review and analyze, with MP experts, the existing quality of service,
its indicators and devise an appropriate quality of service control
system to be used as a management tool in order to improve quality of
serviced.
3. TERMS OP REFERENCE
i)   The consultant should assist MP in establishing, staffing and
organizing the work of a Central Traffic Engineering Unit including
selection of trafic data to be systematically measured, analyzed and
processed in order to optimize the usage of the network. Make
available measured data and conclusion of analysis for planning
purposes. Propose imediate and long-term remedial actions regarding
traffic congestion in the national network.



- 75 -                          ANNEX 17-D
Page 2 of 2
ii)  Propose a list of instruments, SW tools, methods and processes for i)
above.
iii) Analyze the available options for network management for a) Budapest
and b) National network, using manual, automatic and computerized
systems and responsive to different levels of traffic overload.
Analyze the feasibility of separate or common Network Management
Center (NMC) for electromechanical and SPC digital exchanges. Analyze
the existing network and the evolving digital network and the
available options for NMC.
4.   Organization and Financina  of the Assistance
The consultants should propose the proper timing and organization of
the assistance so that the study be completed latest June 30, 1988, and an
action plan September 31, 1988. During the assistance 15 manmontha of
study visit and counterpart training should be organizaed for experts
abroad.
5.  Reporting ReLuirement
After each major phase, the consultants will produce a report. The
World Bank would be given an opportunity to review and comment on each and
on the final report.



- 76 -                         ANNEX 17-E
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
Magyar Posta
Telecommunications Project
4. Telematic Services
Background
1.        At present a combined SPC telex and circuit switched data
exchange is in operation in Hungary. The analog telephone network is used
for limited data transmission services. NP is in the process of changing
the analog telephone network to a digital network. The rudimentary
telematic services (telex, teletex, videotex, facsimle, etc.) shall be
expanded. Under the first World Bank project, MP is planning to expand
telex and circuit switched data services and study the possibility of
including a packet switched data network.
ObJectives
2.        Assistance of consultants is required for the study and
preparation of introduction strategy for new telematic services:
(a) study and definition of demand for data and telematic
services needed, pricing, legal and regulatory questions
of data and telematic services in Hungary in a 10 and 20
year perspective;
(b) study of optimization of different network such as teleic,
telegraph circuit and packet switched data networks in
line with projected demand under (a) above and in line
with MP's strategic development plans toward ISDN; and
(c) study the prevailing regulatory, service, legal and
tariff aspects of the nonvoice services their facility
provision taking into consideration the economic, social,
political and historical environment in Hungary.
3. Terms of Reference
3.1       Operation of telex and circuit switched data network:
- study and propose a concept of a multi-purpose national
telex and line switched data network including
requirement for service quality and OM organization; and
3.2       Interworking of text communications networks and service:



- 77 -
ANNEX 17-E
Page 2 of 2
-  analyze and project user demand for vldeutex, teletex,
facsimile and messages handling and other text
communications services. Propose technical solution of
the interworking of different networks (including,
international) in accordance with CCITT recommendations
and experience in developed countries, regulatory, tariff
and marketing experiences.
3.3       Telegraph, and other nonvoice data service in the new digital
network environment. Study and propose optimal technoeconomical solutions
for the transmissions facilities for nonvoice services in the new digital
network, including constraints and financial consequences of different
solutions. Network management and interrelations of voice and nonvoice
network management and quality of services.
3.4       Public packet switched networks:
- study and propose a public packet switched network
including, organization, equipment, facilities, services,
OM practices, tariff etc. for national and international
use.
Organization and financing of the assistance
4.        The assistance should consist of:  (i) consultants should support
MP's expert in conducting and preparing the required studies, review and
improve its content and make a final report on the assignment, results and
propose recommendations so that the studies will be completed by
June 30, 1989 and the plan of action by December 31, 1989 at latest; and
(ii) assist and advise HP in selection and organization of study visits of
MP's experts in order to familiarize them with the subject matters,
experiences and practices in other administrations/POA's in order to enable
them  , execute the studies and make recommendations.  The following
approximate number of manmonths are proposed. Consultants will be free to
propose different divisions not exceeding the total amount of manmonths.
Consultant    MP's Expert's
Subject                   Manmonths    Visit (manmonths)
Telex and switched
data network                  2              6
Interworking of
tex. comm. rnetw.             2              4
Tg. data and
nonvoice service              4              9
Packet network                  2              3
Total                       10             19



- 78 -
ANNEX 17-F
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAGYAR POSTA
5. Terms of Reference for Tariff Study
Preamble
1.        The objectives of the study are to review the existing structure
of telecommunications tariffs and to produce recommendations for changes
with a view to ensuring the coverage of costs for the different services,
the generation of an acceptable level of profitability and the efficient
use of the telecommunications network.
2.        The study is undertaken in conjunction with the proposed World
Bank loan for the first telecommunications project. The World flank would
be given an opportunity to review and comment on the study before the
conclusion of each of its phases outlined below.
Terms of reference
Phase 1 - COST ANALYSIS
3.   (a)  Definition of the costing methodology to be followed and
principles for allocation of fixed and variable recurrent
costs and capital costs between the different services.
(b)  On this basis, derive actual costs at 1986 prices for the
services, and compare and analyze to the existing
tariffs, for the following services, inter alia:
(i) subscriber rental charges for both direct lines and
PBX, with a particular view to coverage of fixed
costs, and the possibility of introducing "blocked
lines" for PBX and introducing differentiated
subscriber charges on the basis of differing regional
network volume;
(ii) installation charges and deposits with particular
regard to the recovery of investment costs and
whether this varies significantly by region and by
type of subscriber;
(iii) call charges through samoling of direct and PBX
traffic of all classes of subscriber; and
(iv) leased lines.



- 79 -                          ANNEX 17-F
Page 2 of 3
(c) Preliminary assessment of the revenue impact of adopting
cost based tariffs for the different services.
(d) Compare the derived cost based tariffs with international
experience of countries which are comparable to Hungary.
(e) Proceed to identify on the above basis whether and where
cost reductions might be obtained through more detailed
investigations.
(f) Make preliminary recommendations for tariff structure
change. Deadline is December 31, 1987.
Phase 2 - DEMAND AND TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
(a) Analyze the impact of tariff changes, including those
proposed under Phase 1, on demand for services and thus
traffic flows and efficient utilization of the network.
Cb) Take into account the expected technical development of
the network and various traffic regulation measures that
could improve network utilization in the absence of any
tariff changes.
(c) Aanalyze impact of specific tariff structure changes on
traffic with a view to reducing congestion and to
ensuring more efficient utilization with particular
regard to:
Ci) varying the peak/non peak period and the pricing of
calls in these two periods;
Cii) investigating the rationality of existing zonal
divisions for long distance traffic;
(iii) making best use of international facilities which
would be particularly scarce until 1988/89;
(iv) increase of STD facilities and the replacement of
leased lines; and
(v) regulation of private telecommunications networks and
their development.
(d) Develop a set of conclusions and recommendations that
should be followed up by Magyar Posta. Interim report to
be prepared. Deadline is December 31, 1987.
Phase 3 - NON TELEPHONE SERVICES, ETC
5.   (a)  Analyze the cost and demand and ways in which tariff
policy could be used for the following services:



-80-                          ANNEX 17-F
Page 3 of 3
(M) telex;
(ii) telegraph;
(iii) data;
(iv) development of new valued added services; and
(v) develop^aent of new data transmission services.
(b)  Analyze the demand for telephones, to determine likely
impact due to future changes in tariff levels for market
clearing.
(c)  Analyze extent to which in future new form of financing,
such as bonds and associations, would be used to finance
network development as opposed to raising revenue through
tariffs. Final report to be prepared. Deadline is
June 30, 1988.
Phase 4 - FOLLOW-UP ANALYSIS
6.   (a)  Prepare a financial model of the telecommunications
system to allow the impact of different tariff changes to
be checked for consistency with Magyar Posta financial
objectives.
(b) On this basis, set out a revised schedule for recommended
tariff structure cnarges for the Seventh Plan period and
recommendations for preliminary inclusion in the Eight
Plan.
(c) On the basis of the study, make recommendations for
implementation of improvements in data collection traffic
measurement and accounting and economic information that
would improve future tariff study and formulation.
(d) Follow up on cost reduction possibilities will be
undertaken. Deadline is December 31, 1988.



- 81 -                        ANNEX 17-G
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
6. Management Information System (MIS)
1. Background
At present MP has a management information system which includes
three subsy;tems for (a) statistics; (b) accounting; and (c) planning. The
system has a comprehensive database; the process is however partly carried
out manually.
As a part of the World Bank project MP intends to modernize and
upgrade its MIS in order to optimize the management decision function, and
improve the information flow between the different levels of management.
Technical assistance is required in order to study and propose an optimal
MIS.
2. ObJectives
a) Study and analyze the existing MIS, its weaknesses leading to an
improved modern MIS for telecommunications;
b) Propose a conceptual framework for MP's MIS, prepare with MP expert
a program of visit and TOR for the Hungarian experts in order to
enable them to prepare a study which will include a proposal for a
MIS;
c) After the preparation of the draft study, the consultant will
review and improve its content and prepare an action plan of
implementation of the recommendations.
3. Terms of Reference
3.1 Study and analyze the existing MIS, its weaknesses and review MP
present concepts of a required MIS for the talecommunications
operation.
3.2 Devise and propose with the assistance of MP experts the conceptual
framework for a modern MIS based on optimal affordable and
available software and hardware configuration taking into account
COCOM limitations. Prepare TOR for MP expert for a feasibility
study of the MIS which will include a proposal for MIS, and assist
HP in organizing study visits abroad in order to familiarize MP
experts with MIS design, planning and operation.



- 82 -                        ANNEX 17-G
Page 2 of 2
3.3 The MIS should have three main subsystems covering
a) telecomnuniications operation;
b) planning and investment; and
c) financing.
The study should relate the decision making process in MP with the
MIS; it should indicate priority areas for computerization of the initial
phase of the introduction.
3.4 After the study visit abroad, when the draft study is prepared by
MP expert, the consultant should review the draft, improve its
content and together with MP expert propose an action plan for the
implementation of the proposed system.
4. Organization of the Assistance
The assistance should consist of two tasks: (i) consultants should
review the existing situation and devise the conceptual framework for MP's
MIS and define TOR for the MP expert for the study and assist in planning
study visits abroad and; (ii) approximately one year later review the draft
study prepared by MP expert, improve its content and prepare with MP expert
an action plan for the implementation of the proposed MIS. The total
assistance should be for approximately 6 manmonths dirided equally between
tasks (i) and (ii).



ANNEX 17-E
- 83 -                         Page I of 1
HUNGARY
MAGYAR POSTA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
7. Telephone Associations (TA)
1. BACKGROUND
MP is experimenting with innovative methods of raising funds for
telephone network development. An alternative way was used recently in
creating a telephone association whereby funds were raised by prospective
subscribers; municipal councils, agricultural entities, enterprises and
residents. The joint investment executed by MP was subsequently taken
over by MP. It is the aim of MP to further develop such forms in promoting
telephone network development in Hungary.
2. OBJECTIVE
I) Study alternative forms of financing telecommunication development in
low density areas by prospective subscriber participation;
ii) Elaborate more advanced forms of telephone associations, meeting
subscribers requirements respecting the development concept of MP;
iii) Propose alternative solutions, utilizing MP facilities, private and
individual resources and joint ventures,
3. TERMS OF REFERENCE
1) The consultants should give an introductory 2-day presentation on
telecommunication associations aid assist MP experts in preparing the
terms of reference for a study to be prepared by MP experts after a
study visit to different TA abroad. The consultants should assist
MP in identifying proper TA in 2-3 countries and organizations to be
visited and prepare a plan of study areas to be covered such as -
legal, organizational, financial, technical, regulatory, etc. (1
manmonth);
ii) Review, disucss and improve the draft study prepared by MP experts in
order to recommend an action plans for the selection of forms and
orderly establishment of TA in Hungary (1 manmonth). In identifying
proper TA in 2-3 countries and organizations to be visited and prepare
a plan of study areas to be covered such as - legal,
organizational, financial, technical, regulatory, etc. (1 manmonth);
ii) Review, disucss and improve the draft study prepared by MP experts in
order to recommiaad an action plans for the selection of forms and
orderly establishment of TA in Hungary (1 manmonth).



NOTES



NOTES
_ _   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I
MAP SECTION



HUNGARY                                                                          20                                                             2  ,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK                                                                                                        C
EXISTING, Villth FIVE YEAR PLAN, AND WORLD BANK PROJECT                                                                                           CZECHOSLOVAKIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK
World Bani Protect.                                                                                en                                  rO U.  S  Cz.oS.ak                                                   R.
Fiber Optic Systems                     o      Cities and Towns with Local and                  Megye Boundaries
Analog Mkrowave                                  Lang Distance Autonic Exchonge        _         Ir      l Boundari -e 
D--  igital Microwave                            4)    Cities and Towns with Local Exchange Only -y
Q     Cities and Towns with Manuol Exchange
0     Exchags (Not World Bank Financed)              Cables                                                                           j                         5                        -
---Microwrwe                                                                  /     Edel~O          OEncs         0s6mp0To U.S.S.R.
:::: :Full Autonation Area                                                         'Kazindxatrciko _ 
>,  } j 3 H S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MSKOLC p)Tk;/ 
48¢                                                                                                                                                           rO    Arxtr ro R To Aeh o fah  sALG6TARJANO  \  *NYfREGYHAZA  I  0
AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                       cM&zbk&iesd    j1a Wd.       /\                     eirb-tor     /
To Austria                                                   0K.4r,|                                                                                                                                    
o           0                    Sz6zdart*Otta   ,Szent,Tato         Cesz.%r
t   e= rl m om~ik   V6rpalotto          A      ;/                                                     OT\  \  C r91*  ave szentmikils ,  /EN
1KA~VOSY6EKZpRM  TA  A                                                                                                       L                                                         ROMANIA
Szentgolt6d b7Zalsieng6                                              ;>                                               *m iaim&ic             I     ,     _     ! ~
\,>2ogykonizsooIdieli /    \(/                                                          rKskw44egh6za   \        ___ j    }.z/rChSl    °-_-____
\\,tX  0fi4__ > > O<~~~Pals|rz *f/  l/t _-s. .j,.
Keszthely  . -.0 _0 S X\ /                                                                                                                    o- 
*_Q_   s,                  'rr       \       s                                                                                                         -
rirpowa,                                                      0                   0T8r6ks*ntikI, j To                                                   5O;
,--N~at6d                                        N                                                  m          / SOLAoR                                          M     N
-                             K               ~aja                                .*~----B-                           -                  -oCZECHSLdVKIA''V~                    U..S.R
S7ertqoAh6d/                                   S&bcg./     __00asl6                                                                                  y%.
Tapo                                                 KEC~~~~T   gSKoRMNl
Keseh                                                                    i6za                           BdK                   Y.,. 4080KIOMTES  UGSLVI
Tamdoi                                             Os .. t-                                -  .                            ULGRI
To YuKoskrris                                            20r                                            -I6 



