                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2330



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-38900, TF53820)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.1 MILLION
                        (US$ 18 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                                  MONGOLIA

                                     FOR A

       SECOND ULAANBAATAR SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                October 30, 2012




China & Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective October 14, 2012)

                      Currency Unit = Tugrik (Tg)
                          1,372.0 Tg = US$ 1
                          US$ 1.541= SDR 1

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
CAP      Country Assistance Strategy
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOM      Government of Mongolia
HDPE     High-density Polyethylene Pipe
HH       Household
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Agency
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (Reconstruction Credit Institute of
         Germany)
Khoroo   Sub-district
KOICA    Korean International Cooperation Agency
lpcd     liters per capita per day
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR      Mid-term Review
MUB      Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
NEMO     Netherlands-Mongolia Trust Fund for Environmental Reform
OSNAAG   Housing and Communal Service Company
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPIAF    Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Fund
QAE      Quality at Entry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group (of the Bank)
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SIA         Social Impact Assessment
SLA         Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TTL         Task Team Leader
UB          Ulaanbaatar
UFW         Unaccounted for Water
USAG/USUG   Water Supply and Sewerage Authority of Ulaanbaatar
USIP        Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project
WHO         World Health Organization


                      Vice President: Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                    Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                   Country Manager: Coralie Gevers, EACMF
                     Sector Director: John Roome, EASSD
                     Sector Manager: Mark R. Lundell, EACSC
                Project Team Leader: Toyoko Kodama, EASIN
                   ICR Team Leader: Toyoko Kodama, EASIN
                                        MONGOLIA
                       Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  Project Background and Overview .................................................................................. i
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36
  Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  Annex 8. USUG Performance Status…………………………………………………. 44
  Annex 9. Studies and Other Projects Implemented .......................................................50
  MAP (MNG32971, MNG32972)
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Second Ulaanbaatar
Country:                Mongolia                Project Name:            Services Improvement
                                                                         Project
Project ID:             P074591                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-38900,TF-53820
ICR Date:               10/30/2012              ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                MONGOLIA
Original Total
                        XDR 12.10M              Disbursed Amount:        XDR 12.09M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 12.09M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Municipality of Ulaanbaatar
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/22/2002     Effectiveness:             04/29/2005       04/29/2005
                                                                                 05/19/2005
                                                                                 06/12/2009
Appraisal:            01/22/2004     Restructuring(s):                           03/24/2010
                                                                                 06/28/2011
                                                                                 12/22/2011
Approval:             04/29/2004     Mid-term Review:           12/15/2007       03/16/2008
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010       02/29/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                        Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower
                                                                                 Satisfactory
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                 Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                  Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water supply                                                            100                     100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Urban services and housing for the poor                                  100                    100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:            Klaus Rohland                        Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:              Mark R. Lundell                      Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:         Toyoko Kodama                        Rajagopal S. Iyer
ICR Team Leader:             Toyoko Kodama
ICR Primary Author:          Toyoko Kodama


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project is
to assist the Borrower and the MUB in improving the quality of life of the urban poor in
the ger areas of Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai
in Ulaanbaatar by (a) providing an accessible urban water supply in selected urban areas
in a sustainable manner; and (b) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Water
Supply and Sewerage Authority of Ulaanbaatar (USAG). Key indicators were: (a)
number of persons served by each kiosk in the project ger areas; (b) percentage of kiosks
in the project areas which are connected to the piped network; and (c) financial status of
USUG.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not changed throughout the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of persons per kiosk
Value
quantitative or   1492                     1124                               940
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004                 06/30/2010                       02/22/2012
Comments          Achieved. The project helped provide improved water supply services to ger area
(incl. %          residents by reducing the number of persons per kiosk, exceeding the target by
achievement)      184 less people per kiosk.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of kiosks on network
Value
quantitative or   0%                       88%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004               06/30/2010                         02/22/2012
Comments
                  Achieved. 100% of the kiosks in the project areas were connected to the main
(incl. %
                  water network, exceeding the original target.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     USUG net profit/loss
Value
                                           Tg 1.1 billion                     Tg -6.9 billion
quantitative or   Tg -4.8 billion (loss)
                                           (profit)                           (loss)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004                06/30/2010                        02/29/2012
Comments          Not achieved. The financial situation of USUG deteriorated during project
(incl. %          implementation. Although USUG generated revenues of Tg 200 million in 2011,
achievement)      net income was negative because of increasing operating costs.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                                Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Construction/repair of kiosks
Value
(quantitative   0                          111                                112
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2004                   06/30/2010                         02/22/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. All kiosks were constructed or repaird under the project.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Replacement of large-diameter pipeline
Value
(quantitative     0                         78.2                               79.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004               06/30/2010                         02/22/2012
Comments          Achieved. Some adjustments were made during detailed design but all works
(incl. %          were completed, and the cumulative length of large-diameter pipeline replaced
achievement)      exceeded the target.
Indicator 3 :     Replacement of obsolete high energy-consumption electrical pumps and motors
Value
(quantitative     0                         90                                 87
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004                06/30/2010                     02/29/2012
Comments          Mostly achieved. As this sub-component was changed from Bank-financed to
(incl. %          non-bank-financed, all replacement works were completed with counterpart
achievement)      funds.
Indicator 4 :     Project management (number of awarded
Value
(quantitative     2                         30                                 42
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004                06/30/2010                         02/22/2012
Comments
                  Achieved. The number of contracts increased due to changes in packaging and
(incl. %
                  new contracts were added to use Credit savings.
achievement)
                  USUG institutional development (Recommendations, approvals, and
Indicator 5 :
                  implementation/ operation)
Value
(quantitative     0                         8 I/O                              8 I/O
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/30/2004                06/30/2010                         02/22/2012
Comments
                  Achieved. Eight measures were adopted and implemented during project
(incl. %
                  implementation.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/18/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     12/22/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  3     06/14/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.17
  4     01/24/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.76
  5     09/22/2006       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   0.95
  6    09/11/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory       6.25
                         Moderately              Moderately
  7    06/03/2008                                                         6.98
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  8    03/26/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory      8.16
  9    06/21/2010   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory            13.64
 10    06/27/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory            16.59
 11    03/13/2012       Satisfactory            Satisfactory            18.61


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/19/2005               S       S           0.00
 06/12/2009               MS      S           8.57
 03/24/2010               MS    MS           12.38
 06/28/2011               S       S          16.59
 12/22/2011               S       S          18.23




I. Disbursement Profile
Project Background and Overview

The Second Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project (USIP2) was prepared in response to
growing urban poverty and deteriorating living conditions in the peri-urban areas of Ulanbaatar,
Mongolia, referred to as “ger areas.? Because of Mongolia’s transition to a market economy, as
well as a series of severe winters that decimated livestock, many herders in rural areas migrated
to Ulaanbaatar. These people, mainly low-income, settled in ger areas where there was no public
infrastructure such as roads, water supply, or sewerage. Although many ger area residents had
land titles, the living condition was similar to that of slums.

The project development objective (PDO) of USIP2 in the Project Credit Agreement was to assist
the Borrower and the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB) in improving the quality of life of the
urban poor in the ger areas of: Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-Ekh, Naran, and
Uliastai in Ulaanbaatar by (a) providing an accessible urban water supply in select areas in a
sustainable manner; and (b) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority of Ulaanbaatar (USUG), the city’s publicly-owned water supply company.
The project achieved its primary objective of supporting the client’s effort to improve the quality
of life of the urban poor in selected ger areas, but it did not improve the financial sustainability of
USUG.

USIP2 is a project with strong underpinnings for social protection. At appraisal, residents in ger
areas did not have access to running water in their houses, and they had to travel as much as 350
meters to reach a public water kiosk where they could purchase water. Average water
consumption for gers was below the World Health Organization (WHO) minimum standard.
Water quality at kiosks was lower than that of piped water in other parts of the city because it was
transferred by trucks and stored in water tanks at the kiosks. The service at water kiosks was not
reliable because they often ran out of water due to limited capacity of the tanks. Waiting in line
and transferring water were not easy either, especially for women and children, and during the
colder months.

The project was to improve the situation by connecting water kiosks with the main distribution
network so that kiosks would not need to be truck-fed. The project also financed a pilot
household connection of water supply and wastewater in the Dambadarjaa area, which was the
first of this kind in ger areas. Moreover, the project replaced old pipes and equipment in the city
center to reduce leakage and improve energy efficiency. It also installed equipment for telemetry
monitoring as well as laboratory equipment for monitoring water quality. The project was found
relevant at the time of appraisal. At the time of project completion, water kiosks are still the main
source of water for the majority of residents in ger areas. Therefore, the PDO is still highly
relevant.

USIP2 has achieved its primary objective to support improving the quality of life of the urban
poor. Works and installation of goods were completed within budget, but with some delays.
Physical implementation favorably exceeded most indicators. MUB and USUG also achieved the
standard of servicing 1000 people per kiosk through support from this project. All the kiosks in
the project areas are now connected to the main network, and residents can enjoy more reliable
water supply service with better quality and availability.

The sub-component to pilot household connections in the Dambadarjaa area, although innovative,
required extensive time and resources, with unresolved issues still pending. The sub-component
has provided lessons-learned in terms of design, operation, and maintenance for future projects of
this kind. The institutional development of USUG was partially achieved; training and study


                                                   i
tours were carried out during implementation to enhance its management and technical capacity.
Furthermore, several trust funds were also mobilized to undertake studies that benefitted USUG
as well as the MUB for the future development of ger areas. Overall, the project contributed to
improve the water supply service to the urban poor and the institutional capacity of USUG to
some extent.

Sustainability of the project outcome was narrowly defined as financial sustainability of USUG,
which was not achieved. At appraisal, it was assumed that the improved water supply would
double the average water consumption in the ger areas. The project aimed to pursue full cost
recovery by USUG by raising water and wastewater tariffs for apartment users, institutions, and
industries (not for water kiosk customers). Although full cost recovery was the main approach in
the water projects that the Bank financed at the time of appraisal, it was an optimistic scenario for
this project because the project financed only a small segment of USUG’s business, and the
project’s leverage over the policy reform of the water sector was limited.

The political economy of Ulaanbaatar’s water sector, Housing and Communal Service Company
(OSNAAG), and USUG should have been considered more carefully at appraisal, as the water
and wastewater tariffs of apartment users were set extremely low for political reasons, and USUG
had little control over them. When the project was appraised, USUG was already operating at a
loss. It also accumulated debt from a previous World Bank-financed project and another donor’s
project. Moreover, USUG was exposed to foreign exchange risks with these loans. Achieving
full cost recovery was therefore not possible.

Providing water service to ger areas has been costly for USUG because of high operating costs.
The average operating cost of a water kiosk is about Tg 5,000/ m3, while it is about Tg 250/m3 for
other customers. Water tariffs at kiosks are set almost 4 times higher than those of apartment
users. Even with higher tariffs, however, USUG is unable to bring expected revenue to cover
higher operating costs. Therefore, expanding water supply service in ger area exerts a financial
burden on USUG. The project design should have taken this into account, so that USUG could
maintain financial stability while providing quality service.

The Bank supervision team should have also taken a more proactive role to help USUG prevent
the accumulation of further debt as a result of the project. The Bank team realized this issue at
the time of supervision, and proposed that MUB and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) reduce
USUG’s debt level by converting the debt into equity, as well as transferring the loan repayment
responsibility to MUB while USUG continued to push tariff increases. The tariffs were increased
three times during project implementation, but debt relief was not realized. The project was
restructured five times, but the Bank supervision team did not seek changes in the project
performance indicators or sub-components that were lagging.

In summary, USIP2 contributed to the Borrower’s and the MUB’s efforts in improving the
quality of life of the urban poor in selected ger areas through providing improved water supply
service, but it did not achieve the financial sustainability of USUG. The PDO remains highly
relevant in the current context. However, the project’s focus on important social outcomes in ger
areas was not designed to contribute to full cost recovery for USUG, as water supply service in
the ger area is a very high cost business for the water utility company and USUG's full cost
recovery was to come from tariff increases for consumers outside of ger areas. The project
design should have evaluated these issues more carefully during the design stage itself, and the
Bank supervision team should have been more proactive to prevent USUG from accumulating
any further losses.



                                                 ii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Over the past two decades, Mongolia has undergone fundamental political, economic, and social
changes in its transition to a market economy. While the transition brought economic growth and
opportunities, it also brought rapid urbanization and increased income inequality, particularly in
Ulaanbaatar (UB), the capital city. Many nomadic families migrated from rural areas to UB and
provincial centers, seeking employment opportunities and better living conditions. As a result,
the population of UB grew by about 50 percent from 1997 to 2002. The estimated population of
the urban part of UB in 2002 was 800,000. About half of the population, mainly low-income
households, lived in peri-urban areas, referred as “ger areas?, named for the traditional felt tents
used by nomads.

Although many ger area residents had land titles, their living conditions were deplorable with
little to no public infrastructure such as roads, heating, water, or sanitation. Nearly 85 percent of
ger residents used wood- or coal-burning stoves for heating in a climate where temperatures dip
to -40 degrees Celsius annually. Most gers did not have running water and residents used simple
pit latrines without any proper sealing or ventilation. Solid waste was collected once a month at
best, and as a result, many nearby areas morphed into illegal dump sites. Poor urban services led
to environmental degradation, including air and soil pollution exposing residents to respiratory
diseases and hepatitis.

Obtaining water for daily use was an arduous task. As there was virtually no municipal water
supply service in ger areas, residents had to purchase water from public water kiosks. Family
members, usually women and children, carried water from kiosks in containers for an average
distance of about 350 meters usually over hilly terrain. Average water consumption was only six
to seven liters per capita per day (lpcd), a level considerably below the minimum water
consumption volume recommended by the WHO. The water quality at the kiosks was often
inferior to that of piped water because it was trucked into ger areas and stored in water tanks at
the kiosks. Due to limited tank capacity, kiosks frequently ran out of water.

A major factor against extending water supply services to ger areas was extreme climate. Due to
the long periods of sub-freezing temperatures pipes must be laid three to four meters below
ground with insulation and heating cables in order to prevent freezing. Water kiosks and
reservoirs need special looping pipes to ensure continuous water circulation. These features are
critical for the functionality of the water system but they increase operating costs. Some kiosks
even closed during the winter when they became inaccessible by truck. For poor ger residents,
waiting in line at water kiosks in extreme temperatures posed considerable health and safety
hazards.

USIP2 was prepared in response to growing urban poverty and deteriorating living conditions in
ger areas. USIP2 is a project with strong underpinnings for social protection; it aimed to support
the client’s efforts to improve the quality of life of the urban poor in selected ger areas through
providing more reliable and accessible water services. It was based on a successful
implementation of the first Ulaanbaatar Services Improvement Project (USIP1, Cr. 2973, closed
in FY03). USIP1 made inroads in addressing the following sectoral issues: (a) reducing water
losses in UB’s network and improving water quality; (b) in the arid climate, promoting
conservation of water resources through tariff reforms; and (c) improving the water utility’s




                                                 1
financial viability by increasing revenues. However, additional needed investment and reforms
remained, which required sustained engagement over the medium-term.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. Recognizing the need to better serve poor households in ger
areas and to continue the process of reforming the sector, the Borrower requested the Bank to
extend its support with USIP2. USIP2 was fully consistent with the Government of Mongolia’s
(GOM) priorities at appraisal. The Economic Growth Support and Poverty Reduction Strategy,
adopted by the GOM in July 2003, emphasized pro-poor growth. In particular, it highlighted the
need to improve the poor living conditions in UB ger areas, which was the primary objective of
USIP2. The project was also directly linked to the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
objectives of “reducing vulnerabilities,? and it was one of the instruments to support the outcome
of “improving municipal service delivery for vulnerable groups in UB peri-urban residents.?

Other donors, such as the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Japan International Cooperation
Agency (JICA), and the Spanish Government were also actively engaged in urban infrastructure
development. The Bank agreed to continue to support the water sector in UB, while ADB
supported urban infrastructure development in secondary towns. JICA was engaged in water
resource management, and the Spanish Government would be involved in the rehabilitation of the
central wastewater treatment plant.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA 1), the PDO of USIP2 was to assist the
Borrower and the MUB in improving the quality of life of the urban poor in the ger areas of
Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai in Ulaanbaatar by (a)
providing an accessible urban water supply in selected urban areas in a sustainable manner; and
(b) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority of
Ulaanbaatar (USAG 2). Key indicators were: (a) number of persons served by each kiosk in the
project ger areas; (b) percentage of kiosks in the project areas which are connected to the piped
network; and (c) financial status of USUG.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification                                                 Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of USIP2 were residents of ger areas, particularly those in the areas of
Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai. The estimated number
of project beneficiaries was 300,000, which was about 70% of ger area residents at appraisal.
Over the course of the project, additional migration took place, and at completion, the estimated
number of beneficiaries is 350,000. The project also benefitted MUB, other USUG customers,
OSNAAG, institutions, and industries, through support in improving the quality of service
provision.




1
 This PDO as stated in the DCA was different than that of the PAD which was stated as to provide
improved water supply to the urban poor in a sustainable manner.

2
    USAG changed its name to USUG during project implementation.


                                                   2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Ger area water supply (US$ 13.8 million, 60% of the total project cost) –
Improve water supply in ger areas through extending the city-piped water system to water kiosks
in the areas of Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Kari-Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai, and
conducting a pilot for piped water distribution in one ger area.

Component 2: City water supply (US$ 3.4 million, 15% of total project cost) – Strengthen the
primary network system in selected areas, support water conservation, expand monitoring of
water flows and quality, and upgrade laboratory analysis capacity.

Component 3: Energy efficiency improvement (US$ 3.3 million, or 14% of total project
cost) – Reduce energy consumption through replacing obsolete high energy consuming electrical
equipment with more energy efficient equipment.

Component 4: Institutional development and project management (US$ 2.5 million, or 11%
of total project cost) – Provide technical advisory assistance to USUG and the MUB to
strengthen their institutional development and overall project management capabilities.

1.6 Revised Components

Detailed designs of the physical investments were completed during project implementation
resulting in various minor changes. Four major changes were the following:

(a) Under Component 1, supply of water tanker spare parts and supply and installation of water
    meters were removed. Supply of water truck parts was removed because USUG decided to
    procure them with their own funds. Water meters were removed at OSNAAG’s request. The
    pilot to supply piped water to 7,500 households and 16 institutions was also replaced with 96
    households and eight institutions in Dambadarjaa area with provision of water supply and
    wastewater services.
(b) Under Component 2, rehabilitation of 12.2 km of ductile iron and steel pipes was cancelled
    when USUG decided to introduce new technology instead of pursuing rehabilitation.
(c) Three activities were added: (i) Khaliaast Pump Station was extended to include
    rehabilitation activities; (ii) a telemetry system in the central source was added to expand the
    overall telemetry system; and (iii) supply and installation of control valves for the UB water
    supply network were added to connect more manholes to the telemetry system.
(d) The project accumulated about US$1 million in credit savings and exchange rate gains, and
    four activities were added: (i) preparation of feasibility studies for the proposed USIP3; (ii)
    procurement of equipment for USUG’s training center such as equipment for maintenance
    workers and tools for a water exhibition room; (iii) preparation of an exhibit on the project’s
    activities and achievements at city hall; and (iv) preparation of the Borrower’s
    Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR).

1.7 Other significant changes

The project was restructured five times. Reasons were (i) to amend the on-lending arrangements
between the MUB and USUG under the Project Agreement to facilitate the financial viability of
USUG (April 2005); (ii) to increase the financing percentage for civil works and consultancies,
and to reallocate funds to alleviate the counterpart funding burden brought on by the 2008
economic crisis (June 2009); and (iii) to extend the closing date for a total of 20 months (June
2010, June 2011, and December 2011).



                                                 3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis. The sustainable development of ger areas was a major
challenge that UB faced. The Borrower and the Bank continued to recognize that serving ger
areas with more reliable and better quality water supply was a high priority for improving living
conditions in the gers, improving their safety, preventing water-borne disease outbreaks, and
curbing environmental degradation. USIP2 was expected to continue efforts started in USIP1 by
improving service delivery and deepening sectoral reforms. Lessons learned and incorporated
into the design of USIP2 included: (a) improved engineering designs, which balanced the need to
protect assets from extreme weather conditions against the additional costs of that protection; (b)
choosing between connecting kiosks to the network or supplying kiosks by truck based on cost
considerations; (c) better packaging of contracts to avoid splitting work into many small
contracts; and (d) more attention to sanitation, albeit through parallel financing with a grant (See
Section 2.2).

Assessment of the Project Design. The PDO, emphasizing quality of life improvement through
water supply seemed correct given the uncontrollable expansion and population growth in ger
areas and the urgent need to provide them with clean water. The four project components were
appropriate to improve service quality and to address the key challenges of the water sector in
Ulaanbaatar. The project focused on one geographical area, one sector, and was implemented
principally by one implementing agency with prior Bank experience, all of which together
reduced project complexity.

The project’s results framework could have had more indicators of a social nature. Other
indicators were simple output indicators which did not adequately inform progress toward the
PDO. Similarly, the financial status of USUG was measured only through net profit, whereas
other indicators could have been more informative (see below).

Moreover, the goal of improving the financial viability of USUG through full cost recovery was
too ambitious on two levels. First, the Bank-financed components focused mostly on water
service to ger areas, whereas the project sought to increase water and wastewater tariffs across the
city except for ger area customers. Water supply volume for the ger areas is only three percent of
USUG’s total water supply volume and around five percent of the company’s total revenue. Yet,
servicing the ger areas consumes more than half of USUG’s employees and comprises more than
90% of USUG’s total costs. Thus, the tariff reform scope was too limited to be able to bring
revenues into line with costs.

Second, and more importantly, the project design did not adequately consider the political
economy of the water sector and its impact on the project, particularly the relationship between
USUG and OSNAAG. USUG was selling bulk water to OSNAAG, who supplied water to
individual customers in apartment buildings. In UB, the water and wastewater tariffs are
proposed by USUG, reviewed and revised by the MUB, and approved by the Parliament. The
water and wastewater tariffs of apartment users have been set extremely low (18 cents per m3 for
water and 9 cents per m3 for wastewater) for political reasons, and USUG had little control over
them. Although OSNAAG had increased the numbers of meters installed in the apartments,
meter tampering by OSNAAG-managed apartments was estimated to account for a significant
portion of USUG’s unaccounted for water (UFW). In addition, 84.5 percent of accounts
receivable were owned by OSNAAG in 2004, and OSNAAG was not adequately collecting from



                                                 4
customers and passing the revenue onto USUG, further stifling USUG’s cash flow and financial
viability situation. It was clear that the relationship between USUG and OSNAAG was not taken
into account in the project’s design to improve USUG’s financial situation.

Adequacy of Government’s Commitment. Based on the successful implementation of USIP1, the
government more actively participated in USIP2’s project preparation. They were also more
familiar with Bank processes and requirements at appraisal, which allowed for a smoother
preparation process. However, policy makers were not fully committed to policy reform or for
increased water and wastewater tariffs. The project assumed an increase of water and wastewater
tariffs would be passed for all levels except for water kiosk customers 3. Strong government
commitment was indispensable for the tariff reforms. The tariffs were revised three during
project implementation, but this was delayed and insufficient. Even though the tariff increases
were approved at the MUB and the Parliament levels, the water and wastewater tariffs of
OSNAAG apartment customers were maintained at lower levels for political reasons. Thus, the
chances of achieving full cost recovery were reduced.

Assessment of Risks. Risk assessment at appraisal was comprehensive, but the assessment could
have been strengthened. Risks incorporated in the project design included a financial viability
assessment of USUG, project level governance issues, implementation of the investment program,
and the institutional development needs of USUG. The Bank team identified the financial
viability risk of USUG as substantial. Mitigation measures included having a tariff increase as a
disbursement condition, incorporating a financial covenant, and including a monitoring indicator.
However, these measures were not effective enough to improve the financial viability risks posed
by USUG or to guide a policy dialogue with the MUB during project implementation.
Furthermore, political risks could have been anticipated, such as the lack of commitment of the
local government to realize the continuous tariff reforms, political instability, and delays in
decision-making during election periods. The project also faced risks of counterpart funding
shortages and limited contractor capacity. All of these factors ultimately contributed to delays in
effectiveness and financial losses of USUG.

Quality at Entry. USIP2 was found to be an important project to overcome some of the
development challenges that UB and the country faced at appraisal, but the project design had
significant shortfalls. It failed to integrate social protection into the design of project monitoring.
The results framework did not have adequate indicators to measure directly the social outcome of
the project. It also tried to pursue full cost recovery through tariff increases, but the project
overestimated the government’s commitment on such reforms. An assessment of the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) at entrance mentioned that the Bank could have tried to influence the
evaluation of the sector, particularly on the tariff reforms and institutional reforms of USUG and
OSNAAG, with which this ICR agrees. Hence, the rating for the Bank’s performance at the
Quality of Entry is rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory? (See Section 3.1 and 5.1 for more details).

2.2 Implementation

Physical Investments. Most of the physical investments were implemented as planned, but with
some delays. The project had a prolonged start-up period, mostly due to (a) the changes resulting
from the June 2004 elections held shortly after Board approval; and (b) the time needed to
develop detailed engineering designs of the water distribution networks for the ger area water


3
  At appraisal it was assumed that the tariffs for institutions, industries and OSNAAG apartments would
increase by 40 to 50 percent in 2004, followed by additional 15 percent increase in 2006 and again in 2008.


                                                     5
supply component. Implementation gained speed after mid-2007, when all the major
procurement packages were awarded. However, the economic crisis in 2008 affected not only the
country at the macro-economic level, but also the contractors’ financial situation as they could
not mobilize the resources stipulated in their contracts. Delays in allocating counterpart funds
from USUG also caused construction delays. As a result of these constraints, the project was
downgraded to “moderately unsatisfactory? in June 2008. Ultimately, the project was
restructured in June 2009 to increase the financing percentage and to reallocate credit funds, after
which project performance improved.

Construction Quality and Supervision. During the mid-term review (MTR), issues of
construction quality arose. These included poor execution of installation and civil works, use of
inadequate construction materials (not meeting standards and technical specifications), lack of
skilled manpower, and poor organizational skills among local contractors. Following these
discoveries at MTR, construction supervision was enhanced, and better contract management was
enforced. Construction supervision was carried out by the Project Management Unit (PMU), the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), formed with USUG’s own staff, and MUB. The PIU was
also involved in discussion of detailed design with project management consultants.

Pilot Private Connection. Among all the sub-projects, the design and implementation of the pilot
private connections to water supply and wastewater systems in Dambadarjaa ger area required
much time and resources from the PMU, the PIU, and project management consultants. Though
the PAD targeted 7500 household connections, the pilot’s focus was adjusted early in project
implementation to installing direct connections from the main water supply system to 16
institutions in ger areas, such as schools and hospitals 4. After the 2004 elections, the Ministry of
Construction and Urban Development requested the Bank team to include private household
connections for both water supply and sewerage. The project management consultant carried out
two feasibility studies for private connections in Naran and Nisekh. The Bank supervision team
raised serious concerns on technical solutions and cost recovery of the proposed system.
Nevertheless, the MUB and USUG showed strong commitment to retain the sub-component in
the project. Later, Dambadarjaa was identified as a pilot location because of geographical, socio-
economic, and housing conditions. The consultant also carried out various surveys on tariff
setting, ownership, operation and maintenance, beside the detailed designs for the water supply
and sewerage network and a mini wastewater treatment plant. The revised scope included 96 HH
and eight institutions. Construction was completed in May 2011, and operations began in
September 2011. The total investment cost for the sub-component was about US$889,000, more
than double the original estimate of $400,000, and the average cost per HH was around
US$10,000, including the costs of taps and flush toilets.

The system exhibits a number of miscalculations, and it is still facing technical difficulties to
operate as planned. Out of 96 HH, only 43 HH are currently connected to the network, and the
rest of the HH either do not live there permanently or cancelled the contracts, which resulted in
significantly lower consumption than originally estimated. The system also faced several
problem during the winter time: (a) breakage or water frosting at several water connections where
they were exposed to outside temperatures; (b) water frosting at the end of secondary water pipe
lines; (c) freezing and clogging of sewerage connections because the outgoing sewage flow was
intermittent and insufficient; (d) an extremely low operation rate of the wastewater treatment
plant due to low water consumption volumes (inflow is 8m3 per day, while the design flow is 90


4
 The PAD and the Project Agreement mention that the project will also cover water supply connections to
7500HH, but there was no feasibility study done prior to appraisal.


                                                   6
m3 per day); and (e) malfunction of an infiltration field installed after treatment, causing
inadequate flow into the ground. Moreover, households do not share a sense of ownership nor
understand their responsibilities of maintenance partly because they did not contribute financially.

Policy Reform of USUG. The policy reform of USUG to implement tariff increase was partially
implemented but did not meet the level to achieve full cost recovery. The tariffs were indeed
increased in 2005, 2008, and 2010, but not to the targeted levels. Because of delayed and
insufficient tariff increases and exchange rate fluctuations, USUG’s financial situation
deteriorated further during implementation (See Section 3.3 and Annex 3). During project
implementation, it became obvious that the financial sustainability of USUG could not be
achieved through tariff increases alone. At the MTR, the economic rates of return were
recalculated and the results were negative, ranging from -15% to -35%. After the MTR, the Bank
repeatedly proposed corrective measures, including conversion of on-lending loans to equity,
eliminating penalty interest, exempting USUG from counterpart funding obligations, and
introducing further tariff increases. The proposal to reduce USUG’s debt burden was discussed
and agreed with MUB together with other public utility companies facing a similar situation.
However, the proposal had not been approved by Parliament at closing. The Bank also proposed
to amend the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) between MUB and USUG to make it more
commercially acceptable, but the suggestion was not acted upon.

Availability of Other Sources of Funding. In addition to the IDA Credit, five grants were
mobilized to carry out activities associated with USIP2. In particular, the Community-led
Infrastructure Development and Sanitation Project (TF53820) was implemented in the ger areas
by the same PMU, and was closely linked with USIP2. It was financed by a grant of US$1.89
million from the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF). The PDO of the grant was to improve
the quality of the life of the urban poor by building local infrastructure, enhancing access to
information, creating and strengthening citizens’ representative institutions, and planning and
executing the community driven development based approach for community participation. The
project also aimed to improve access to a better sanitation system in ger areas by providing
subsidies for installing a ventilated improved pit (VIP), which needs were identified during
project preparation of USIP2. For other grants, objectives and outputs are summarized in Annex
9.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The three key outcome indicators were well defined and aligned to the PDO, but
the design lacked indicators to measure progress directly against the “quality of life improvement?
aspect in the PDO. The five intermediate indicators, such as the number of kiosks and pipes
constructed or replaced, or number of contracts awarded, were easily monitored to track physical
progress, but they were only indirect measures of progress on the PDO. A few other social type
indicators could have been proposed, such as reduction in the average distance to travel to a water
kiosk, or reduction in time spent waiting in line at kiosks. The M&E framework also had no
indicator to measure improved water quality as a result of Component 2 and no indicator
measuring improved energy efficiency as a result of Component 3. Having just the indicator of
USUG’s net profit/loss to measure its sustainability was not informative to understand the
problems USUG was facing. The intermediate outcome indicators could have included other
water utility performance indicators such as: decreased unit consumption of electricity per m3,
unaccounted for water (UFW) losses reduced, unit operating cost per m3 reduced, and water
quality improvement at constructed or rehabilitated kiosks, to measure the improved quality of
service provision.



                                                 7
M&E Implementation and Utilization. M&E was carried out primarily through monitoring the
PDO and intermediate outcome indicators listed in the PAD and semi-annual progress reports
prepared by the PMU. The prime source for M&E information was the data submitted by USUG
or collected by the project management consultant. However, because of the design issues
mentioned above, intermediate outcome indicators were not sufficient to inform decision-making.
Unfortunately the Bank did not take advantage of the restructurings to strengthen the results
framework.

In addition to data on the project’s results indicators, USUG’s performance data were collected
during preparation of the ICR (See Annex 8). Although it was difficult to attribute the impacts
from the investments made through this project, additional information shows the strengths and
weaknesses of USUG’s business model, which helped to understand the risks to project
sustainability.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards. The project was assigned Category B, with two safeguards policies
triggered: Environment Assessment and Involuntary Resettlement. This rating was sound as most
of the environmental impacts identified were minor and temporary, and there were no major
issues. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) were prepared and disclosed to the public on February 12, 2004. Monitoring was carried
out by an engineer and community coordinators of the PMU instead of by an environmental
specialist. Although there were no complaints reported during project implementation or during a
series of public consultative meetings held in 2010, the extent of EMP compliance is difficult to
ascertain.

Social Safeguards. During preparation, a Social Impact Analysis (SIA) was conducted involving
a socio-economic survey of about 2,000 HH as well as consultations with project communities
and community-based organizations and NGOs. The SIA indicated there were no significant
adverse social issues in the project. A Resettlement Policy Framework and a Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) were prepared to minimize negative social impacts on project affected persons
(PAPs). The RAP and SIA were prepared at the same time as the EIA, and the RAP was
disclosed on February 1, 2004. According to the RAP, the project was to affect 47 households
(HH) and one kindergarten. During project implementation, no major complaints were received
and no official resettlement claims were addressed, but the number of PAPs increased
significantly to about 200 HH. The reasons for the change in the numbers of PAPs are not
documented, nor are any additional costs known. The change could be due to new settlements in
the project areas and/or reassessment after detailed design. The implementation and monitoring
of the RAP was carried out by the PMU engineer and community coordinators.

Procurement. Procurement of works and goods as well as selection of consultants was conducted
in accordance with the Bank’s guidelines. The PMU procurement specialist was fully conversant
with Bank guidelines and standard formats, which facilitated smooth procurement processing,
except one exceptional case in which a contract for preparation of a feasibility study took several
months from the announcement of expression of interest until contract signing because the PMU
failed to invite a representative from each bidder at the bid opening ceremony. During
implementation, two contracts (i.e., laboratory equipment and control and mechanical valves)
were rebid due to a lack of satisfactorily responsive bids.

Financial Management. Accounting and financial reporting was aligned with regulations issued
by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the requirements specified in the Development Credit


                                                8
Agreement (DCA). Annual audits were conducted and the reports were unqualified and
submitted on time for Bank review. In addition, the withdrawal procedures and flow of funds
arrangements were appropriate throughout project implementation, and Credit proceeds were
disbursed in a relatively timely manner.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The pilot private connections in Dambadarjaa require further modifications to address the
problems mentioned in Section 2.2. In June 2012, MUB received a letter from the State
Inspection Department as a result of residents’ complaints on poor water supply and sewerage
services. The MUB, USUG, PMU, design consultants and contractors took the following remedy
actions: (i) opened the frozen secondary water supply pipes and installed valves and fittings in
some places; (ii) drafted a design for a bio pond with a capacity of 273 m3 to be constructed after
the infiltration field; and (iii) conducted a social survey among the connected households to
quickly assess their understanding of maintenance. The MUB has allocated funding to construct
a bio pond and associated facilities, to add heating cables for the secondary sewer, and to install
instant water boilers in individual houses. However, further additional remedies, such as
improving the water supply system to ensure constant flow of water and improving insulation for
the water supply pipes and sewer, might be needed to make the system fully functional.

Except for the pilot household connection system for water supply and wastewater, all the
facilities constructed or installed were transferred to USUG which is in charge of operation and
maintenance. At the time of ICR preparation, most of the facilities were operating and being
well-maintained.

The MOF and MUB requested that the Bank continue its support to further develop ger areas.
The proposed USIP3 is under preparation, and it will be comprised of four components: (i)
formulation of district development and infrastructure plans; (ii) priority infrastructure
investments, mainly secondary roads and drainage; (iii) solid waste collection improvement; and
(iv) project management. Inclusion of the water and wastewater component was discussed
extensively but was finally dropped because of USUG’s financial viability and other donors’
plans to implement major projects in the sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation            Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Relevance of objectives, design, and implementation is deemed Moderately Satisfactory for the
reasons noted below. The PDO remained highly relevant throughout project implementation to
completion. Ger areas have been expanding with the rapid urbanization and the influx of people
to the city from rural areas. The traditional built-up areas of UB comprise some 130 km2, while
the total administrative area of the capital city, including the ger areas, is now estimated at about
4,700 km2. The population of the ger areas is now estimated at about 60 percent of the total
population of UB. Nevertheless, living conditions of poor households in ger areas are still
difficult, and water kiosks are the main source of water supply for most residents. Only a limited
number of households are connected to the central water supply and sewerage network 5 .



5
 According to USUG, there are 112 households connected to the central water supply and sewerage system
excluding the Dambadarjaa area, as of May 2012.


                                                  9
According to Managing Urban Expansion in Mongolia: Best Practices in Scenario-Based Urban
Planning (2010), a study done by the Bank, retrofitting urban services in ger areas would be very
expensive due to low population density and the severe winters. Therefore, it is not realistic to
assume that each ger area household will be connected to the central water supply and sewerage
system in the near future unless the government is ready to spend significantly more money for
infrastructure development in the ger areas. Therefore, operating water kiosks will remain vital to
the lives of people in those areas. This confirms that the project scope, particularly the ger area
water supply component, is still relevant in the current context.

USIP2 was designed to be consistent with the Bank’s country assistance strategy. The project
was an important instrument under the Interim Strategy Note (CY2009-10). It supported the
outcome of “enhancing municipal planning capacity and urban services with focus on ger areas,?
under Pillar 2 (Protect Poor and Vulnerable Groups). The project is also consistent with one of
the pillars of the new Country Partnership Strategy (FY2013-2017), which is to address
vulnerabilities and growing inequality through improved access to services and better service
delivery, safety net provision, and improved disaster risk management through improving quality
of life and opportunities for people living in poor areas.

Although it was common among Bank-financed water projects prepared in the early 2000’s to
pursue full cost recovery by increasing water and wastewater tariffs, it is questionable whether it
was realistic for this project to pursue full cost recovery given its social protection nature. The
PAD mentions that the ger area water supply component is not financially justifiable; it is
justifiable only on social grounds. The project assumed that water consumption of kiosk
customers would go up substantially if the water service at kiosks were to become more reliable
and accessible. USUG performance analysis confirmed that water consumption among kiosk
customers did not increase substantially as a result of kiosks being connected to the network. It
also confirmed that high tariffs for water kiosk users (Tg 909 per m3) cannot cover the operational
costs of piped kiosks (Tg 4,800 per m3) (See Annex 8). Therefore, the project should have sought
subsidies from MUB, rather than placing such a high financial burden on USUG, and adjusted the
financial plan accordingly.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives                Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Provision of Accessible Urban Water Supply. The project’s performance in improving the quality
of life of poor people in the project ger areas through provision of accessible water supply is fully
satisfactory. Average water consumption for kiosk customers did not increase substantially, but
interviews with ger area residents in public consultation meetings held in 2010 confirmed that
people were experiencing more reliable water supply, traveling shorter distances to kiosks, and
spending less time waiting in lines. People in the project areas, namely Bayankhoshuu,
Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai are receiving a continuous supply of
potable water closer to home. Today, kiosks service 940 people per kiosk, which is better than the
project target of 1,124 persons per kiosk, and represents a 37 percent decline from the baseline of
1,492 people per kiosk. Following completion of USIP1 and USIP2, the water supply standard
set by the MUB – one water kiosk per 1,000 residents – has been met or exceeded, except in the
most remote areas.

Through the project’s physical works, the percentage of kiosks on the network in the project areas
has grown from zero percent in 2004 to 100 percent as of June 2011, surpassing the target of 88
percent. Out of some 550 existing kiosks in ger areas, about 20 percent have been newly
constructed or rehabilitated under USIP2, and about 60 percent were improved through USIP1
and 2 together. Moreover, 22 schools, 27 kindergartens, 161 public institutions, 12 khoroo


                                                 10
buildings, and 10 family hospitals have been connected to the central water supply system
extended under USIP1 and USIP2. Water quality was measured by USUG regularly, and it has
met the standards set by the Government. More than 500 pieces of equipment for measuring and
sampling were supplied to USUG’s new laboratory through the project. USUG is now able to
measure the quality of clean water and also that of wastewater, and the newly upgraded
laboratory has been used to measure effluent quality of the central wastewater treatment plant as
well as decentralized wastewater treatment plants. Although the pilot private connection in
Dambadarjaa is still facing issues, the project contributed to USUG’s efforts to provide reliable
water supply service to ger area residents. Thus, the project improved reliability, accessibility,
quality, and quantity of water services to these people.

Sustainable Water Supply Service. Despite its financial constraints, USUG improved its
operational performance by reducing UFW. Through investments made in the water supply
system, such as installing more water meters for customers and replacing old pipes, water losses
declined from 35.5% in 2005 to 19.6% in 2010. The reduction of UFW contributed to lower
electricity consumption in water production operations as well. Under Component 3, much
equipment in pumping stations installed in the 1960s was replaced with more energy efficient
equipment. As a result, annual electricity consumption of the water supply system reduced.
According to the Bank’s calculations, unit consumption of electricity was halved from 0.32
kwh/m3 in 2007 to 0.16 kwh/m3 in 2009 through replacement of equipment (i.e. pumps and
motors). Although there are some uncertainties in the unit energy consumption calculation,
USUG took steps to reduce energy consumption while not deteriorating service quality.

Strengthening Institutional Capacity of USUG. Achievement of the institutional capacity
building objective is considered satisfactory. Staff at USUG have developed professional and
technical competency for implementation of infrastructure projects under international funding
through training and exposure to the international project management environment. The training
and seminars focused on project and financial management, assessment of fixed assets, technical
training on welding of polyethylene pipes, telemetry systems, operation of new technology pumps,
valves and other equipment procured under the project, construction supervision, public-private
partnership, and English courses. A public campaign for water conservation was also carried out.
Following the implementation of USIP1 and 2, USUG has worked with JICA, KOICA, KfW, the
Netherlands, Spain, and ADB. The fact that USUG attracts investment from these donors proves
the company has some technical and managerial capacities to implement projects.

In sum, given the exceeding of two out of the three PDO indicators as noted in the Results
Framework Analysis and text above, the achievement of the PDO is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. This recognizes the lack of attainment of the financial PDO indicator, despite its
inadequacy as noted above.

3.3 Efficiency                                           Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The economic rate of return (EIRR) for the ger area water supply component is now estimated to
be negative, while the EIRR was evaluated at 14.1% at appraisal. This is because the benefits in
the project such as more reliable service delivery and better access to water kiosks have not been
accompanied by the expected increase in water consumption. The economic viability of this
component was conditional on substantially increased water consumption in the target areas of
ger area households. To achieve this increase in water consumption and in the EIRR, project
experience indicates that these areas need further investment not only in the water supply network
but also in sewer systems.



                                               11
The financial rate of return for the energy efficiency improvement component is reevaluated at 12
percent, which is financially justified. This was achieved by replacing obsolete high energy
consuming electrical equipment (pumps, motors, etc.) with energy efficient equipment.

USUG was envisaged at appraisal to make a net income in 2008 and onwards. However, due to
the lower tariffs realized and the burden of foreign currency borrowings, it was forced to stop
debt service payments in 2006 to maintain its day-to-day operations. The long-term debt
increased by Tg 24 billion to Tg 62 billion for 2011 as a substantial portion of assets under USIP2
were transferred to USUG in December 2011. The debt to equity ratio deteriorated to 90:10.
USUG has reached a stage where tariff increases alone will not improve financial viability. As the
Bank has recommended since the MTR, USUG’s long-term debt has to be substantially reduced,
possibly by way of a debt-to-equity conversion to make USUG financially viable (See Annex 3).

Still, most large investments were completed within the original time frame, including connection
of water supply distribution systems and water kiosks in Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, dari-Ekh and
Dambadarjaa ger areas. All the components, including the additional components, were also
implemented within budget; the total project cost was US$22.6 million, whereas the estimated
cost at appraisal was US$22.98 million (See Annex 1). However, as a result of the negative EIRR,
the overall rating of project efficiency is moderately unsatisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Overall Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project objective remained highly relevant
from start to finish even with some design issues. The project achieved its primary objective of
supporting the Borrower and the MUB in improving the quality of life of the urban poor in select
ger areas through provision of more accessible water supply as demonstrated by surpassing the
indicator on the number of people served per kiosk (which decreased over the life of the project).
Capacity building of USUG was satisfactory through provision of technical and managerial
training. Nevertheless, the partial improvements of sustainability of the service through a
reduction in UFW and electricity costs has not substantially improved USUG’s poor financial
situation. Thus, given the negative EIRR and resulting moderately unsatisfactory level of
efficiency, the overall outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had a significant impact on improving the quality of life of poor people in ger areas.
Although a beneficiary survey was not conducted for the ICR, interviews with ger area residents
in public consultation meetings confirmed that people are experiencing continuous water supply
and are waiting less at water kiosks. Since it is usually women and children who fetch water, the
project had positive impacts on them and likely on other vulnerable groups. At elementary
schools and kindergartens that were connected to the water supply system through USIP2,
students and staff use flush toilets, and confirmed that their sanitation conditions have improved
with the project. However, most of these institutions restrict water consumption to a fixed
timetable, so that sewage holding tanks do not fill too quickly. There is a plan to connect these
public institutions to the central sewerage network in a future project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The PMU and PIU also benefited from strengthened capacity under the project. Training offered
included Bank’s procurement guidelines and safeguards policies, training on public investment


                                                12
and management and sustainable urban development, and English language training. The PMU
has also accumulated experience in community-driven development and mobilizing community
participation through the JSDF-funded project. The JSDF-funded project was awarded as the best
community project in UB by the MUB in 2011. As a result of skills developed under USIP2 and
the JSDF-funded project, MUB nominated the PMU as a “super PMU? to implement externally
funded projects on its behalf.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
With additional funds mobilized during project implementation as described in Section 2.2 and
Annex 9, several important studies were conducted and a community-driven development project
was implemented. The outputs and outcome of these works are summarized below:

(i)     Community-led Infrastructure Development and Sanitation Project was implemented by
        the USIP PMU from 2005 to 2011. In total, 27 khoroos of seven districts were included
        by establishing 40 citizens’ groups, out of which 278 persons participated in construction
        subprojects thus increasing their income. Although the sanitation component was
        dropped due to low up-take by ger area residents, the project financed 113 sub-projects in
        the city. Details of the project’s outputs and outcomes are available in the project file.

(ii)    A report on Strengthening Public Expenditure Capacity and Human Resource
        Management in MUB was produced in January 2008. It focused on policy frameworks
        for public expenditure management, human resource management and a Unified
        Performance Monitoring Framework. It argued that there is a need to strengthen a
        revenue-sharing mechanism between the State and the MUB through further
        decentralization and fiscal autonomy.

(iii)   Ulaanbaatar Water and Wastewater Master Plan, produced in April 2006, proposed
        actions that need to be taken by 2020 considering the current economic, social,
        environmental, political, and institutional situations that the city and USUG were facing.

(iv)    Environmental Reforms in Mongolia carried out several environmental improvement
        activities in UB city. One of the components was construction of flood protection
        facilities in Tolgoit and Selbe Rivers in Songinokhairkan and Sukhbaatar Districts. In the
        flash flood of 2009, the constructed channel saved many lives in ger areas.

(v)     A report on “Exploring Options for Management Contracting-out in Water Supply and
        Sanitation Services for Ger Areas in Ulaanbaatar? was published and disseminated in
        March 2009. It examined the possibilities of having public-private partnerships in the
        water supply and wastewater management business in Ulaanbaatar focusing on an output-
        based aide approach. No concrete actions came out from the report.

(vi)    A report on “Managing Urban Expansion in Mongolia: Best Practices in Scenario-Based
        Urban Planning? was published in May 2010. With financial support from Cities
        Alliance, public consultation and dissemination meetings were held in Ulaanbaatar with
        government officials, implementing agencies, donors, and residents of ger areas, with
        more than 1,000 participants, of which 94 percent rated the meeting “useful? or “very
        useful.?




                                               13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                Rating: Significant

USUG is a professional company with experienced technical staff who have received training in
utility management and operation. Most of the facilities constructed under USIP1 and 2 are
properly operated and maintained. USUG has been doing its best to improve operations in spite
of its financial difficulties. It is currently implementing multiple projects with several
international financial institutions, which is a good indicator of its sound operations and
management capacity. USUG’s management is aware of the social protection angle of its
services to ger areas, and is committed to maintaining operations there.

USUG is fully aware of its challenges to provide sustainable water and sanitation services to
UB’s increasing population, and it is working with several donors on water resource management
and water conservation. JICA consultants have been conducting a study on water resource
management in Gachuurt, which is the main source of raw water for UB located 40 km away
from the city center. ADB is also working on institutional capacity building with a particular
focus on water conservation and UFW. The Korean Government is supporting USUG on the
rehabilitation of the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. These measures are critical for the
utility company as well as for the city to accommodate increasing water demand as a result of
recent urbanization. Although the MUB agreed to convert USUG’s debt to equity, it has not
approved by the Parliament. The risk of development outcome is rated significant because of the
weak financial stability of the water utility company.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry            Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank designed a project that supported the sustainable development of ger areas and the
development plan of UB. The Bank ensured adequate fiduciary arrangements and made sure that
provisions for safeguards were put in place. The project had strategic relevance and was
responsive to requests from policy-makers at the central and local governments. Extra attention
was paid to social development aspects of the project, and a thorough SIA was conducted.

Nevertheless, project preparation had shortcomings, particularly on the financial analysis. The
project was not justified on financial grounds since the financial rate of return (FIRR) was lower
than the discount rate. Although the PAD indicated that the project was expected to generate a
positive return, it was hard to justify, particularly for the ger area water supply component, which
comprised 60 percent of the total investment yet does not generate any net income to USUG due
to high operating costs. It was therefore unrealistic to pursue a full cost recovery through the
project just by increasing water and wastewater tariffs of the apartment dwellers' water
consumption. The unfavorable conditions set forth in the SLA between the MUB and USUG
overburdened USUG’s financial situation. The Bank should have considered a way to reduce the
financial burden caused by the project, possibility through subsidies from MUB.

The project design could have paid more attention to how the project should be monitored and
implemented. Firstly, the results framework could have been improved by including (a) more
social protection type indicators; (b) more performance indicators instead of simple output
indicators; and (c) better indicators of USUG’s utility and financial performance. Secondly, he
Bank team took a softer approach to monitor the policy reform of USUG through a disbursement




                                                14
condition, financial covenant, and a monitoring indicator. Consequently, the policy reform was
not fully implemented, and USUG’s financial sustainability was not achieved.

The Bank’s QAG conducted a Quality at Entry assessment (QAE) and found the project
“satisfactory?. Strong points included: alignment with the poverty alleviation focus of the CAS;
clear and correctly prioritized project definition; strong cohesive team, good donor coordination;
satisfactory attention to gender issues; and consultations with a broad range of stakeholders.
However, QAG thought the Bank could have tried to influence the evolution of the sector
especially with regard to building a solid financial base with a tariff policy responding to sector
investment and maintenance needs. QAG also thought the project could be used to start a
dialogue about the division of responsibilities between various sectoral agencies. This ICR
agrees with QAG’s remarks, but found their overall assessment too soft. QAG’s critique did not
adequately emphasize the risk of government commitment on the policy reform and achieving
financial sustainability of USUG.

(b) Quality of Supervision                                    Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank performance in supervision was moderately unsatisfactory. Bank supervision missions
were conducted twice a year, and there were smaller follow-up missions carried out to follow-up
on emerging procurement and construction works issues and to provide inputs and advice to the
PMU, the PIU, and USUG. Nevertheless, in the last few years, not all the supervision missions
had a team engineer due to budget constraints. The Bank team extended the closing date three
times to allow the completion of all activities including the preparation of the feasibility study of
the follow-on project. The Bank team successfully mobilized additional financing through IDA
and other trust funds, and implemented projects and conducted studies to benefit ger areas further
and set a stage for continuous reform of the water sector in UB.

The Bank team spent considerable time and resources pursuing the water and wastewater tariff
reforms agreed at appraisal and elevated the matter to the municipal and the central government
levels. At the MTR, the Bank team reevaluated the economic and financial rates of return and
analyzed the financial status of USUG, and proposed to reduce the debt level of USUG by
converting some debt into equity. The Bank team can be credited with elevating the issue of
sound public utility services and management to higher levels of government. Nevertheless, the
Bank team should have used the opportunity of the various restructurings to include more social
and results-oriented indicators, rather than output-oriented indicators, to measure the outcome of
the project. The Bank team should also have considered dropping the pilot household connection
sub-component that was stagnant.

For the pilot private connection system, the team reviewed the two feasibility studies conducted
for different sites and provided technical comments prior to the bid document being prepared, and
many of the problems that Dambadarjaa system faced during the winter were raised. The
supervision team provided extensive comments and questions for a draft bid document of the
pilot private connection system, but the team engineer did not have a chance to visit the project
site prior to bid preparation. Safeguards supervision missions were conducted separately from
other missions, but the findings were not recorded in the aide-memoires submitted to the client.
Furthermore, the Bank did not enforce safeguards reporting, resulting in a lack of information on
safeguards implementation.




                                                 15
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall Bank performance was rated moderately unsatisfactory. The primary PDO and
project design were fully relevant, but the project did not benefit from sufficiently sound project
preparation; the project had weak financial analysis, and it also did not have adequate results
monitoring indicators to measure project intermediate outcomes and the PDO. The supervision
team focused on implementation of physical investments as well as policy reform, and all the
activities were completed with some delays. The Bank team could be credited for escalating the
financial issue of USUG to the central government, but the team should have restructured the
project to revise the results monitoring indicators, or revised the sub-components.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance                                       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The MUB demonstrated commitment to the project objectives and supported the project
throughout implementation. Most major construction works and installation were completed on
time and within budget. All the covenants were complied with, except for the financial covenant
for USUG’s cost recovery. The Project Steering Committee, headed by the General Manager of
the Governor’s Office of MUB, comprised representatives from the MOF, line ministries, district
governors of the project sites, and relevant departments of the MUB and non-government
organizations. Committee meetings were held quarterly for briefings on project progress and for
discussions on issues that the project faced with higher officials of the MUB. All the decisions
were made in a transparent manner, and results were recorded in meeting minutes. During
implementation, the MUB paid attention to project implementation and progress monitoring. The
project also attracted some high level official visits, including the President, Parliament members,
and the Prime Minister of Mongolia.

The MUB had difficulties fulfilling its commitments on counterpart funding and implementing
tariff reforms in a timely manner. The project faced delays in 2007 and 2008 due to counterpart
funds shortages for works and consultant services. These constraints were resolved when the
financing percentage was increased from 33% to 100% in 2009, as a response to the financial
crisis that happened in 2008. The water and wastewater tariffs were revised three times during
implementation, but the revisions were delayed and did not meet the levels agreed at appraisal.
The MUB also did not amend its SLA with USUG, although the Bank recommended doing so in
order to reduce the utility’s financial burden.

The Government paid high attention to the pilot private connection system in the Dambadarjaa
area. During project implementation, the Government requested the Bank to revise the project
scope to include the private connections. Although the Bank and USUG agreed to the changes,
the pilot system turned out to be expensive, and provided lessons that suggest it is not suitable for
further replication under the current design.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance                             Rating: Satisfactory
The PMU demonstrated commitment and dedication to implementing the project successfully
throughout the project’s life. It was responsible for procuring consultants and contractors, and
managed day-to-day operations for the project on behalf of the MUB. It coordinated closely with
the project management consultants and the PIU, and was staffed with USUG representatives.
The PMU was engaged in carrying out resettlement issues and held discussions with PAPs and
the government officials to resolve compensation issues. Most of the staff had worked on USIP1,
and have accumulated experience and knowledge on Bank-financed projects. There were no
major issues in procurement, financial management, or safeguards monitoring during project


                                                 16
implementation. However, the institutional arrangements for fiduciary and safeguards monitoring
were weak, as there was only one procurement specialist, one accountant, and no dedicated
specialists in charge of environment or resettlement issues.

USUG also showed strong commitment to implementing the project satisfactorily. USUG was
involved right from the start of project preparation where they participated in discussions on
project scoping and technology to be applied for the proposed components. During
implementation, USUG established a PIU to handle day-to-day construction supervision. Despite
its severe financial situation, USUG managed to operate and maintain the kiosks. USUG has
been going through an institutional reform to further strengthen its institutional capacity and to
better prepare for any challenges ahead.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance              Rating: Satisfactory

The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory because there was commitment from all
levels, the municipal government, the implementing agency, and the PMU, to improve the water
supply service for the urban poor. The MUB, PMU, PIU and USUG were working closely to
discuss daily implementation and operation issues. Although the project has not achieved the
policy reforms it had set out to (the final round of which is still pending Parliamentary approval),
almost all the sub-projects were implemented successfully within budget and on time. Safeguards
monitoring was a shortcoming, but the PMU managed to resolve resettlement issues amicably
though discussions and negotiations.

6. Lessons Learned

Analysis of the nature of the project. The project was intended to provide improved water
supply service to the urban poor. It is now clear that the government should have provided
subsidies for this kind of project. However, the true nature of the project was not fully
documented in the PAD, and hence the municipal government did not take any action to provide
such operational subsidies. This issue should have been dealt with at appraisal, and the role of the
government should have been more clearly defined upfront.

Setting an appropriate financing plan. The Bank team identified at appraisal that the ger area
water supply component would not be commercially viable. Yet, the financing plan ignored this
analysis. The financing plan was based on 78% of the total cost being provided by the Bank debt
and 19% being financed from USUG’s internal sources. The 78% debt financing is harsh even for
a commercially viable water project. In addition, an interest rate of 5% is charged on Bank loans
which cost the government only 1%. The Bank team rightly analyzed that existing tariffs would
not be able to generate adequate revenues to fully cover operating expenses and debt services. Yet,
the financing plan was made to source US$4.41 million from USUG – around half of its 2004
operating revenue. Given the nature of the project, it could have been 100% equity financed.

Minimizing foreign exchange fluctuation risk exposure. USUG utilized the Bank’s loans for
construction of the city water supply system under USIP1 and loans from the Spanish government
to construct a wastewater treatment plant. All loans were borrowed in foreign currencies: US$ for
USIP1 and euro for the Spanish government loans. As the Tugrik had been depreciating against
those currencies, the debt service obligations increased accordingly. Water utility companies like
USUG generate revenue in local currency and revenue generally does not increase to match
currency depreciation. It is important to minimize foreign currency exposure by restricting
foreign currency borrowings to an affordable level.



                                                17
Future Expansion of Private Connections in Ger Areas.
 (i) Conduct a social and economic survey of an area prior to site selection. Select a site
       that has potential economic and population growth. The site should also have existing
       commercial activities or existing public institutions that consume bulk water. A social
       survey among households is also important in order to understand their consumption
       patterns, willingness to pay, and affordability of initial investments in household, such as
       sinks and instant water boilers, and connection fees.
 (ii) Establish clear guidance on cost-sharing. Prior to project implementation, it is important
       to have clear guidelines on cost sharing and responsibilities of households. Where feasible,
       customers should contribute financially to investments to foster their ownership.
 (iii) Educate users more proactively. It is important that the project owner educate users more
       proactively to inform them of their responsibilities to maintaining the system.
 (iv) Establish standards for wastewater facilities for ger areas. One of the major design
       flaws of the pilot private connections in Dambadarjaa was the estimation of water
       consumption. The standards in the urban area are not applicable for the current situation of
       ger areas. It is important to establish and apply standards that are suitable for ger areas.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The MUB emphasizes that the USIP2 project was one of the best implemented projects in
Ulaanbaatar. Investments done under this project were very important for Ger area residents, as it
improved their living condition. Water networks built in Ger areas were the fundament for future
ger area development.

Project Steering Committee (SC) headed by General Manager was established in 2002 and
provided overall management of the Project. Yearly procurement plans, a financial plan against
disbursement, major issues faced by the PMU were always discussed at the SC. Performance of
the PMU was also assessed and evaluated by the SC in yearly manner. After completion of
USIP2, based on the results achieved and positive impacts to the ger area of USIP2, the SC rated
PMU’s activity as “satisfactory?.

During implementation, the PMU gained a lot of experience and the PMU and PIU (under
USUG) staff’s skill and capacity were significantly improved. However, there are some issues
that needed to be improved. These are:

    •   Improvement of USUG’s financial capacity.                 The way to improve financial
        performance of USUG was to increase water tariff systematically. During the project
        implementation tariff was increased three times, however this was not systematic and did
        not reach the percentages proposed. The tariff increase issue was always discussed but
        not fully resolved, overly dependent on the Parliament. The amended law of water and
        sewerage in cities and provincial towns, which has been submitted to the Parliament for
        approval, includes ideas for establishing an independent regulatory agency for water and
        sewerage, and the tariff setting issue is under its responsibility.
    •   Postponement of implementation. The national election process every 4 years results
        in some delays of project implementation. After every election, structural reforms,
        ministries, agencies, departments of MUB were changed, and officials who were familiar
        with the project objectives were replaced. The Borrower and the Implementing Agency
        need to consider the timing of project approval and ratification.


                                                18
   •   Changes in project components. There were no big changes in project components;
       however elimination and changes of contracts within the components happened. For
       example, the package for water meter supply, supply of spare parts, and replacement of
       12 km of city network were removed at the request of the beneficiary (USUG).
       Establishment of sewerage system in ger area was raised during the project
       implementation period by the Ministry of Construction and Urban development, and it
       was discussed with the Bank during the MTR and agreed to focus on pilot project for
       house connection in Ger area. Every change in the components or contracts needs to be
       well documented and updated in project documents. Especially, the performance
       indicators in PAD need to be revised during the Bank mission.
   •   Price increase deeply connected with the construction cost. During project
       implementation, salaries of construction workers, costs of construction materials and
       heavy machinery, and their transportation increased several times. These increases
       negatively influenced on the financial capacity of contractors. Mongolia was affected by
       the global economic crises in 2008, and so were the project contractors. In the above
       mentioned cases, some compensation had been done by PMU by amending of contracts
       with Bank approval. However, clear guidance or calculation method is still required on
       the procurement and financial documents.
   •   Rapid changes due to economic growth and policy. Any project starts after
       completion of engineering survey and detailed designs. But due to the current rapid
       economic development and poor land management, the conditions of targeted areas have
       changed dramatically, and it led to increase in costs, manpower and time. In particular, it
       can have a significant impact on resettlement. These types of changes including sudden
       decisions of authorities need to be considered for future projects.
   •   House connection in ger area. The pilot project on house connection in Dambadarjaa
       ger area gives big lessons to the PMU as well as to all stakeholders of Municipality. Even
       though lessons learned from similar house connection projects implemented before were
       considered during the design and preparation of the pilot project, there are still things
       need to improve. Revision of existing standards for water and sewerage consumption; ger
       area customers' culture, habits and education; social and economic conditions;
       improvement of mutual responsibility need to be carefully considered. Before provision
       of house connections in the ger areas, detailed urban planning must be done through
       smart land use arrangements. It should be one of the basic conditions for ger area
       connections. Among the above mentioned lessens, the most important one is selection of
       the low cost mini treatment plant option, suitable for the unique Mongolian climate and
       ger area conditions.

(b) Cofinanciers                                                                 Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders                                              Not applicable.




                                              19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                                    Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                        Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Ger Area Water Supply                     12.43             12.47                            100
City Water Supply Network                  3.05              4.21                           138.0
Energy Efficiency Improvement              2.91              1.86                            63.9
Institutional Development &
                                           2.57              4.04                           157.1
Project Management
              Total Baseline Cost         20.96             22.60                           107.8
Physical Contingencies                     0.88              0.00                             --
Price Contingencies                        1.14              0.00                             --
              Total Project Costs         22.98             22.60                            98.3
Project Preparation Fund                   0.00              0.00                             --
      Total Financing Required            22.98             22.60                            98.3




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of         Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing         (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                             millions)    millions)
Borrower                                                  4.98         4.00         80.3
International Development
                                                          18.00            18.60*          103.3
Association (IDA)
Total                                                     22.98            22.60           98.3
Note*: Due to the exchange rate of SDR against US dollar, the project gained about 0.6 million at the time
of project closing.




                                                    20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component 6

USIP2 comprised four components.

Component 1: Ger area water supply – To improve water supply in the ger areas through
extending city-piped water system in the areas of Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-
Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai through: (a) supply and construction of an 8.2 km ductile iron pipe and
67 km of insulated high-density polyethylene pipe (HDPE) with diameters raging from 110mm to
315 mm; (b) supply and construction of 3.8 km of insulated HDPE with diameters raging from
110mm to 160mm with heat trace; (c) construction of two pre-cast concrete reservoirs with
heating houses and access roads; (d) construction of three pumping stations; (e) construction and
rehabilitation of 111 water kiosks connected to the pipe system, and construction and
rehabilitation of 29 kiosks supplied by truck tankers; (f) providing water connection to about 16
institutions and about 7,500 residential properties; (g) supply and installation of 10,000 water
meters of various diameters; (h) supply of 15 water tankers and spare parts; (i) supply of five
vacuum-type fecal vehicles; and (j) supply and installation of various pumps and associated
electrical equipment.

Component 2: City water supply – To strengthen the primary network system within selected
areas, support water conservation, expand monitoring of water flow quality, and upgrade
laboratory analysis capacity through: (a) rehabilitation of the network with about 12.2 km ductile-
iron and steel pipes; (b) upgrading of the West Reservoir pumping station with four pumps and
associated pipes and equipment; (c) supply and installation of pressure reducing and flow control
valves; (d) enhancement of the network telemetering system; (e) enhancement of water quality
monitoring in production wells through five monitoring boreholes, provision of equipment, and
upgrading sample collection sites; (f) supply of spare pipes and consumables to facilitate
maintenance and minor upgrades; and (f) supply and installation of laboratory instrumentation
and equipment.

Component 3: Energy efficiency improvement – To reduce energy consumption by replacing
obsolete high energy-consuming electrical equipment with energy efficient equipment through:
(a) supply and installation of about 90 submersible pumps; (b) supply and installation of two
1000 kW transformers and control systems for intake wells at the Upper Source; and (c)
replacement of 59km of overhead wire lines by cable in Upper, Central, and Meat Source well
fields water installation.

Component 4: Institutional development and project management – To provide technical
advisory assistance to USUG and the MUB to strengthen its institutional development and overall
project management through: (a) preparation of detailed engineering designs and bidding
documents, and assistance with procurement processing; (b) construction supervision and quality
control, and construction management; (c) assistance with overall project management, including
technical, financial, environmental, and social aspects, and reporting; and (d) support for the
institutional development of USUG, particularly for a communications strategy with customers,
internal financial controls, individual connections and metering policy, sanitation policy, private




6
  This annex is drawn largely from the ICR from the Borrower and updated with the additional information collected at
preparation of this ICR.




                                                        21
sector participation of operating kiosks and water trucks, and reducing operating costs (i.e.,
energy and staff costs).

The following table describes actual outputs and current situation of the facilities.




                                                 22
Table A2-1: Planned versus Implementation Output by Sub-Component

                                        Component 1- Ger Area Water Supply Component - Construction/repair of kiosks and their connection to the network
  Activity a) & b) & e) The supply and construction of ductile iron pipe and insulated high-density polyethylene pipe with diameters ranging from 110 mm to 315 mm. + The supply and construction of pipes
  equipped with heat trace + Construction and rehabilitation of kiosks.

  Outputs:                                                                                                   Actual (Details below)                                             Difference
  -   8.2 km ductile iron pipe supplied and constructed                                                  •     13.3 km ductile iron pipe; 14.1 km supplied.                     Differences in quantities and
  -   67 km of insulated high-density polyethylene pipe (HDPE) supplied and constructed                  •     60.3 km HDPE constructed- 69.6 km supplied.                      varieties are due to and in
  -   83.8 km of insulated HDPE Diameters(110 mm to 160 mm) supplied and constructed                     •     20 new + 32 reconstructed and connected to pipe system           accordance to the final
  -   111 new kiosks constructed and connected to the pipe system                                        •     12 new + 5 reconstructed and supplied by truck                   designs implemented
  -   29 kiosks rehabilitated & supplied by truck tankers                                                •     43 kiosks rehabilitated
         Procurement Package                                         Amount/Outputs                        Completion                       Remarks/Changes                    Site Visit Notes
   1.    PEG01- HDPE Pipes                                      22,668m HDPE Insulated Pipes and          100%                            No changes reported               N/A
                                                                fittings + 46,956 m HDPE
                                                                Uninsulated Pipes and fittings
   2.    PSG01 - Steel and Ductile Iron Pipe &                  7446 m DI Insulated Pipes and             100%                            No changes reported               N/A
         Fittings                                               fittings + 6294 m DI Uninsulated
                                                                Pipes and fittings+ 390 m other DI
                                                                Pipes and fittings
   3.    BSC-01 (Lot 1): Bayankhoshuu South Pipelaying &        3845m Ductile+ 16557m HDPE + 13           100%                            No changes reported              Piped system and kiosks visited.
         Kiosks                                                 new/reconstructed kiosks + 13                                                                               Mostly under operation at least
                                                                rehabilitated kiosks                                                                                        for 1 year and had no problem
                                                                                                                                                                            during winter conditions. No
                                                                                                                                                                            sever problems and continuous
                                                                                                                                                                            water supply with improved
                                                                                                                                                                            quality.
   4.    BNC-01 (Lot 2): Bayankhoshuu North Pipelaying &        3424m Ductile+ 15.657 m HDPE +            100%                            No changes reported              Piped system and kiosks visited.
         Kiosks                                                 14 new/ reconstructed kiosks +11                                                                            Mostly under operation at least
                                                                rehabilitated kiosks                                                                                        for 1 year and had no problem
                                                                                                                                                                            during winter conditions. No
                                                                                                                                                                            sever problems and continuous
                                                                                                                                                                            water supply with improved
                                                                                                                                                                            quality.
   5.    CTC-01A (Lot 1): Chingeltei Pipelaying & Kiosks        11.609m HDPE+ 13 new/                     100%                            No changes reported              Piped system and kiosks visited.
                                                                reconstructed kiosks +6 rehabilitated                                                                       Mostly under operation at least
                                                                kiosks.                                                                                                     for 1 year and had no problem
                                                                                                                                                                            during winter conditions. No
                                                                                                                                                                            sever problems and continuous
                                                                                                                                                                            water supply with improved
                                                                                                                                                                            quality.
   6.    DDC-01A (Lot 1): Dari-Ekh Pipelaying & PS              6.042m Ductile+ 4.610 m HDPE+ 10          100%                            No changes reported              Piped system and kiosks visited.
                                                                new/ reconstructed kiosks + 5                                                                               Mostly under operation at least
                                                                rehabilitated kiosks + One pump                                                                             for 1 year and had no problem
                                                                station: 3 big pumps with 300 m3/hr                                                                         during winter conditions. No
                                                                and H: 110 m.                                                                                               sever problems and continuous
                                                                                                                                                                            water supply with improved
                                                                                                                                                                            quality.
   7.    DDC-01B (Lot 2):Dambadarjaa Pipelaying                 11.876 m HDPE+ 10                         100%                            No changes reported              Piped system and kiosks visited.
                                                                new/reconstructed kiosks + 7                                                                                Mostly under operation at least
                                                                rehabilitated kiosks                                                                                        for 1 year and had no problem
                                                                                                                                                                            during winter conditions. No
                                                                                                        23
                                                                                                                                                                      sever problems and continuous
                                                                                                                                                                      water supply with improved
                                                                                                                                                                      quality.
 8.   KSC-01 (Lot 2): Kiosks                                 10 trucked served kiosks                 100%                           No changes reported             Kiosks visited. Mostly under
                                                                                                                                                                      operation at least for 2 years. No
                                                                                                                                                                      sever problems; except some
                                                                                                                                                                      building quality problems and
                                                                                                                                                                      maintenance requirements.
 9.   KSC-01 (Lot 1): Truck Garage                           10 truck capacity garage                 100%                           No changes reported               N/A

                                                                          Component 1- Ger Area Water Supply Component
Activity c & d) & j) Construction of pre-cast concrete reservoirs with associated heating houses and access roads.+ Construction of pumping stations + Supply and installation of pumps and associated
electrical equipment.

Outputs:                                                                                                 Actual (Details below)                                           Difference
-   2 reservoirs(with volumes of 500 m3 and 1,000 m3) constructed                                    •     3 reservoirs                                               Differences in quantities and
-   3 pumping stations (capacities from 60 to 100 l/s.) constructed                                  •     3 pumping station                                          varieties are due to and in
                                                                                                                                                                      accordance to the final designs
                                                                                                                                                                      implemented

      Procurement Package                                       Amount/Outputs                        Completion                       Remarks/Changes                    Site Visit Notes
 1.   PRC-01A(Lot1) :Bayankhoshuu Reservoirs                 2 reservoirs(with volumes of 500      100%                              No changes reported              Reservoirs have been visited;
                                                             m3 and 1,000 m3)                                                                                           are in good condition,
                                                                                                                                                                        equipped with heating and
                                                                                                                                                                        telemetry system.
 2.   PRC-01B(Lot2) :Bayankhoshuu Pumping Stations           Lower PS: 3 Pumps with 110 m3/hr,     100%                              No changes reported              Pump Stations have been
                                                             H: 80 m; 3 big pumps with 300                                                                              visited; are in good condition,
                                                             m3/hr and H: 110 m; 1 kiosk with 2                                                                         equipped with telemetry
                                                             circulation pumps; Q: 36 m3/hr, H:                                                                         system. Generator
                                                             20m.
                                                             Upper Booster PS. 3 big pumps with
                                                             300 m3/hr and H: 110 m; 1 kiosk
                                                             with 2 circulation pumps with Q: 64
                                                             m3/hr, H: 30m.
 3.   CTC-01B (Lot2): Chingeltei Reservoir & PS              1 reservoir with volume of 500 m3     100%                              No changes reported              Pump Station and reservoir
                                                             and 1 pumping station with 3 boost                                                                         have been visited; are in good
                                                             pumps with 110 m3/hr and H: 80 m                                                                           condition, equipped with
                                                                                                                                                                        telemetry system. Generator
 4.   PHG-01: Extension of Khailaast PS (Added)              Supply and installation of pumps      100%                              No changes reported              Pump Station has been visited;
                                                             each with 110 m3/hr and related                                                                            are in good condition,
                                                             equipment and electrical part                                                                              equipped with telemetry
                                                                                                                                                                        system. No generator.
 5.   PPG-01: Pumps, Controls, and Accessories               •    Bayankhoshuu Lower PS: 3         100%                              No changes reported              N/A
                                                                  Pumps with 110 m3/hr, H: 80
                                                                  m; 3 big pumps with 300 m3/hr
                                                                  and H: 110 m; 2 Circulation
                                                                  Pumps; Q: 36 m3/hr, H: 20m.
                                                             •    Bayankhoshuu Upper PS: 3
                                                                  big pumps with 300 m3/hr and
                                                                  H: 110 m; C2irculation Pumps
                                                                  with Q: 64 m3/hr, H: 30m.
                                                             •    Chingeltei PS: 3 boost pumps
                                                                  with 110 m3/hr and H: 80 m
                                                             •    Dari-Ekh PS: 3 boost pumps
                                                                                                    24
                                                                        with 300 m3/hr and H: 110 m
                                                                  •     West PS: 3 boost pumps with
                                                                        630 m3/hr and H: 80 m
                                                                  •     Kiosks Circulation Pumps: 110
                                                                        pcs with 2.2 m3/hr and H: 3 m
                                                                  •     Controls for PSs


                                                                                 Component 1- Ger Area Water Supply Component
Activity f) Providing water connection to institutions (hospitals, schools, clinics) and residential properties.

Outputs:                                                                                                         Actual (Details below)                                                  Difference
-   16 institutions &                                                                                          •   96 houses and 8 institutions water supply connections: 4.6       7500 residential connection was
-   7,500 residential connected to the water supply system                                                         km of PE pipes                                                   design assumption for water
                                                                                                               •   96 house and 8 institutions sewage connections : 2.84 km         system, locating along the
                                                                                                                   of PVC                                                           pipeline upto 100 m on both
                                                                                                               •   mini WWTP : 90 m3/day                                            sides.
                                                                                                                                                                                    Connection to sewage was added
                                                                                                                                                                                    based on a request from the
                                                                                                                                                                                    Minister of Road, Transportation,
                                                                                                                                                                                    Construction and Urban
                                                                                                                                                                                    Development.
       Procurement Package                                             Amount/Outputs                           Completion                         Remarks/Changes                       Site Visit Notes
 1.    HSC-01: USUG House Connections                             •     96 house and 8 institutions          Construction was completed        Household has to provide            Multiple issues were identified
                                                                        water supply connections: 4.6         in May 2011 and the system         internal spacing, plumping            during the first winter.
                                                                        km of PE pipes                        was commissioned in                and accessories such as sink,       The stakeholders are
                                                                  •     96 house and 8 institutions           September 2011.                    toilet, etc.                          investigating and discussing
                                                                        sewage connections: 2.84 km                                             No changes reported.                  the remedial actions.
                                                                        of PVC                                                                                                         .
                                                                  •     mini WWTP       : 91 m3/day


                                                                               Component 1- Ger Area Water Supply Component
Activity g) h) & I) supply of water tankers ( with spare parts, as well as some spare parts for the existing fleet).+ Supply of fecal vehicles (vacuum type), + supply and installation of water meters.


Outputs:                                                                                                       Actual (Details below)                                                  Difference
-   15 water tankers (3 to 15 m3 volume of cistern) supplied and operating                                 •     10 water trucks.                                                   N/A
-   5 fecal vehicles ( with 3 to 15 m3 volume of cistern) supplied and operating                           •     5 vacuum trucks.
-   10.000 water meters ( various diameters) supplied and installed

       Procurement Package                                             Amount/Outputs                        Completion                           Remarks/Changes                      Site Visit Notes
 1.    TKG-01 (Lot 1): Water Trucks and Sewage Trucks                 10 water trucks.                    100%                                  No changes reported                 Trucks are being used
                                                                                                                                                                                      effectively
 2.    TKG-01 (Lot 2): Water Trucks and Sewage Trucks                 5 vacuum trucks.                    100%                                  No changes reported                 Trucks are being used
                                                                                                                                                                                      effectively.
 3.    TKG-02 : Water Truck Parts                                 Removed
 4.    WMG-01: Water Meters                                       Removed




                                                                                                            25
                                                                            Component 2- The City Water Supply component

Activity a) Rehabilitation of network

Outputs:                                                                                                          Actual (Details below)                                      Difference
-   12.2 km ductile-iron and steel pipes (diameters ranging from 250 mm to 600 mm) rehabilitated              •     Removed from project.                                     Removed from project

       Procurement Package                                           Amount/Outputs                               Completion                     Remarks/Changes              Site Visit Notes
 1.    CAC-02- City Pipe Rehab & Replacement                      Removed

                                                                            Component 2- The City Water Supply component

Activity b) Upgrading of West Reservoir pumping station

Outputs:                                                                                                          Actual (Details below)                                     Difference
-   4 pumps (630 l/s each and associated pipes and specials) installed and working                            •     Installation of 3 pumps with 630 m3/hr and related       The scope is re-defined in
                                                                                                                    pipes and accessories including telemetry system.        accordance to the detailed
                                                                                                                                                                             implementation design.
       Procurement Package                                             Amount/Outputs                          Completion                        Remarks/Changes             Site Visit Notes
 1.    CAC-01: West Pump Station Rehabilitation                      •   Rehabilitation of pump             100%                               No changes reported       Pump Station has been visited; is
                                                                         station;                                                                                          in good condition, equipped with
                                                                     •   Installation of 3 pumps with                                                                      telemetry system. No generator.
                                                                         630 m3/hr supplied by the
                                                                         Client.

                                                                            Component 2- The City Water Supply component

Activity c) Supply and installation of pressure reducing and flow control valves at various locations in the city.

Outputs:                                                                                                       Actual (Details below)                                       Difference
-   # of valves supplied and installed                                                                        •  Various pressure reducing valves and control valves        The quantities have been
                                                                                                                 and other equipment supplied and installed to various      defined in accordance to the
                                                                                                                 parts of the network..                                     calculations of the consultant.
       Procurement Package                                            Amount/Outputs                           Completion                      Remarks/Changes              Site Visit Notes
 1.    CAC-03: Control Valve Installation                            11 pressure regulation valves with     100%                            No changes reported          Various locations visited. Control
                                                                     chambers                                                                                              valves are in place and operating
                                                                     12 water discharge valves with                                                                        efficiently.
                                                                     chambers
                                                                     various electromagnetci meters
                                                                     (13)
 2.    VLG-01: Valves and Accessories                                529 Gate Valves; 39 Check              100%                               No changes reported       Various locations visited
                                                                     Valves; 217 Ball Valves; 47 Air                                                                       including pump stations,
                                                                     Valves; 13 Scour Valves; 270                                                                          reservoirs and valve chambers.
                                                                     Pressure Gauge; Thermometer                                                                           Valves are in place and operating
                                                                     120; 26 control valves; 11                                                                            efficiently.
                                                                     Pressure control valves;
 3.    VLG-02: Control & Mechanical Valves (added)                   10 pressure regulation valves with     completed                          No changes reported       Various locations visited. Control
                                                                     chambers, and 10 flow regulation                                                                      valves are in place and operating
                                                                     valves with chambers are installed                                                                    efficiently.
                                                                     for UB WS network.


                                                                              Component 2- The City Water Supply component

                                                                                                             26
Activity d) Enhancement of telemetering system installed under USIP through expansion of monitoring and controls.

Outputs:                                                                                                       Actual (Details below)                                     Difference
-   A Telemetering system installed                                                                        •     Supply and installation of a telemetry system.           N/A

       Procurement Package                                          Amount/Outputs                          Completion                          Remarks/Changes           Site Visit Notes
 1.    TMG-01: Telemetry                                          Supply and installation of             100%                                 No changes reported     Various locations visited
                                                                  telemetry system                                                                                      including pump stations,
                                                                                                                                                                        reservoirs and telemetry center.
                                                                                                                                                                        System is in place, but there were
                                                                                                                                                                        some locations require repairs.
                                                                                                                                                                        Most of the system is operating
                                                                                                                                                                        efficiently.
 2.    TMG-02: Telemetry System in Central Source                 Supply and installation of             completed                            No changes reported     N/A
       (added)                                                    telemetry system in central source
 3.    TCG-02: USUG Training Center Equipment (added)             Supply of equipment for USUG’s         completed                            No changes reported     Some equipment was returned to
                                                                  training center                                                                                       a supplier because it was
                                                                                                                                                                        different from specification.

                                                                           Component 2- The City Water Supply component

Activity e) Enhancement of water quality monitoring in production wells through, monitoring boreholes.

Outputs:                                                                                                       Actual (Details below)                                     Difference
-   5 monitoring boreholes (provision of equipment ) supplied and working                                  •     9 Monitoring wells .constructed or rehabilitated.        N/A
-   # of upgrading sample collection sites reported

       Procurement Package                                         Amount/Outputs                           Completion                          Remarks/Changes          Site Visit Notes
 1.    CAC-04: Monitoring Wells                                   3 New,                                 100%                                 No changes reported     The chambers have been visited.
                                                                  6 reconstruction/rehabilitation

                                                                           Component 2- The City Water Supply component

Activity f) Supply of spare pipes, specials and consumables to facilitate maintenance of the system and minor expansions.

Outputs:                                                                                                    Actual (Details below)                                        Difference
-   # of spare pipes supplied and ready for maintenance                                                    •  Various pipes and accessories have been supplied in         N/A
                                                                                                              various packages.
       Procurement Package                                         Amount/Outputs                           Completion                      Remarks/Changes              Site Visit Notes
 1.    various                                                    Various                                100%                            No changes reported          N/A

                                                                           Component 2- The City Water Supply component

Activity g) Supply and installation of laboratory instrumentation and equipment for water and wastewater

Outputs:                                                                                                       Actual (Details below)                                     Difference
-   Laboratory Instrumentation and equipment installed and working (binocular microscope, air-             •     Laboratory Instrumentation and equipment installed       N/A
    jacketed incubator, ion chromatograph, electronic pipette, glassware)                                        and working

       Procurement Package                                          Amount/Outputs                          Completion                          Remarks/Changes           Site Visit Notes
 1.    LBG-01: Laboratory Equipment                               water and wastewater analysis          100%                                 No changes reported     The laboratory is in place and
                                                                  equipment and lab                                                                                     functioning well. Accreditation
                                                                  instrumentation                                                                                       from Ministry of Standards.


                                                                                                         27
                                                                      Component 3- The Energy Efficiency Improvement component

Activity a), b), c) Supply and installation of submersible pumps + Supply and installation of transformers and control systems for intake wells at the Upper Source + ) Replacing of overhead wire lines by
cable in upper, central and meat complex well fields

Outputs:                                                                                                         Actual (Details below)                                    Difference
-   90 pumps (with capacities from 15 to 45 l/s.) installed                                                  •     Pumps, transformers, overhead wire lines replaced.      -
-   2 transformers(1000 kW) installed and working                                                            •     Frequency convertors remote control system.
-   59 km of overhead wire lines replaced

       Procurement Package                                            Amount/Outputs                           Completion                         Remarks/Changes          Site Visit Notes
 1.    EEG-01: Energy Efficiency                                    4 Frequency convertors, 4                 100%                             Scope of work was        N/A
                                                                    transformers, 87 intake well                                                reviewed during
                                                                    submersible pumps, remote                                                   detailed design.
                                                                    control system; 12 km of overhead
                                                                    line and poles

                                                         Component 4- The Institutional Development and Project Management component

Activity a) Preparation of detailed engineering designs, bidding documents and assistance with the procurement process
         b) Construction supervision and quality control, and construction management.

Outputs:                                                                                                       Actual (Details below)                                      Difference
-   # of technical designs and procurement processes completed                                               •   The designs and procurement works for works               N/A
-   # of supervisors                                                                                             contracts
-   # of quality controls by activity (works and equipment)                                                  •   Works supervised with 5 engineers


       Procurement Package                                           Outputs                                   Completion                         Remarks/Changes          Site Visit Notes
 1.    TA-02: Project Management                                    Design and Supervision of the             100%                             Amendments to            N/A
                                                                    works                                                                       include design of new
                                                                                                                                                components
 2.    TA-01: DED & Construction Management                     Design and supervision                100%                                     No changes reported      N/A
 3.    1IC3     Individual Consulting                           Procurement consultancy,              100%                                     No changes reported      N/A
                                                                preparation of bidding documents
                                                         Component 4- The Institutional Development and Project Management component

Activity c) Assistance with overall project management, including technical, financial, environmental, and social aspects, as well as project reporting.

Outputs:                                                                                                         Actual (Details below)                                    Difference
-   Project performance rating                                                                               •                                                             N/A

       Procurement Package                                           Outputs                                   Completion                        Remarks/Changes           Site Visit Notes
 1.    AUDIT Monitoring and audit                                   Annual Audit Reports                      completed                        No changes reported      N/A
 2.    1IC4    Feasibility Study for Pilot Project                  Feasibility Report for pilot area         100%                             No changes reported      N/A
                                                                    house connection in ger area for
                                                                    Naran and Nisekh.
 3.    1IC5       Local Consultants                                 Local consultancy services for            completed                        No changes reported      N/A
                                                                    PMU
 4.    1IC6       USIP2 evaluation (added)                          Implementation Completion                 completed                        N/A                      N/A
                                                                    Report
 5.    1IC7       Feasibility study for USIP3 (added)               Feasibility for USIP3                     Bidding Stage                    N/A                      N/A


                                                                                                            28
                                                        Component 4- The Institutional Development and Project Management component

Activity d) Supporting institutional development of USUG, in particular in the areas of communication (customer relations) strategy, internal financial controls, individual connections and metering policy,
sanitation policy, private sector participation for operating kiosks and water trucks, and reducing operating costs (particularly energy costs and staff costs).

Outputs:                                                                                                    Actual (Details below)                                          Difference
-   USUG organizational structure strengthened                                                            •   Various trainings                                             N/A
                                                                                                          •   Water Saving Campaign
       Procurement Package                                          Outputs                                 Completion                        Remarks/Changes              Site Visit Notes
 1.    Training                                                    Various training                        completed                        N/A                         N/A
 2.    1IC2- Public communication plan                             Campaign on water saving                completed                        N/A                         N/A
 3.    1IC8- USIP2 exhibition for reporting and advertising        Exhibition                              completed                        N/A                         N/A
       the project activities (added)




                                                                                                         29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Economic Analysis
Ger Area Water Supply
The ger area water supply component was designed to supply water to target ger area households
by laying new water pipelines connecting to water kiosks. The economic rate of return (EIRR) for
this component was evaluated at 14.1% at appraisal. The major assumptions were (i) water
consumption in the target areas will increase from 7 lpcd to 15 lpcd by connecting kiosks to the
network and consequently improve supply; and (ii) the willingness to pay was estimated at Tg723
per m3 based on the 2003 household survey, and was considered to be the economic price of
water. It was concluded at appraisal that the project component was economically justified.

The economic analysis of this ICR focuses on the cost and benefit for the four areas –
Bayankhoshun, Chingeltei, Dari-Ekh, Dambadarjaa 7 – where 102 kiosks were built or
rehabilitated under the project to connect to newly built water pipelines. The EIRR for this
component was reevaluated under the major assumptions below.

(1) The water sales volume for the 102 water kiosks was 0.22 million m3 in 2011, for which
    63,000 people are the beneficiaries with average consumption of 9.6 liter per person. The
    number of beneficiaries will increase by 2.0% per annum. The per capita consumption of
    water will gradually increase to 25 lpcd at the end of project cycle. The water sales volume
    will be 0.75 million m3 in 2030, the twentieth year of operation.
(2) The total project cost is US$8.7 million (Tg 10.6 billion), which is the cost incurred
    excluding duties and taxes and the project cost for the Naran and Uliastai areas.
(3) The economic price of water is Tg 2,840 per m3, which is the highest water price in Mongolia,
    currently applied in Huvsgul aimag, which has a population of 114,000.
(4) The cash operating cost incurred in 2011 is the base for operation and maintenance costs.
(5) The project evaluation period is 26 years starting in 2005 with an operating period of 20 years.

The revaluated EIRR is negative, indicating that the project is not justified by the economic
analysis because the benefits in the project (such as more reliable service delivery and better
access to water kiosks) did not lead to a sufficient increase in water consumption to justify the
investment cost incurred. The reasons for such a stark difference in the evaluation are
overestimation of population in the target areas, number of customers served by project kiosks,
and per capita water consumption under USIP2. USUG has 196 kiosks in the four areas, where
102 kiosks are pipe connected kiosks under USIP2 and the remaining 94 are supplied by water
tankers. The total number of ger area people served by USUG is estimated at 151,000 in 2011,
which is 22% lower than the population of 193,000 estimated at appraisal.




7
  Besides these four areas, Naran and Uliastai were added as project target areas under USIP2. However,
these two areas are remotely located from the newly built pipeline network. Out of the 10 kiosks built in
these areas, 4 kiosks are served by water tankers while 6 are connected to the existing pipeline network, not
to the network built under USIP2.



                                                     30
                   USUG's water kiosk operation in the four target areas

                                                USIP2 piped        water
                                                                                   total
                                                connection        tankers
number of kiosks                                          102               94             196
water sales volume                  ('000 m3)             220              215             435
number of customers                 ('000)                63                88             151
per capita water consumption        (lpcd)                9.6               6.7             7.9


Although all the people were assumed to utilize the kiosks at appraisal, the number of people
served by the project kiosks was 63,000, which accounts for 42% of the total population in the
areas and is a third of that assumed at appraisal. The per capita water consumption for the people
served by the project was 9.6 lpcd, which is 43% higher than 6.7 lpcd for those served by water
tankers. However, it still does not reach the level of 17.7 lpcd assumed at appraisal.

            Kiosk customers and water consumption in the four target areas


                                                   2011         at appraisal
                                                                                  (A)/(B)
                                                    (A)              (B)

water sales volume                  ('000 m3)             220          1,247               18%

number of customers                 ('000)                63               193             33%
per capita water consumption        (lpcd)                9.6           17.7               54%


In order to make this investment economically feasible, water consumption would have needed to
be increased to a much higher level. The original project design that connects water kiosks to the
pipeline network has limitations for that purpose. Further increasing water consumption would
require further investments in the water supply network and sewer systems.

B. Financial Analysis
Ger Area Water Supply
It was concluded at appraisal that the project was not justified on financial grounds since the
financial rate of return (FIRR) was lower than the discount rate. Because the cost of operating the
pipe connection kiosks is Tg 4,800 per m3 against the tariff of only Tg 909 per m3, the ger area
water supply component is not a project which can expect a positive return.

Energy Efficiency Improvement
The FIRR for the energy efficiency improvement component is reevaluated at 12%, which is
financially feasible. This was achieved by replacing obsolete high energy consuming electrical
equipment (pumps, motors, etc.) with energy efficient equipment. The major assumptions for this
reevaluation are as follows.

(1) The water production volume to which this component was applied was 43 million m3 in
    2011. The electricity consumption saved through this component was 3 million kWh, 10% of
    the relevant total electricity consumption. The water production volume will increase by 2%
    per annum while the electricity saving ratio will remain the same during the project period.



                                                     31
(2) The electricity price is Tg 96.8 kWh.
(3) The project cost incurred is US$1.86 million, which is 44% lower than the project cost of
    US$3.30 million estimated at appraisal 8.

Financial Situation of USUG
The financial performance of USUG for the last five years is summarized in the table below.
USUG made a positive operating income of Tg 200 million in 2011 because of the 50% water
and wastewater tariff increases for apartment customers implemented in June 2010. This positive
income occurs for the first time in the last ten years. However, USUG is expected to fall into
negative operating income again in 2012 due to a substantial increase in operating costs 9 .
USUG’s financial situation is quite different from what was envisaged at appraisal, which
assumed USUG would be able to achieve net income in 2008 and onwards.

                                  USUG: Summary Results of Financial Performance
                                                       (T g million)


                                                        2007            2008         2009          2010          2011

    Water Sales Volume (,000 m3)                      42,861           43,818      42,200        41,900         43,000

    Operating Revenues                                14,765           16,779      18,425        20,719         24,048

    Cash Operating Cost                               10,311           12,886      14,702        16,213         18,159
    Depreciation                                       5,108            5,060       4,839         5,410          5,689

    Operating Income                                     -654          -1,167      -1,116          -904            200
    Interest Expense                                    1,907           1,586       1,783         2,091          1,690
    Foreign Exchange Loss                              -2,097          -2,803      -6,982         8,792         -5,640

    Net Income                                         -4,697          -5,485      -9,835         6,279         -6,931

    Operating Cost Recovery                              0.96            0.93        0.94           0.96          1.01

This difficult financial situation mainly results from the tariff levels unable to cover costs. At
appraisal the Bank proposed to increase both water and wastewater tariffs by 50% for OSNAAG
customers and by 40% for other customers in 2004, and by 15% in 2006 and every two years
onwards. This was never realized as proposed. Tariff increases were delayed and kept low,
particularly for apartment customers, as shown in the table below.




8
 The FIRR was estimated at 25% at appraisal. Since there is no detailed account available of the calculation of FIRR at
appraisal, it has not been provided in this report as to why the FIRR was halved while the actual project cost incurred
was substantially reduced.

9
    The government decided to raise the salary of its employees by 50% in February 2012.




                                                           32
                                            Water and Wastewater Tariffs*
                                                            (T g/m3)
                                                     2004                                              2010
                                    at appraisal    actual                             at appraisal   actual
                                        (A)          (B)           (B)/(A)                 (A)         (B)          (B)/(A)
 Water Supply
 Industry/Institutions                      280          200           0.71                    426            550       1.29
 OSNAGG Companies                           168          112           0.67                    256            251       0.98
 Individual apt.                            253          181           0.72                    385            251       0.65
 Ger Area                                   500          500           1.00                    500            909       1.82

 Waste Water
 Industry                                   161          115           0.71                    245            600       2.45
 Institutions                               161          115           0.71                    245            300       1.22
 OSNAGG Companies                           108           72           0.67                    164            147       0.90
 Individual apt.                            147          105           0.71                    224            147       0.66

 * Net of VAT
 ** Tariffs for OSNAGG companies and individual apartments were raised on June 23, 2010
    Tg 167 to Tg251 for water supply and Tg 98 to Tg 147 for waste water.

Due to such insufficient and delayed tariff increases as well as the financing arrangement in
which USUG is totally exposed to exchange rate fluctuation risks, USUG fell into a difficult
financial situation soon after signing the USIP2 loan agreement, and stopped debt payments
completely in 2006. Long-term debt increased by Tg 24 billion to Tg 62 billion for 2011 as a
substantial portion of assets under USIP2 was transferred to USUG in December 2011. The debt
to equity ratio for USUG deteriorated to 90:10. USUG has reached the stage that tariff increases
alone will not enable it to be financially viable. As the Bank recommended since the MTR,
USUG’s long-term debt has to be substantially reduced by way of a debt to equity conversion to
make USUG financially viable.10

                                                   USUG: Balance Sheet
                                                        (Tg million)

                                                          2007               2008       2009           2010             2011

 Total Assets                                           57,601           58,802       65,036          65,071          85,610

 Long-term Debt                                         36,327           37,846       44,871          38,145          62,279
 Other Long-term Liabilities*                            6,577           11,397       13,550          11,427          14,402
 Equity                                                 14,361            8,431        6,236          14,986           8,204

 Debt to Equity Ratio**                                     75%              85%        90%             77%             90%
 * accumulated unpaid interst paument
 ** (long-term debt + other L-T liabilities)/(long-term debt + other L-T liabilities +shareholder's equity)




10
   Led by the ministry of construction, the government is now processing this capital restructuring to reduce the burden
of debt on USUG.




                                                              33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
           Names                       Title                Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Raja Iyer               Institutional Specialist           EASUR Task Team Leader
Hubert Jenny            Senior Municipal Engineer          EASUR
Anthony Whitten         Senior Biodiversity Specialist     EASES
                        Senior Social Development
Youlan Zou                                                 EACCF
                        Specialist
Rosa Muleta             Finance Officer                    LOAAS
Kannathee Danaisawat    Financial Management Specialist    EACTF
                                                                   Procurement
Hye-Yon Kim             Operations Analyst                 EASIN
                                                                   Assistant
Jaroslav Kozel          Consultant                         EASUR   Sanitary Engineer
                                                                   Procurement
R. Gopalkrishnan        Consultant                         EAPCO
                                                                   Specialist
Pritha Venkatachalam    Consultant                         EASUR   Financial Analyst
Henning Reini           Consultant                         EASUR   Economist
Bharat Dahiya           Consultant                         EASUR   Urban Specialist
Nilufar Egamberdi       Consultant                         EASUR   Anthropologist
Nyamjav Zaanhuu         Consultant                         EASUR   Urban Planner

Supervision/ICR
Hubert Jenny            Senior Municipal Engineer          EASUR Task Team Leader
Takuya Kamata           Country Manager                    ECCUZ Task Team Leader
Yoonhee Kim             Urban Economist                    LCSUW
Ivan Velev              Country Sector Coordinator         ECSSD
                                                                  Environmental
Anthony J. Whitten      Senior Biodiversity Specialist      ECSS2
                                                                  Spec
Songling Yao            Senior Social Development Spec     EASCS
Tumentsogt Tsevegmid    Senior Infrastructure Specialist   EASCS
Xiaoping Li             Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Jinan Shi               Senior Procurement Specialist      EAPPR
Gerelgua Tserendagva    Procurement Specialist             EASR2
Lhagvasuren Ochir       Operations Officer                 EACMF
Melissa Morris          Junior Professional Associate      EASSD
Brett Sedgewick         Junior Professional Associate       EASIN
Vellet E. Fernandes     Program Assistant                   EASIN
Nomuuntugs Tuvaan       Program Assistant                  EACMN
Bharat Dahiya           Consultant                         MNSRE Urban Specialist
Masato Sawaki           Consultant                                Financial Analyst



                                         34
Edouard Henri Motte       Consultant                         EASCS   Water Engineer
Claudio Purificato        Consultant                         C3PDR   Water Engineer
Orgodol Sanjaasuren       Consultant                         EACMF
Kenneth Chee Hoong Wong   Consultant                         EASUR
Youlan Zou                Consultant                         EASCS   Social Dev Spec
Meskerem Brhane           Senior Urban Specialist            EASIN
Toyoko Kodama             Operations Officer                 EASIN   Task Team Leader
Evelyn Villatoro          Senior Procurement Specialist      EASR1
Yiren Feng                Senior Environmental Specialist    EASCS
Alexander V. Danilenko    Senior Water and Sanitation Spec   TWIWP
Orgilt Altankhuyag        Consultant                                 Water Engineer

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                          2.96                    88.15
  FY03                                          2.79                    59.75
  FY04                                         16.43                   221.21

                          Total:               22.18                   369.11
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                         20.66                    87.33
  FY06                                         32.29                   104.94
  FY07                                         13.61                    57.77
  FY08                                         20.59                    76.50
 FY09                                          12.28                    76.03
 FY10                                           4.55                    55.09
 FY11                                           7.48                    50.55
 FY12                                           7.30                    67.98

                          Total:           118.76                      576.19




                                          35
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

This Annex is a summary of the very comprehensive Borrower’s Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), and does not repeat matters presented in the main text of the ICR. For
completeness, the Bank ICR has drawn liberally from the Borrower’s ICR.


Expected objectives to be achieved by components:
(a) The ger area water supply component, to improve water supply in the ger areas of
Bayankhoshuu, Chingeltei, Dambadarjaa, Dari-Ekh, Naran, and Uliastai:
The results showed that the project design was appropriate and the proposed physical investments
were sufficient to meet the objectives of the component, according to which more reliable and
better water supply system with reasonable number of kiosks per ger area have been established.

(b) The city water supply component, to strengthen the primary network system in selected
areas, support water conservation and leakage control, and expand monitoring of water flows
and water quality: The activities are in line with the feasibility findings. The city network system
is in average a 50 years old system with many components that fulfilled their economic life. The
pipes are old cast iron pipes with many corrosion and leaks. There is an increasing demand in the
city as its population grows. The system lacked a proper laboratory for testing water and
wastewater. The telemetry system installed in USIP-1 needs to be enhanced with expanding
monitoring and control throughout the network.

(c) The energy efficiency improvement component, to replace selected obsolete
high energy consuming electrical equipment with energy efficient equipment:
The project envisaged to replace obsolete equipment with 90 submersible pumps, installation of
transformers for intake wells and upper source, as well as replacing 59 km of overhead wire lines.

(d) The institutional development and project management component, to support further
improvements in selected operational and commercial aspects of USUG, as well as the overall
project management of USIP2: This component is designed in accordance to the need analysis
provided in the feasibility study.

Environmental Issues
The responsibility for implementation and supervision of EMP were shared between the
contractors of the civil works packages, the outsourced Supervision Consulting Team and the
PMU as the implementation agency. In the operation stage, this time USUG, OSNAAG and the
Municipality above them were the main actors responsible for the implementation and
supervision of EMP.

Two main aspects of project preparation to be taken under consideration:
     • confirmation of the right to access lands for survey purposes, (topographic and
         subsoil),
     • subsoil investigation pits.

None of these aspects is considered to be a source of major impacts, provided that reasonable
health and safety measures were applied during the pre-construction activities. During
implementation stage of works, some short-term impacts occurred on the physical and social
environment. The typical project activities during construction phase consisted of leveling of site



                                                36
including hill slope cutting, digging for Installation of water supply pipelines, hauling of
construction material (sand, gravel, cement, concrete, steel bars, etc.) to the site and hauling of
excess excavation material
to the temporary and final storage areas. The main impacts of these activities are identified in EIA
report as follows:

       •   Generation of dust from excavation works, traffic of heavy trucks;
       •   Generation of polluting gases by the construction machinery (excavators, trucks, etc.);
       •   Noise and construction disturbance.

Beside these impacts, an increased risk of accidents involving local populations, especially
children was one of the major risks during in site construction works. In order to minimize the
above nuisances, some mitigation measures were identified in EMP and the most important and
easily implemented ones were as follows:

       •   All vehicles delivering materials to the site be covered to avoid spillage of materials.
       •   The exhaust gases should comply with the requirements of the relevant current
           emission control legislation of Mongolia
       •   At construction sites within 150 m of settlements, noisy construction to be stopped
           between 10.00 PM and 6.00 AM
       •   All necessary safeguards be taken to ensure safety, welfare and good health of all
           persons entitled to be on site and the residents as well.

None of the ger residents interviewed complained about these impacts of construction works
because they were not significant and permanent and they are very happy for the improved water
supply services.

Procurement Performance
The project procurement performance has been of very good quality. All project packages, except
those removed, have been implemented with success and with no severe delays or cancellations.
A total 124 contracts were completed. The expected average accomplishment duration for works
contracts is 6-9 months staring from announcement date, whereas the project has succeeded to
have an average of 6.5 months on average in spite of the first 2-3 procurement processes which
took around 12 months in average. For goods, the average duration was around 7 months
comparing to expected average of 6-8 months.

Financial Management and Audit Compliance
According to the Article III of the Project Agreement the MUB should have established and
maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the
IDA.

In line with above provisions of the Project Agreement; the PMU and USUG had their financial
statements audited by independent qualified auditors. At the time of the ICR preparation, the
audit report for the year 2010 for USIP2 had not been finalized. A review of the earlier audit
reports reflects that the independent auditors certified that Financial Monitoring Reports of
USIP2, comprising balance sheets, statements of sources and uses of funds, uses of funds by
project activities, physical progress reports and contract expenditure reports had been presented
fairly and compliant to the IDA standards.




                                                37
Analysis of Financial Situation of USUG
The analysis of financial situation USUG has been carried out over the audited financial
statements of the years 2008, 2009 and 2010.

USUG has been suffering from operational losses since the start of USIP2. Operational
losses have been reported since 2005. The operational profit margin has been stable around -15%
for 2008-2010 periods as shown below:
    • The weight of cash operation costs increased from 74% in 2008 to 79% in 2009 and seem
        to stabilize at this level onwards. This is likely due to increase in the power unit cost and
        staffing costs.
    • USUG has been able to meet the cash operating costs in full and the depreciation costs to
        a large extent. The coverage of depreciation cost has been 81.5% in 2010.

The policies of the MUB govern in terms of shaping the financial standing of USUG, which has
been stuck between the MUB and OSNAAG. Therefore, assessment of the financial performance
of USUG should be extended to a prior analysis of the institutional background of the water
sector in which USUG has been governed by MUB policies. These policies seemingly may create
more serious problems especially when the repayment period for the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan comes in 2014, in the current context converting on-lending loans to equity will
be crucial for USUG, the Ministry of Finance is currently reviewing the feasibility to present a
law to forgive public debts to several entities among those is MUB/ USUG, given that the
investments being made under the USIP2 project are of social protection nature and do not justify
commercial cost recovery through tariff revenues.

The tariff adjustment issue needs to be analyzed in a broader context taking into account the
existing institutional setting. The dependencies among the related institutions and the logical
chain towards the problem are as follows:

IDA Performance
Project identification, preparation and appraisal were based on the National Sector strategy and
priorities. The components for the water system improvement as well as for the Institutional
Strengthening were correctly identified and properly designed. Three task managers were
involved with the project from its inception, follow-up and completion.

One of the key issues that the Bank Aide Memoires constantly reflects is the one related to the
Water Tariffs Policy, this is a pending relevant issue that the MUB and USUG have to deal with.
A more rationale tariff scheme for the ger areas vs, the tariffs set for the residential areas, it is still
an issue that needs to be dealt with to increase the effects and later impact in the poorest ger
areas. The role of the Bank in this regard was relevant as it made the problem visible, the
authority and responsibility lies in the Borrower to implement a sounder tariff policy.

None of the aide memoirs made reference to environmental monitoring reports. The main reason
of these deficiencies might be the status of the environmental impacts which are identified as
non-significant negative impacts in construction stage. However, the implementation of EMP
should have been supervised regularly and the environmental monitoring reports should have
been prepared in accordance with the schedule given in EMP regardless of the importance of the
impacts.

The coordination with the PMU as well as with other players in the project has been very good,
especially in the last phase of the implementation. The extension of the period was technically



                                                   38
justifiable and the WB positive decision favored to complete the expected activities that would
contribute to the outcome achievement. The Bank’s performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrowers Performance
The PMU performance has facilitated that all the activities set in the procurement plan were
delivered opportunely, the financial system worked as well in a proper way despite some of the
bureaucratic processes that had to be followed given the organizational setting of the PMU, PIU,
USUG MUB and the guidelines set by the Ministry of Finance for the financial management.

Significant delays in the implementation of works is due to the weak and not realistic planning for
the construction works taking into account the severe weather conditions that construction type of
projects have to face in Mongolia.

PIU role in supervising the works has been positive, although there is room for improvement in
the actual planning of the works. It can be ascertain that the PIU work strengthens the USUG
organization.

USUG performance has been positive despite a late involvement in the project. USUG has been
going through a restructuring internal process that should further its institutional capacity to be
better prepared to face the institutional challenges. It has to take the lead in the development and
establishment of a new Tariff policy to make the entity financial sustainable.

Given the different entities and units involved in the project implementation and the performance
improvement increase as the project implementation progressed, the overall borrower
performance has been Satisfactory.

Assessment of Outcomes
All components of the project objectives, design and implementation are relevant and consistent.
These can be seen from the project planning and implementation/output matrices attached (Annex
3). Especially component 1- the improvement of water system in ger areas had quite good impact
thanks to the relevancy and efficiency of the project implementations.

The interviews made in the ger area show that the main objective to provide improved water
supply to the urban poor in a sustainable manner has been achieved in the target areas.

Component 1- Improvement of ger area water supply system: People of the target Ger areas are
receiving continuous drinking water, the number of residents served by kiosk is decreased, and
the distance to reach water is shortened. Therefore, objectives are achieved.
Component 2- Improvement of City Water Supply component: The project has accomplished
many improvement including installation of control valves, rehabilitation of pump stations,
extension of telemetry system and establishment of a lab. However, the network rehabilitation
component had to be removed due to the high cost of the selected technology. Hence, the
objectives of this component can be stated as not fully but mostly met.
Component 3- Energy Efficiency: 87 submersible pumps, 12 km of overhead wire lines have
been replaced and electrical equipment replaced and 4 transformers and 4 frequency convertors
have been installed at the sources for energy efficiency. According to water production and
energy consumption data of USUG (Annex 9), unit energy consumption rate (kwh/m3 water) is
calculated as 0.70 kwh/m3 in the 1st 5 months of 2011. This rate was 0.78 kwh/m3 in the same
period of 2010. It means that the energy consumption of the water production facilities (i.e. well
pumps mainly) decreased by 10%. However, when the unit energy consumption rate of last 4
years are reviewed, it is realized that the average energy consumption rate of last 4 years became


                                                39
0.71 kwh/m3. According to these figures, the changes did not make much difference in energy
saving. But, this doesn’t jeopardize the need for the investments, in particular the replacement of
pumps, which mostly completed their economic life being around 30-50 years operated in the
system.
Component 4: Institutional development and Project Management: this component had many
activities to support the project management and capacity building of PMU, PIU and USUG. The
major deficiency was related to some institutional development targets for USUG, such as
communication strategy development for customers or sanitation policy development could not
be achieved.

Post Completion Operation Phase
The facilities constructed have been transferred to USUG who operates them in an efficient way.
It was observed that USUG has sufficient capacity to effectively operate and maintain the
facilities with sufficient technical and human resources capacity. However, a more systematic
approach in maintenance has to be established internally. The review and preparation of a yearly
costed maintenance plan with clear protocols for each specific asset/ facility provided would
further strengthen USUG. Yet a general maintenance program is conducted.

Lessons Learned
The following main lessons are drawn during the evaluation work for the USIP2 project:

    i.   Delays in implementation: Planning of works should take into account local conditions,
         such as climate, local capacity, etc., and reflect them in the work plans.
   ii.   House connections: The delays due to the affordability problems in house connections
         proved that the feasibility was done only from the technical perspective. A financial
         model needs to be developed for the success of the future projects.
  iii.   Ger area is open to any participatory approach and development efforts to improve their
         living conditions, though this needs different approaches to involve them more actively,
         the SIA proposed the Participatory Monitoring. The site interviews showed that a high
         ownership developed among beneficiaries for the provided facilities and future possible
         improvements.
  iv.    PIU’s early involvement was very successful in strengthening the process. The future
         projects should take into account this fact and involve USUG/PIU from very early stages,
         i.e. identification phase to have a full ownership and smooth project implementation.
   v.    The capacity of local contractor’s in international contract management needs to be
         developed.
  vi.    Involvement of other funding agencies support the implementation, for example JSDF
         projects for community centers seem to have positive influence in increasing the
         awareness and mobilization of the ger area communities towards the project. Besides,
         there are other funding agencies providing services in water sector in Ulaanbaatar, and
         coordination with these agencies is necessary to gain from their outputs and lessons, as
         well as to avoid duplications.
 vii.    The supervision consultant’s role needs to be increased to assume a more effective
         “engineer? role in accordance to the WB contracts
 viii.   The lack of a social development specialist has weakened the social aspect of the project,
         making it to engineering oriented, neither USUG the PIU and the PMU have paid
         attention, the engineering processes have prevailed.
  ix.    Early design and development of a good monitoring and evaluation system is critical in
         project implementation. A well designed system and tools would ensure quality data and
         strengthening of a municipal and national M &E system.



                                                40
 x.    The Public Awareness Campaign should feedback the stakeholders to learn from what
       were the strong messages and a better way to approach the water usage and management.
       Baseline data and survey studies are absolutely important in measuring the impact of a
       project.
xi.    An Environmental Division should be established within the PMU and staffed with an
       environmental specialist. This division should supervise the implementation of EMP and
       prepare monitoring reports taking into consideration the reports prepared by the
       contractors and Supervision Consultant (Engineer).
xii.   The project has decreased the cost of reaching to safe water for poor, according to site
       interviews and comparison with the baseline situation, when the poor was purchasing bad
       quality of trucked water mostly with double price from private operators.




                                             41
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   1.    Project Appraisal Document
   2.    Loan Agreement
   3.    Project Agreement
   4.    Environment Impact Assessment
   5.    Environmental Management Plan
   6.    Resettlement Action Plan
   7.    Mission Aide Memoires and Bank-to-Office Reports
   8.    Implementation Status Reports
   9.    Semi-annual Project Progress Reports
   10.   Restructuring Papers
   11.   Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report
   12.   Implementation Completion Memorandum of the Community-led Infrastructure
         Development and Sanitation Project (TF-53820)




                                            43
Annex 8. USUG Performance Status

Introduction
The Ulaanbaatar Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (USUG) was established in 1949 to
provide water and sanitation services to Mongolia’s capital city. The company’s distribution
services and networks were designed in the late 1970s with anticipated demand to serve
approximately 500,000 residents and a limited number of industries which were concentrated
mainly in the western and southern parts of Ulaanbaatar. A central wastewater treatment plant
with a capacity of 175,000 m3/day became operational in 1986.

Since the early 1990s, Mongolia has made an active transition to a market economy. The country
also abolished its mandatory population registration rules. Both these factors have significantly
contributed to the population growth of the country’s capital city. Ulaanbaatar reached a
population of over one million people in 2009. Urban sprawl has increased the total land area of
the city which now expands into its former suburban areas. Most of this sprawl occurred in
regions predominantly to the North and the West of the city by squatters of settlers from other
areas of the country. As these squatters made their relocation more permanent, the outer lying
areas (known as gers) were eventually formalized by the municipality in 2007.

These ger areas are further split into khoroos, the smallest administrative unit of the city usually
comprised of 7,000 – 10,000 people. Since 2007, the number of khoroos has grown from 121 to
152 in 2011 due to continuous expansion of the ger areas. Over the past several years, the
Ulaanbaatar municipality has been providing limited transport, energy, solid waste, and water
supply and sanitation services to these ger districts, which now occupy roughly 95 percent of the
municipal territory. USUG is mandated to provide water and sanitation services to all city users
as a municipal company.

                         Table A8-1. Ulaanbaatar Population
Year        1975         1980           1999          2005               2009          2010
Population. 325          500            666           952                1,073         1,152
000
Number of                                             121                140           152
khoroos
Source: USUG. Khoroos were formally instituted in 2001.

Ulaanbaatar USUG Services Overview
The main source of water for the city is a set of underground water intakes along the Tuul River
riverbed. The city is fully dependent on the Tuul River groundwater resources that are
hydraulically connected to the surface run-off.

USUG operations are affected by very severe climate conditions, especially cold weather
conditions that make the average annual temperature for Ulaanbaatar close to + 1.6 Celsius (C).
During the winter season, the land freezes up to four meters, burying water and wastewater
networks deep into the ground. Freezing of water and wastewater systems is a common problem
for USUG. For example, during the 2010/2011 winter season about 26 kilometers (km) of the
water network was frozen in the western part of the city, and USUG had to provide water in
tankers to the population living in that area.

The existing USUG water system covers the original urban areas of Ulaanbaatar, which are
primarily residential apartment buildings. The more recently developed ger areas are supplied


                                                44
through several water mains connected to an extensive network of water kiosks which sell USUG
water. Since 1999 USUG was able to connect about 80 percent of water kiosks to water mains.
The remaining 20% is served by tankers. A 1000 m3 clear water reservoir that was built on top of
a mountain near the northern part of the Chingeley district is the main water source for the
Chingeley and the Northern Sukhbaatar districts where the majority of gers are located.

As of today, USUG provides water to about 800,000 people or 70 percent of the city’s population
(see Graph 1). The remaining population either own wells or rely on provisions from other small
scale providers. A small part of the city territory is also served by non-government organizations
(NGO) that buy water from USUG.

                                Graph A8-1. USUG Revenue Breakdown by Customer Group
                    12,000.00
  Millions




                    10,000.00
                                                                                                           Billed to gers, MNT
                     8,000.00
                     6,000.00                                                                              Billed to apartment households,
                                                                                                           MNT
                     4,000.00
                                                                                                           Billed to non-domestic users,
                     2,000.00                                                                              MNT
                            -
                                       2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010


                                                  Graph A8-2. USUG Water Coverage
                    1,400                                                                   75%
                    1,200                                                                   74%
                                                                                            73%
                    1,000
  Population, 000




                                                                                            72%                     Population
                                                                                                  Coverage, %




                     800                                                                    71%
                     600                                                                    70%                     Served by USUG
                                                                                            69%
                     400
                                                                                            68%                     Coverage with water
                     200                                                                    67%                     services
                       -                                                                    66%
                                2005


                                          2006


                                                    2007


                                                              2008


                                                                        2009


                                                                                  2010




Between 2006 and 2010, USUG was able to service an additional 120,000 customers; however
this number is below Ulaanbaatar’s ongoing urbanization rate. As illustrated in Graph 1,
Ulaanbaatar’s population grew over the past five years, and while USUG also increased the
number of customers it served, coverage as a percentage decreased because population grew at a
faster rate.




                                                                            45
        Graph A8-3. Changes in Customer Number from Year-to-Year (2005=100%)
 125%
 120%
 115%
                                                                         Connected to the main
 110%                                                                    distribution system
 105%
 100%
  95%                                                                    Served through USUG kiosks
  90%                                                                    and stand-pipes
            2005


                     2006


                              2007


                                       2008


                                               2009


                                                        2010
As providing water services to the ger areas was the largest challenge to USUG, the company
installed several new kiosks in the gers; however, the major focus remained on connecting new
apartment complexes, which was achieved through connections to the main distribution system
(see Graph A8-3).

Average water consumption in gers is approximately 6-7 liters per capita a day (lpcd) (see Graph
A8-4). Consumption is this low because of a lack of wastewater connections. However, water is
constantly supplied through the USUG mains to most schools, hospitals, khoroo centers, saunas,
and a variety of other public and private institutions located in gers.

Apartment dwellers consume substantially more water than ger residents. However, total
consumption by apartment dwellers is higher because it includes residents’ water consumption as
well as water used by their relatives living in gers who visit at least once a week in all seasons to
take baths, shower, or do laundry.

                   Graph A8-4. Water Consumption by User Category, Lpcd
  350

  300

  250                                                                   Residential Consumption
  200
                                                                        Residential Consumption -
  150                                                                   connections to main supply

  100                                                                   Residential Consumption -
                                                                        public water points
   50

    -
          2005      2006     2007     2008     2009     2010




                                                 46
                                            Graph A8-5. USUG Production, Consumption and Unaccounted Losses
                                      250                                                35%
   Production and consumption, lpcd
                                                                                         30%
                                      200




                                                                                               Unaccounted losses, %
                                                                                         25%
                                      150                                                20%                           Production, lpcd

                                      100                                                15%                           Average consumption, lpcd

                                                                                         10%                           Unaccounted losses, %
                                       50
                                                                                         5%

                                       -                                                 0%
                                               2005

                                                      2006

                                                             2007

                                                                    2008

                                                                           2009

                                                                                  2010
USUG made significant improvements in both internal and consumption metering,
implementation of automation techniques for metering, and application of new technologies in its
water services operations. Almost 100 percent of apartment customers that have direct contracts
with USUG have meters installed in their units. All new apartments constructed after 2002 have
meter installations, and about 70 percent of older apartment buildings are metered. This resulted
in a drop in the rate of unaccounted losses to just below 20% as it was reported in 2010 (see
Graph A8-5).

Production and consumption in a liters per capita daily (lpcd) measure also decreased over the
past several years. This is a positive indicator because water is a limited resource in Ulaanbaatar.
Water production and consumption decreased as a result of three main factors: (i) a water savings
campaign conducted under USIP2; (ii) increased metering for apartment units; and (iii) a rise in
the water tariff.

USUG Summary Financial Position
USUG struggles to cover its operating and maintenance costs. Its operations are clearly split
between services of ger and non-ger areas (see Graphs A8-6 and A8-7). The seemingly higher
tariffs to ger consumers do not bring sufficient revenue to even cover the costs of operation in ger
areas, especially because USUG’s cost structure is distorted due to higher costs of servicing ger
areas which require more staff and resources. Every customer in the ger area brings USUG a loss
of about US$9.40 a year (see Graph A8-8).




                                                                                  47
                      Graph A8-6. Annual Revenue per Person Served, Tg
30,000.00

25,000.00

20,000.00
                                                                        Annual revenue per person in
15,000.00                                                               ger, MNT
                                                                        Annual revenue per person in
10,000.00                                                               apartment, MNT

 5,000.00

        -
               2005     2006   2007   2008    2009        2010


            Graph A8-7. Cost of Operations Break-Down by Customer Group, Tg
6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000                                                                         Cost per m3, ger, T
                                                                              Cost per m3 all others, T
2,000

1,000

   -
            2005      2006     2007    2008        2009          2010


            Graph A8-8. Annual Cost and Revenues per Person in Ger Areas, Tg
16,000.00
14,000.00
12,000.00
10,000.00                                                               Annual revenue per person,
 8,000.00                                                               MNT

 6,000.00                                                               Annual cost per person a year,
                                                                        MNT
 4,000.00
 2,000.00
        -
               2005     2006   2007   2008    2009        2010




                                              48
USUG’s tariff collection rate is close to 100 percent for the industry/institutions and ger areas that
it serves. However, collection rates are much lower for apartment customers who are retailed
water services through OSNAAG, which often delays transfer of revenue to USUG.

             Graph A8-9. Increase in Cost Items from Year-to-Year, 2005=100%

 2010

 2009

 2008
                                                                                       Electricity
 2007
                                                                                       Labor
 2006

 2005

        0%        50%        100%        150%         200%      250%        300%


Electricity and labor costs have continued to climb for USUG (see Graph A8-9). In an effort to
better recover costs in the electricity sector, the government of Mongolia increased tariffs by at
least 50% in two separate instances, and it is expected that electricity costs will continue to grow
as electricity for USUG is currently underpriced at about US$0.06/kWh. Similarly, wage rates
have continued to increase as a result of hiring more staff and also due to an overall rise in wage
rates.

Conclusions
USUG is an established and technically sound water and wastewater services provider. Its water
services are well-designed and are continuing to provide water to all connected customers on 24/7
basis. However, USUG has the challenging task of providing water services to Ulaanbaatar’s
growing population. While USUG has installed several new kiosks in ger areas and connected
apartment buildings to main water distribution lines, the rate of the city’s urbanization has
outpaced the rate at which USUG has been able to provide service to customers.

USUG provides water to ger areas through a network of kiosks and tankers. These services are
extremely costly for USUG and do not generate enough revenue to cover costs of the operation.
As electricity tariffs and wage rates continue to rise, it is likely that USUG will be further
squeezed financially at a time when greater capital investments will need to be funded to further
expand water services to Ulaanbaatar’s growing population. This situation is not sustainable in
the long run, and alternative means will have to be considered.




                                                 49
Annex 9. Studies and Other Projects Implemented

Besides the Community-led Infrastructure Development Project for the Urban Poor, the following
studies and projects were implemented with additional resources during project implementation.
They provided valuable input for the project and supported achieving the project development
objectives.

(a) Strengthening Public Expenditure Capacity and Human Resource Management in MUB. This
was financed by an IDA grant of US$ 0.3 million and aimed at improving: (i) the public
expenditure management of MUB and related organizations in conformity with laws governing
the management and financing of public institutions; (ii) improving human resource management;
and (iii) providing the necessary equipment and tools for MUB to carry-out training.

(b) Ulaanbaatar Water and Wastewater Master Plan. The master plan study was financed by a
French grant of EUR 0.7 million. The study evaluated UB’s water supply and wastewater
collection system, identified the necessary actions to be taken, and defined a long term investment
plan by 2020.

(c) Environmental Reforms in Mongolia. This activity was financed by a Dutch grant of
US$ 1.85 million with the objective of facilitating green area development and
construction/rehabilitation of UB’s flood protection drainage system.

(d) Exploring Options for Management Contracting-out in Water Supply and Sanitation Services
for Ger Areas in Ulaanbaatar. The study aimed to examine options for using performance-based
subsidy approaches to increase access to services for the peri-urban poor, exploring options for
mobilizing the private sector for construction and operation of communal water services in the
peri-urban areas and proposing a regulatory framework to govern these services. It was funded
by a grant by the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF).

(e) Managing Urban Expansion in Mongolia: Best Practices in Scenario-Based Urban Planning.
The study aimed to help policy makers and citizens of UB better understand consequences of
their policies and practices by providing a clear implication of costs and benefits of different
development paths. Public consultation and dissemination of the study was funded by a grant of
US$75,000 from Cities Alliance.




                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 32971




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                 SECOND ULAANBAATAR
                                                                                                                                                                             SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GER AREAS
 MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                         DAMBADARJAA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GER AREAS COVERED BY UBSIP-2
                                                                                               CHINGELTEI
                                                                                                                                         S U K H B A ATA R                                                                 GER AREAS COVERED BY UBSIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                           DISTRICT
                                                                                                             DOLOON                                                                                                        ROADS
                                                                                                             BUUDAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS




                                                                                                                     S e lb e
                                                                                                             TAVAN                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                           KHAILAAST




                                                                                                                         R.
                                                       BAYANKHOSHUU                                         BUUDAL

              SONGINO                                                             CHINGELTEI




                                                                                                                                                                                  U li a st a i
         K H AY R K H A N
                               R.




                                                                                   DISTRICT
                            To lg o it




                                                                                                                                               B AYA N Z U R K H
              DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                                      R.
                                                                                                            GUCHIN
                                                                                                            KHOYR
                                                                                                                                                     DISTRICT
                                                                                      ZURAGT      NOGOONNUUR
                                                                                            DENJIN
                                                                                                           ZUUN                                                            SHAR
                                                                                                             AIL
                                                                          NARAN            MYANGA                                                                          KHAD
                                                                                                                                                             TSAIZ
                                                                                                             EAST KHUREE
                                             KHANIN
                                                                                                                                SANSAR
                                            MATERIAL
                                                                                      GANDAN                                              DENJIYN
        TOLGOIT
                                                                       NARAN                                                                              ULAAN KHUARAN                           ULIASTAI
                                                            UNER                                                                          A L TA N
                                                                                                                     EAST SELBE
                                                                                                                                          TEVSH
                                                                                                                                                                 AMGALAN

                                                                      TUMUR ZAM

                                         BAYANGOL DISTRICT
          .
    iin R




                                                                                              Tu u l        Rive
                                                                                                                     r
   ang
  Nar




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0    0.5     1.0   1.5   2.0 KILOMETERS


                                                                                                                                                                                                        0          0.5      1.0 MILES
                                         YARMAG                    KHAN UUL DISTRICT
                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
N I S E K H
                                                                                                                                                                                              judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                              acceptance of such boundaries.


          Airport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARCH 2004
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 32972R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SECOND ULAANBAATAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION
                                                                                                                                                               DAMBADARJAA
             MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                            GER AREA



                                                                                                      CHINGELTEI
                                                                                                       GER AREA                                                                S U K H B A ATA R                                                            PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY PIPELINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED PUMP STATIONS
                                                                                                      KHAILAAST                                                                  DISTRICT                                                                   PROPOSED WATER RESERVOIRS
                                                                   BAYANKHOSHUU                         RES.
                                                                       NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                AREAS WITH KIOSKS
                                                                      GER AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING WATER RESERVOIRS




                                                                                                                                                  S e lb e
                                                                             BAYANKHOSHUU
                                                                                 NORTH                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING BOOSTER PUMP STATIONS
                                                                               UPPER RES.




                                                                                                                                                    R.
                                                                                                                                                                 DARI-EKH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KIOSK FOR TRUCK LOADING SERVICE
                                                                                                                                                                 GER AREA
                         SONGINO                                                                     CHINGELTEI                                                                                                                                             EXISTING WATER SUPPY PIPELINES

                                                                 BAYANKHOSHUU                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING WATER INSTALLATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                U li a st a i
                    K H AY R K H A N
                                             R.



                                                                     NORTH
                                                                                                      DISTRICT                                                 DARI-EKH P.S.
                                          To lg o it




                                                                   LOWER RES.                                                                                                                                                                               DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                          KHAILAAST                                 B AYA N Z U R K H
                         DISTRICT                                                                                                            P.S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R.
                                                            BAYANKHOSHUU                                                                                                                                                                                    ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHARKHAD RES.
                                                              NORTH P.S.
                                                             BAYANKHOSHUU
                                                                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT                                                            RAILROADS

                                                                 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                GER AREA                   NARAN
                                                                                         GER AREA               TASGAN                                                      NORTH EAST RES.                                                                 WELLS WITH NEW PUMPS
                                                                                      III, IV RES.                RES.


                                                                      WEST                                                      TASGAN
                                                                      RES.                                                        P.S.                             TOIROG P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHARKHAD P.S.                                    0    0.5     1.0   1.5   2.0 KILOMETERS

                                  TOLGOIT P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0          0.5     1.0 MILES
                                     GARAGE                    WEST
                                                               P.S.                                                                                                                                                                             ULIASTAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GER AREA




                                                       BAYANGOL DISTRICT


                                        MEAT SOURCE                                                                                                                                      CENTRAL SOURCE
                                        WELLFIELD WATER
WASTEWATER                               INSTALLATION                   INDUSTRIAL SOURCE                                                                                             WELLFIELD WATER INSTALLATION
 TREATMENT                                                        WELLFIELD WATER INSTALLATION
                     .
               iin R




                                                                                                                          Tu u l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZAVSAR RES.
   PLANT                                                                                                                                    Rive
                                                                                                                                                         r
              ang
             Nar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ppe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wa r S o u r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ter         c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I n s t e We
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       alla llfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tion ld

                                                                                KHAN UUL DISTRICT


                                                                                                                                                                                                    UPPER SOURCE
                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               WELLFIELD WATER
                         NISEKH                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                          INSTALLATION
                          RES.                                                         on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                       judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                       acceptance of such boundaries.
                    Airport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEPTEMBER 2012
