Document of
The World Bank FILE  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2629-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOE RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOANI
TG THE
BANK FOR AGRtCULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH IHE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
October 11, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei  4.47 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1. Be-
ginning in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representa-
tive of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AVICOLA      -      Poultry Central
BAFI         -      Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP          -      Agricultural Production Cooperative
ICA          -      Intercooperative Association
MAFI         -      Ministry for Agriculture and Food Industry
ROMAGRIMEX   -      Romanian Foreign Trade Company for Agriculture



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:       State enterprises and Cooperative complexes
Loan Amount:         US$85 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at, 7.95
percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    Relending to State enterprises at 2 percent per annum
during construction and 4 percent after construction.
Relending to cooperatives at 3 percent per annum. State
enterprise subloan maturities would be for up to 19
years and would take into consideration the capacity of
respective subprojects to repay from incremental income
generated therefrom. For cooperatives, subloan terms
would not exceed 15 years including three years of grace.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Prolect
Description:       Agricultural credit subprojects to be financed under the
proposed loan are expected to Include investments to be
undertaken in 1980-83 for 37 new broiler breeding farms,
modernization of 20 existing broiler production farms,
28 new mechanized broiler production farms, 15 new poultry
slaughterhouses, provision of specialized equ:Lpment for
quality control, applied research, disease control and
performance standards improvement and provision for infu-
sion of current pure line breeding stock with imported
pedigreed stock. The project would be the first signif-
icant step by the Government designed to contecibute to
fulfilling unsatisfied domestic demand for friesh meat
which has hitherto been suppressed due to the need to earn
scarce foreign exchange. Annual incremental poultry meat
production resulting from the project would reach 157,000
tons (liveweight) at full development in 1987. The
project is also expected to create about 9,000 new jobs.
The main risk confronting the project is that the pro-
jected efficiency improvement in the poultry industry
may not be attained unless the feed conversion ratio and
the managerial and technical quality of the local staff
improve as planned and sufficient specialized quality and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
health control equipment is provided. A technical assis-
tance component has been included in the project to
mitigate the risk. The other possible risk is a gradual
decline in quality of the breeding stock. Infusion of
the new pedigreed stock under the project is expected to
avoid this risk and improve the quality of the breeding
stock.
Cost Estimates:                                      Foreign                 %
Local      Exchange      Total      F.E.
---------------$ Million--------------
Slaughterhouses                          29.9           9.3       39.2       24
Broiler Production Units                 53.1          30.5       83.6       37
Broiler Modernization Units              23.2          18.5       41.7       44
Broiler Breeding Units                   85.4          31.2      116.6       27
Technical Assistance                       -            2.0        2.0      100
Physical Contingencies                    5.6           2.6        8.2       32
Price Contingencies                       5.0          15.1       20.1       75
Total                                   202.2         109.2      311.4       35
Cofinanciers    Sub-
Financing Plan:                      IBRD        and BAFI    Borrowers    Total
------------------$ Million---------------
Slaughterhouses                       8.5           33.9          -          42.4
Broiler Production Units             28.4           51.2        13.4         93.0
Broiler Modernization Units          16.8           15.3        13.7         45.8
Broiler Breeding Units               29.3           98.9          -         128.2
Technical Assistance                  2.0             -           -           2.0
Total                                85.0          199.3        27.1        311.4
Percentage of Total                  27.3           64.0         8.7        100.0
Estimated                                             $ Million
Disbursement:                   FY   1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Annual              0.9  19.6  29.7  18.4  11.2   5.2
Cumulative          0.9  20.5  50.2  68.6  79.8  85.0
Economic Rate of Return:       About 12 percent
Appraisal Report:              Number 2602-RO; dated September 24, 1979
EMENA Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA FOR A THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$85 million to
help finance a Third Livestock Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
Cofinancing of up to US$100 million is being sought, all from comrmercial
lending institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. As preparation for the produc-
tion of a Country Economic Memorandum, an economic mission visited Romania
during June 1979 to collect information on economic performance in 1978 and
to discuss the 1979 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates the mission's findings. Country social
and economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates :Ln the world.
The level and diversification of industrial production has increased rapidly,
providing the basis for the modernization and expansion of other economic
sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and national income.
With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the popu:Lation has
become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have increased substan-
tially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes but also because
of the provision through the state budget of expanded and improved education,
medical services, housing and social expenditures of other kinds. Further-
more, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed significantly as
the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        These changes represent the outcome of a development strategy
designed to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as
possible, with the level and structure of development in the developed coun-
tries. The main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and
increasing rates of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial
base; the development of local natural resources; the reorganizat:Lon and
modernization of agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production
and income; the expansion of foreign trade and international economic rela-
tions; and the development of human resources.
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles, which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources and obligatory development



-2 -
planning coordinated by the central party and government authorities. The
national plan, drawn up on a five-year time frame and elaborated each year
in an annual plan, sets out for the economy, by sector and branch and on a
regional basis, specific tasks for economic and social units. It is drawn
up through a combination of central directives and aggregation of individual
enterprise plans, any differences being reconciled through discussions between
the entities involved. Over the past decade, Romania has undertaken measures
to improve the planning and management system, to increase the responsibility
of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to orient the
economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the latest
changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumula-
tion 1/ had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The
sectoral allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority
of industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented
towards self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been
allocated to industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed
to the producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the
industrial sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the
producer goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1978
industry was the leading sector of the economy, accounting for 58 percent of
national income, and employing approximately 33 percent of the labor force
compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 64 percent of gross
industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand
for raw materials and energy.  Romania has concentrated on exploiting local
resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However, in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize on the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net
importer of many important items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has out-
paced the growth of domestic production. Having started to import oil in
1/   That is, net investment plus change in stocks.



-3-
1968, Romania became a net importer of energy in 1973 and in 1979 is expected
for the first time to import more crude oil than is produced domestically.
In response to those changing circumstances, the Government has recently
published an energy program for the period 1980-2000, proposing the develop-
ment of all energy resources and the restructuring of energy uze tc reduce
reliance on hydrocarbons. This program, and the reassessment of future
petrochemical development which is taking place within the context of the
preparation of the 1981-85 five-year plan, indicates the substantiaxl impact
upon the Romanian economy that the oil price increases and the curtailment of
oil production in Iran are having. It is not possible to quantify the impact
of the price increases upon Romania's import bill because we have no informa-
tion upon the contract prices; however, the impact was certainly exacerbated
by the curtailment of supplies from Iran (which supplied about 50 percent of
imported oil) and the need for Romania to purchase oil on the spot market in
the short-term while looking for new contracts.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 33 percent of the labor
force in 1978 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in national income to about 15 percent by 1978. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The rapid
growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The estimated average GNP growth of approximately 9 percent per annum
since 1950, calculated on the basis of official national income statistics,
implies a percentage growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum,
with GNP per capita reaching an estimated $1,750 in 1978, using the Bank Atlas
methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 10.6 percent in 1978 to an average of 2,011
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices



of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate ot 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an in-
crease in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the
economy. The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods
and raw materials, reaching $8.64 billion in 1978. Exports have also grown
rapidly, reaching a level of $8.06 billion in 1978, and the share of manufac-
tured goods in total exports has increased to 50 percent, reflecting the
progress of Romania's industrialization. Trade with LDCs and developed market
economies has also been increasing rapidly in response to policies of diver-
sifying sources of raw material supply and as a consequence of exports of more
manufactured goods. In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move
away from trade on a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral
payments, within the framework of the general trade cooperation agreements
signed with almost all of the country's trading partners. These agreements
also cover cooperation in production, technical assistance and economic
relations. In 1977 and 1978 the convertible balance of payments deteriorated,
however, reversing the trend of-the previous three years. After a surplus of
$76 million in 1976, the trade balance experienced a deficit of $81 million in
1977 as a result of additional imports made necessary by the earthquake, the
diversion of export goods to the domestic economy for reconstruction and
continued weak demand in the developed countries for some Romanian exports.
In 1978, the deficit increased to $560 million; to a large extent this was the
result of poor agricultural performance, but it also reflected shortfalls in
production in some industrial subsectors, continued weak demand in developed
market economies for some Romanian exports and the need for supplementary
imports of raw materials. With an increased deficit on the invisibles account
of $219 million compared with $192 million in 1977, there was a convertible
current account deficit of $779 million in 1978 compared with $273 million in
1977.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market economies
is still characterized by exports of natural resources and imports of capital
goods, although there has been a gradual increase in the share of exports in
the form of manufactured goods. Because of the present low level of reserves,
any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises from shortfalls in
agricultural output or a softening in prices, tends to place the import
program, largely sophisticated machinery and components and raw materials, in
immediate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The current Five-Year Plan covers the period 1976-80.  The high
rates and the pattern of growth planned for this period suggest that the
present decade has been viewed as the decisive period during which Romania
should overcome the major constraints on its transformation from a developing
country into a developed and technologically advanced country. There have



been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year Plan targets
during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets for standards
of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh Conference of
the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other areas of the
Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions were taken to
increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to participate in
sharing the profits of enterprises (see para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. How-
ever, the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added following a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves. While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will nevertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for retail trade and
services for the population have been increased.
17.       Although the most recently available figures published by the Gov-
ernment indicate that the economy is expected to fulfill, more or less, the
five-year plan targets, very high rates of growth of the major economic
indicators will be required in 1979 and 1980 to make up for the relatively
disappointing performance in 1977 and 1978. In March 1977, the economy was
dealt a serious blow when a violent earthquake occurred in the east of the
country, causing damage valued at $2 billion and leading to a detrimental
effect upon the balance of payments totalling $630 million during 1977 and
1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets. While these efforts enabled the economy to continue
its growth, 1977 plan targets were only partially fulfilled. National income
increased by 8.6 percent compared to a plan target of 11.3 percent: and an
increase in the previous year of 10.5 percent. Economic performance in 1978
also fell below plan, although the economy continued to grow at a relatively
rapid rate. National income increased by 7.6 percent, compared wLth the



-6-
annual plan target of 11-11.5 percent. Gross industrial production increased
by 9.0 percent rather than the planned 10.6 percent, and there are sizable
shortfalls in the production of several major products, particularly oil,
coal, chemicals and food products. Gross agricultural production increased by
only 2.4 percent compared with a plan target of 6.9-16.1 percent growth and
most of the growth was in the livestock subsector. Arable output fell far
below plan targets, partly because of climatic difficulties but also as a
result of managerial weaknesses and shortages of inputs. The shortfalls not
only affected the production of industries using agricultural raw materials
but also resulted in lower exports than planned. Investment, on the other
hand, increased almost as quickly as planned, 16.2 percent compared with a
plan target of 16.8 percent; however, in absolute terms, it did not make up
the shortfall brought about by earthquake, despite the considerable physical
and human resources introduced into the construction sector. The transfer of
labor from agriculture to the non-agricultural sector increased faster than
planned, and, indeed, the economy, as in previous years, showed relatively
greater ability to create new production than to use existing resources more
efficiently; the targets for increased labor productivity and reduced material
expenditures could not be attained. While production targets were generally
underfulfilled, consumption rose more or less as planned. Average monthly
wages rose by 10.6 percent and real incomes of the population by 8.9 percent,
one percent more than planned.
19.        The Annual Plan for 1979 signals no significant deviation from the
previous path. The growth rates published in the plan - 8.8 percent for
national income, 11.5 percent for net industrial production (in keeping with
the new economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net
rather than gross terms), 5.1-5.6 percent for gross agricultural production,
16.6 percent for foreign trade, 9.1 percent for investment and 7.5 percent
for real incomes - do not, however, fully reflect the high rates of growth
expected by the Government during the current year. Early in 1979, the Gov-
ernment announced that the shortfalls in production from 1978 should be made
up in the last two years of the plan period, so that the economy may attain
its 1980 plan levels. Thus, for the major indicators the real growth rates
must be considerably higher than those included in the annual plan.
20.        In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future, enterprises are also to retain a higher
proportion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural
expenditures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan prep-
aration, be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer
correlation between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more
direct responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. The
measures are still under detailed discussion, with further refinements being



-7 -.
considered, although the major changes in planning, net output targets,
profit-sharing and enterprises' financial responsibilities were introduced
as of January 1, 1979. In early 1979, the Government announced thalt the
measures for net output and profit-sharing would be extended to cooperative
agriculture. In a complementary vein, the creation was also announced of
approximately 700 Agro-industrial Councils which will coordinate the develop-
ment of agriculture within a given geographical area and provide a forum for
determining the most efficient use of resources in the sector (see para. 42).
All these measures are designed to make the existing management and planning
system operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. How-
ever, they are a_step in the direction that the basic economic report sug-
gested was desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore,
they will set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which
may lead to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings. In 1978, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term loans
totalled $1,216 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial credits
with .relatively short repayment periods. Gross disbursements of convertible
medium and long-term loans during the year were $1,167 million. This repre-
sented a net inflow of $585 million after accounting for the country's repay-
ment obligations. There was also a net inflow of $456 million on s'hort-term
during 1978. After almost a decade of gradually reducing the size of out-
standing short-term debt, the Government was compelled in 1977 to reverse
temporarily its policy of reducing reliance on short-term debt, because of
the additional financing needs generated by the earthquake. This action had
to be continued in 1978 because of the size of the current account deficit,
which could not be covered by medium and long-term sources, despite Romania's
increased involvement in the Eurocurrency market.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, ten joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only $10-15 million, the seventh agreement, signed in
early 1977 with Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about $500
million) and will lead to a total capital inflow of aproximately $250 million.
The eighth agreement is for a joint production company with British Aircraft
for the manufacture of commercial aircraft; the ninth is with Data-products
Corporation, USA, for the manufacture of computer software; and the tenth is a
joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya. However, negotiations have
been broken off by Romania and Kuwait for the construction of a petro-chemical
complex which would have cost $1.25 billion and involved a capital inflow of
about $500 million. Many other joint ventures are at various stages of nego-
tiation.



- 8 -
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first iast turopean
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving $80 million for the expansion
of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a $100 mil-
lion, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agreement
and also a $420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms.  However, it is
in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most progress in
improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial sums at
good and improving terms.  During 1977, it negotiated two Eurodollar loans
totalling $125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated a further $100
million on the Eurocurrency market and late in the year, a further borrowing
of $300 million. The terms for the latter, an eight-year loan with four-
years' grace, are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and
0.750 percent for the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure
long-term energy supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with
Occidental Petroleum for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking con-
sortium raised a $53 million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participa-
tion in the Island Creek coal mine in West Virginia. In March 1979, Romania
secured a loan of $320 million from a consortium led by Canadian banks to
supplement a $650 million loan by the Export Development Corporation of Canada
for the purchase of heavy-water reactors for the first nuclear power project
in Romania. Finally, Romania has access to non-convertible currency invest-
ment credits from the International Investment Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted as shown by the fact that, in 1977-1978,
in spite of the above developments, short-term borrowing has been necessary.
The IBRD remains the major source of long-term development finance, although
Romania is making efforts to improve its access to financial markets. The
Bank's presence on a significant scale, and its effort to associate Bank
financed projects with co-financing through supplier or financial credits,
has a positive influence in this regard and serves to build outside confidence
in the country, thereby improving in the long-term Romania's independent
access to the world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.



- 9 -
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards during the next five-year plan period, although the latest figures
published by the Government do indicate considerably slower growth between
1980 and 1985 than originally intended. The draft plan Directives published
in July indicate an annual growth of national income of 6.7-7.4 percent com-
pared with 8.6-9.5 percent in the guidelines for the plan published at the
end of 1977. Targets for industry, investment and standards of liviLng have
been reduced correspondingly. The Government plans to achieve its targets by
emphasizing, first, the utilization of the country's own resources and a large
local investment effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and
natural resources. However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets
and its long term plans for creating a competitive industrial economay, it will
have to attract foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support
its development efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of December 31, 1978, Romania's total medium and long-iterm
external debt amounted to $5,357 million. Most of these debts ($5,254 mil-
lion) were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries
being the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (1JK) and
Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the
volume and growth of external trade, average maturities are relatively short
and convertible debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of
$1,081 and $1,035 million a year in 1979 and 1980 respectively. The con-
vertible medium and long-term debt service ratio was 18 percent in 1978 and
is expected to be 19 percent in 1979.
29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from $830 million in 1971 to $4,072 million
(not counting $387 million in non-factor services) in 1978. The preferential
trade status accorded to Romania by the European Community in June 1973 is
facilitating the expansion of exports, as is the granting of most favored



- 10 -
nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government has restricted
the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an effort to improve
the structure of the country's external debt, but in view of the earthquake's
impact upon the balance of payments and the trade performance in 1978, short-
term debt increased again in 1977 and 1978. Assuming a continuation of present
export and debt management policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio
in 1980 will be about 20 percent after which it will remain fairly stable.
The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of both its domestic
growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for continued development
all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank
lending.
30.       With the exception of certain Swedish claims, all pre-war foreign
debts of the country had been settled. The Swedish claims concern public
loans from the prewar period, nationalized Swedish property and other in-
terests, such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second
World War. The eleventh meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was
held in Bucharest in October 1976 and further discussions were planned at a
date to be established through diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable
to obtain a consistent picture from the two Governments of the present status
of this matter and has, therefore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities
to clarify their respective positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,262.8 million for twenty-three loans in agriculture, industry and power.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of August 31, 1979.
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending
continues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange
by providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has been assisting the
Government by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The
Bank has helped to attract foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million
cofinancing for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75
million was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1979. Through their
contacts with commercial banks with assistance from the Bank, and subsequent
negotiations with those banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced
of the positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and
have indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future proj-
ects. Bank lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to
introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and
production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary
electric power development. Market aspects and marketing, especially for



- 11 -
export goods, are also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture
which is heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where productivity
levels are still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for projects for horticulture, irrigation, industry, power, and a fourth
livestock project. A Bank loan for a major navigation canal linking the
Danube and Black Sea is also being processed. The Government has also pro-
posed that the Bank consider lending for an integrated road and rail transport
project.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
analysis methodologies in various sectors, including industry and transporta-
tion, for 165 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually
since 1975 in collaboration with an academic institution in Romania. Addi-
tional courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses
are becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected to beginL to supple-
ment the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources. The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Agriculture
36.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing both convertible foreign exchange earnings and industrial raw
materials which contribute to progress in other sectors, especially in indus-
try. In 1978, agriculture accounted for 16 percent of national income and 33
percent of the labor force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). About 14.49
million hectares, or almost two-thirds of the land area, are used for agricul-
ture. Of this area, 65 percent is arable, 20 percent is under pasture and the
remaining 15 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. About 8.5 million
hectares of all agricultural land is in Wallachia, the region composed of the
southern plains in the Danube valley. Approximately 64 percent of all arable
land is used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat), while industrial
crops (mainly sunflower and sugar beet) are the next most important. Vege-
tables are also produced for domestic consumption and export, predominantly
by private farmers and individual members of cooperatives, but also often in



- 12 -
large-scale commercial greenhouses operated by State farms and cooperatives.
Livestock accounted for a relatively high 44 percent of agricultural produc-
tion in 1978.
37.       The major problems of Romanian agriculture are the instability of
its output and low productivity. Growth achieved in agricultural production
has been slower than in other sectors and has been characterized by year-to-
year variations. Investment in agriculture accounted for 12.7 percent of
actual total investment in the 1966-70 plan period and 14.1 percent in the
1971-75 plan period. Investment in agriculture in the 1976-80 plan period
is expected to be 116 billion lei ($6.4 billion), about 12 percent of total
investment and about 50 percent more than during 1971-75 plan period. In-
cluded in these plans are major programs of irrigation investment to address
the problems faced by agriculture, in particular, the problem of the instab-
ility of production. In addition to investment, the Government has also
taken other measures, including institutional reforms and price incentives,
to stimulate agricultural production. It has also taken a number of other
specific measures to increase agricultural productivity including increases in
the supply and utilization of fertilizers, investments in livestock production
and the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and
marketing facilities. The Bank has also identified production instability and
low productivity as the two major problems in the Romanian agricultural sector
as stated in the Agricultural Sector Survey (No. 953a-RO) and the recent basic
economic report (No. 1601-RO). Through the process of preparing these docu-
ments and the Bank financed projects, the Bank has maintained a close dialogue
with the Government and contributed to improving the design of agricultural
development projects. The Bank has assisted the Government efforts in the
sector by providing nine loans for agriculture totalling $516.5 million since
1975 when the first Bank loan for agriculture was made to Romania.
Agricultural Productivity
38.       In addition to improving its irrigation infrastructure, Romania is
also taking measures to improve productivity through upgrading the quality of
farm mechanization, increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers,
and the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and
marketing outlets for increased farm production. Steps are also being taken
to reduce inequality between State farms and cooperatives in access to farm
inputs. State farms, which own 30 percent and cultivate 14 percent of agri-
cultural land, received about 42 percent of on-farm investment in the 1971-75
Plan period. Productivity on State farms is correspondingly higher than that
of cooperatives, but the Government is now moving toward elimination of the
disparities between the two types of farm organizations in order to stimulate
general improvement in agricultural productivity. The recent announcement by
the Government, establishing Agro-Industrial Councils (AIC), is another step
towards eliminating such discrepancies (see para. 42). The development of
large-scale livestock complexes incorporating significant scale economies and
the best managerial staff is contributing to the improvement in productivity.



- 13 -
Sector Organization
39.       State agricultural units and cooperatives account for the major
portion of agricultural production; individual farmers play a much less
significant role, except in the production of a few selected commodities.
The current sector organization is primarily a result of collectivization
and increased government participation from 1949 to 1962, when small-scale,
peasant-oriented agriculture was replaced by large, State-owned or State-
controlled production units. The dominant form of State-owned agricultural
unit is the State enterprise. There are 392 such State farms averaging
about 5,300 hectares and about 650 workers each. These large scale, capital
intensive farms have been considered a pilot sector in Romania and, as such,
have been favored in terms of land allocation, fertilizer distribution and
investments in irrigation and mechanization. About 2.1 million hectares of
agricultural land are cultivated by these farms, which also own substantial
grazing and pasture lands. Workers on the farms are employed on salaries
which are fixed by law but vary according to skill levels. The State farms
are generally well managed by directors (usually agricultural engineers) who
are appointed by the Director General for State Farms of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and are responsible to workers' councils. The Ministry of Agriculture
determines the production plans for individual State farms; it also has a role
in determining the use of their 'net income, a portion of which is remitted to
the State treasury.
40.       There are about 4,400 agricultural production cooperatives with
about 3.4 million member families and cultivating about 9.0 milliort hectares.
Workers in cooperatives are entitled to a minimum salary, which is about 20
percent lower than the salaries of their counterparts on State farms. Sala-
ries of cooperators may be supplemented by the cooperator s shares of pro-
fits in excess of plan targets, a bonus programmed to be about 2 percent of
the planned benefits. More than one member of a family frequently works (on
a full- or part-time basis) in the cooperative, and some family members are
employed outside of the cooperatives. Cooperators are also allowecd to farm
about 0.15 hectares each in and around their villages for their personal use,
and they are allowed to own livestock. Production on personal plots is always
intensive, and produce is either self-consumed or sold to consumpt:Lon coopera-
tives to supplement other income of the cooperators. A cooperative is managed
by a General Assembly of cooperators and its elected President; it reports to
the District Director General for Agriculture, the local representative of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Some cooperatives have begun to pool their resources
for large-scale investments in agroindustries and livestock production. These
intercooperative associations (ICA) are operated by State employees paid from
ICA revenues. Part of the net income from ICA sales is retained for further
ICA development; the balance is divided among member cooperatives in propor-
tion to their contribution to shares in the ICA.
41.       Individual producers number only about 150,000 families and own
about 10 percent of total agricultural land. Their lands are often located
in mountainous regions, and include 19 percent of pasture lands and 21 per-
cent of orchards. Individual producers own 16 percent of all cattle, 14 per-
cent of sheep, and 6 percent of pigs. The individual farming subsector has



- 14 -
not received strong government support but is significant in production of
potatoes (16 percent of production), meat (13 percent), milk (20 percent),
eggs (14 percent), wool (12 percent) and poultry (56 percent).
42.       The Government has recently announced that integrated organizations
known as Agro-Industrial Councils (AIC) will be established, each of which
will consist of several State or cooperative farms and one State mechanization
unit which is responsible for supplying agricultural machinery to these farms
when required. There will be about 700 AICs to cover the whole country, each
of which will hold on average about 200,000 ha of agricultural land. The
Council will be responsible for the overall production plan, allocation of
inputs, mechanization and marketing. Although each State and cooperative farm
will maintain its budgetary autonomy, decisions on cropping patterns will be
made at the Council level, in which directors of the member CAPs, IASs and
SMAs will be represented. Implementation of the proposed Councils is cur-
rently underway, and it is too early to assess the effectiveness of such
Councils in meeting the intended objectives. However, agricultural produc-
tivity in the cooperative sector is expected to be improved as a result of
forming the proposed Councils by making available to the cooperative sector
the underutilized resources tied up in the IAS such as technical expertise,
machinery, and generally better management skills.
43.       At the national level, the State institution in the agricultural
sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. It plays a major
role in preparing the Five-Year Plan for the sector and is the supervisory
institution for plan implementation. In each district, the Ministry is
represented by a general directorate, which is responsible for all agricul-
tural activity in the district including both cooperatives and State farms.
Marketing is organized nationally under 13 centrals accountable to the
Ministry and responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities.
Each central obtains produce at the district level and allocates it among
domestic retail, processing, storage and export channels. A foreign trade
company is responsible for the exports of each central.
Agricultural Investment Financing
44.       The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Govern-
ment's specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation
and food processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans
in support of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan.
BAFI was established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all
investment funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector.
Financing in agriculture had previously been done by a department of the
National Bank of Romania. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal,
execution and supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff
located in Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-
branches throughout the country. One of BAFI's more important functions is
that of fiscal agent administering for the account of the national budget
all government investment in State farms and enterprises. BAFI also receives
interest free funds from the State budget for investment lending to coopera-
tives (and in some cases State farms) and repays the Government as it receives



- 15 -
repayments of the sub-loans. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures
for all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural
investments for more than lei 10,000,000 ($560,000) are reviewed and approved
by the Ministry of Agriculture and those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($3.9
million) must be approved by the Council of Ministers. BAFI aiso provides
short-term credit to, and maintains settlement accounts for, all cooperative
and State agricultural enterprises; it also acts as fiscal agent for the Gov-
ernment for collection of State revenues from these enterprises. As the
Government's channel for investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary
source of funds is the State Budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore in-
cludes a provision that the Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds for
the implementation and operation of the project (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02). The Guarantor will ensure that BAFI can meet the debt service on the
Bank loan (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.01).
The Livestock Subsector
45.       Livestock accounted for 44 percent of gross agricultural production
in 1978, and its contribution to overall agricultural production has been
increasing relatively more rapidly than crop production with a 5.8 percent
average annual growth for 1965-75, compared with about 3 percent petr annum for
crops.  The livestock population at the beginning of 1977 consisted of 6.3
million cattle, 10.2 million pigs, 14.5 million sheep and about 90 million
poultry. Nearly 10 million hectares, or about two-thirds of all agricultural
land, are used for livestock production. Of these, about 4.5 million hectares
are pasture and meadow lands, not suitable for cultivation, which are used for
grazing, about 1.6 million hectares are used for fodder crops, and about 3.8
million hectares for feedgrains. Other important crops such as wheat, barley,
soy beans, sunflower and sugarbeets provide by-products used for feeding
livestock. In general the performance of the subsector is satisfactory,
appropriate technologies are available and technical production coefficients
are adequate.
46.       Per capita meat consumption in Romania is about 30 and 25 percent
below the average per capita consumption in the EEC and Eastern European coun-
tries respectively. The Government has decided to make efforts to meet the
unsatisfied consumer demand for fresh meat, particularly poultry meat, as part
of its efforts to give increased attention to consumer issues (FAO estimates
for Romania show a considerably higher income elasticity for poultry meat than
for other types of meat), and has launched a major poultry expansion program
during 1978-83. During this period, it is expected that investments in State
and cooperative poultry enterprises for modernization and expansion of new
facilities will absorb on average about 20 percent of total resource alloca-
tion for the livestock subsector. Through these investments it is planned
that an average net growth rate of 6 percent would be attained in poultry meat
production for the next five years. Meat is allocated, through the central
planning process, between domestic and export markets. In the past, domestic
consumption of fresh meat has been deliberately suppressed due to the priority
the Government has given to earning much needed scarce foreign exchange. This
is evidenced by the recent Second Livestock Project (Loan 1669-RO) which has a
heavy emphasis on exports. The proposed project would be the first step by



- 16 -
the Government directed solely at improving the level of meat consumption in
the hitherto suppressed domestic market. Total meat consumption in Romania
is expected to increase from 47 kilograms in 1975 to 61 kilograms per capita
in 1980; and by 1985 could increase to 73 kilograms per capita or about 1O
percent less than the average for EEC in 1975. The share of poultry in per
capita meat consumption is projected to increase from 21 percent in 1978 to 23
percent in 1980 and to 25 percent in 1985. Without the project, either meat
consumption would remain low or exports of beef and/or pork would be foregone
if the Government was to pursue its objective of improving the availability of
meat for domestic consumption. The poultry industry also has considerable
scope for technical improvements including introduction of the mechanized cage
system as proposed under the project in lieu of the deep litter floor system
which is the most commonly used at present. Improvement in managerial skills
to deal with the new technology is also required together with improvements
in the feed conversion rate which, in the absence of adequate availability of
protein supplies, currently stands among the poorest in the world for poultry
operation. There is also a scope for improvement of breeds. The Government
is fully aware of these problems and, in order to resolve them, has requested
the Bank's assistance for the first time in the poultry subsector. After a
careful review of the subsector and the proposed project in collaboration with
the Government, the Bank is in agreement with the Romanian view that priority
should be given to extending the new poultry production technology, improving
managerial skills and the feed conversion ratio, and the infusion of pedigreed
stock through a Bank-financed project. The Bank also agrees with the Govern-
ment's efforts to respond to consumer needs, to increase per capita meat
consumption, particularly of poultry meat, and to arrange cofinancing from
commercial banks.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Project
47.       A poultry project based on the new mechanized cage system technology
was first proposed to the Bank for financing in July 1977. After a prelim-
inary review of this project, the Bank concluded that since there was only
limited operational experience with the new technology, an additional year of
operating experience and a comparative analysis of the mechanized cage system
with the conventional deep litter system were needed before proceeding further.
In September 1978, a Bank mission which included a technical expert on poultry
visited Romania and on the basis of additional operating experience gained
and the comparative advantage of the cage system over the conventional system
that had been established, concluded that the proposed poultry project was
technically acceptable. A preparation report was submitted to the Bank in
February 1979 and the project was appraised in March and April 1979. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in September 1979. The Romanian delegation was
headed by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI, and included representatives
from Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry and BAFI. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report Livestock III Project" (No. 2602-RO) dated September 24,
1979, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.



- 17 -
Project Description
48.       The project represents a four year (1980-1983) time slice of the
poultry production and processing portion of the Romanian National Develop-
ment Program and the 1976-80 Supplementary Program (see Map). It would be
a major contribution toward realizing the planned increase in poultry meat
production required to fulfill domestic demand, making each district (judet)
self-sufficient in poultry products. A small percentage of project output
could be exported after meeting the domestic demand. It has the important
additional features of introducing a new, technically advantageous m,echanized
cage system with a technical assistance program attached to it, and substan-
tial co-financing with foreign commercial banks. The inclusion of these
features is significant in our work with Romania in that it was initiated by
the Romanians despite the relatively innovative nature of the features. The
project would also contribute to increasing labor and poultry productivity.
The major project objectives include (a) expansion of broiler production
units utilizing the mechanized cage system to achieve managerial and tech-
nical improvements, (b) breeding of high quality parent stock for production
of chicks, (c) provision of modern sanitary poultry slaughterhouses, and (d)
provision of laboratory equipment and new pedigreed stock for infusi.on into
Romanian pure lines both of which are essential to the successful expansion
of broiler production and to improve health and performance standards.
49.       The project provides for the construction of (a) 37 broiler breeding
farms each with an average annual capacity to produce 6.6 million broiler
chicks to be sold when they are one day old, (b) 28 mechanized broiLer produc-
tion farms each with an average annual capacity of 4,100 tons and (c) 15
poultry slaughterhouses each with an average kill rate of 1,000 chickens per
hour. Also included would be (d) the modernization of 20 existing lbroiler
production farms, (e) provisions for procurement of specialized equipment to
be used in quality control, disease isolation and control, and performance
standards improvement; (f) provision for infusion of current pure line breed-
ing stock with imported pedigreed stock; and (g) training of technical staff
in use of specialized laboratory equipment. Construction is expected to be
completed by the end of 1984 and full production reached by the beginning of
1987. It has been found that the current feed conversion ratios (2.5 kg of
feed for 1 kg of meat gain) is one of the poorest conversion ratios in the
world which is primarily attributed to the quality of feed ration. Under the
project, the Government would take necessary measures to improve the feed
conversion ratio to 2.3 kg of feed for 1 kg of meat gain when the broiler
growing facilities included in the project will start or resume their opera-
tions (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(ii)).
Project Execution and Operation
50.       The project would be carried out by cooperatives and State enter-
prises under agricultural credit subprojects administered by BAFI, and BAFI's
branch offices would be responsible for direct supervision of the implementa-
tion of subprojects. BAFI maintains detailed records of borrowers' financial
and production results relative to subproject appraisal expectations, and
would submit to the Bank quarterly reports (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).



- 18 -
Since necessary information would be available from BAFI's branch offices,
the incremental cost of monitoring project implementation would be negligible.
All subprojects estimated to cost $3.9 million equivalent or more, and other
representative subprojects, would be subject to Bank review before disburse-
ments would be made on account of such subprojects (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para 3(d)). Technical assistance to the cooperatives and state enterprises
carrying out subprojects would be provided by AVICOLA and other specialized
units of the Ministry for Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) under a well-
developed program of assistance to such entities. MAFI would have responsi-
bility for all necessary arrangements for international procurement. With the
growing complexity of poultry breeding and quality control under the proposed
project, feeding systems, ration formulae, disease control and technical and
managerial capacity must also improve. For this purpose, the timely receipt
of specialized laboratory equipment and imported pedigreed breeding stock and
training of staff will be secured under a detailed technical assistance pro-
gram including training of staff, equipment requirement and pedigreed stock
purchases by year for the period between 1980 and 1983 under the technical
assistance component of the project which will be carried out by MAFI.
Market Outlook
51.       The analysis of the market and of the demand and supply pattern
indicates that no marketing problems need be expected. The incremental pro-
duction under the project will mostly supply the domestic market, and small
export volumes are anticipated, which will represent an insignificant propor-
tion of total international poultry meat exports. Incremental consumption of
poultry meat by 1985 over the 1978 level is projected approximately at 243,000
tons on liveweight basis, of which about 157,000 tons or 65 percent would be
provided by the project. It is anticipated that up to about 3 percent of the
total production could be exported. In the past, the Government emphasis on
exports of meat has resulted in the severe shortage of fresh meat in the
domestic market. This is evidenced by the fact that the prices for fresh
pigmeat and poultry meat in the private markets have generally averaged about
50 percent and 25 percent higher respectively than the official producer
prices. The proposed project is the first significant step by the Government
to improve the level of meat consumption in Romania. Production allocated to
the domestic market will assist Romania in meeting its targeted increases in
per capita consumption which currently is below comparable countries and well
short of desired consumption.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The estimated total cost of the project is $311.4 million including
$0.4 million duties and taxes, with an estimated foreign exchange component of
$109.2 million. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work under the
Romanian system of administered prices. The cost of equipment and materials
which are likely to be procured from foreign suppliers, has been estimated on
the basis of the international prices prevailing in 1979. Physical contingen-
cies have been provided at an average of 5.0 percent which will be adequate
because the proposed project is in a well developed industry with proven
design standards. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on



- 19 -
an annual increase of 6.0 percent for 1980-84.  Due to near zero infLation
under the Romanian system of administered prices, annual price contingencies
of one percent on local costs are included.
53.       The proposed Bank loan of $85 million would finance 78 percent of
the foreign exchange costs. The balance of the project cost would be financed
by a loan from a syndicate of foreign private commercial banks 1/ ($100 mil-
lion), sub-borrowers' contributions ($27.0 million), and the remainder as
loans from BAFI ($119.4 million). The Government of Romania would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The proposed loan would be made to BAFI with the
guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania, and would be for a term of
15 years, including 3 years grace, at an interest rate of 7.95 percent per
annum. BAFI would onlend these funds, together with its own funds, for terms
of up to 15 years to cooperatives at 3 percent per annum and for terms of up
to 19 years to State enterprises at 2 percent per annum during the construc-
tion period and 4 percent thereafter. As in earlier projects, these rates
result in a positive spread over BAFI's financial and administrative costs in
providing the loans. As a result of Government controls on domestic prices,
Romania maintains a domestic inflation rate of around one percent per annum,
and no significant further increase is expected in the future. Thus BAFI
loans under the project would be made at positive real interest rates, on the
same terms and conditions as are extended to other borrowers in the agricul-
tural sector.
Audit
54.       BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors from
the Ministry of Finance and to an annual audit by inspectors from the Court of
Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of Ministers and the
President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its transactions are
satisfactory and BAFI's audited overall and project operating and financing
results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
BAFI's fiscal year.
Procurement
55.       In Romania all civil works are constructed by the Romanian State-
owned construction enterprises which are experienced and familiar with local
conditions, methods and regulations. Installations similar to those proposed
under the project have in the past generally proved well designed and con-
structed. An agreed list of items estimated to cost $83 million would be
procured by Romagrimex (Romanian Foreign Trade Company for Agriculture) under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. These
items include concrete reinforcing steel ($8.76 million), structuraL steel
1/   Initial contacts by BAFI and the Bank have revealed considerable interest
among foreign commercial banks in cofinancing this proposed project.
BAFI is following up capital market trends through these contacts, and no
problem is expected in arranging cofinancing for the project.



- 20 -
($6.34 million), steel pipes ($2.81 million), electric cables ($9.90 million),
steel sheets ($2.73 million), asbestos sheets ($2.20 million), slaughterhouse
and meat processing equipment ($50.26 million). Laboratory equipment, bio-
logical products and pedigreed breeding costing $2.0 million would be procured
under prudent international shopping. Cost estimates are based on the conver-
sion rate of $1 = lei 18. Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a 15 per-
cent preference margin, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
Romanian manufacturers are highly competitive and it is anticipated that
foreign suppliers would be awarded contracts for about $3.8 million mainly
for slaughterhouse and specialized laboratory equipment not manufactured in
Romania.
Disbursement
56.       The Bank loan would be disbursed at the rate of 30 percent of the
amounts disbursed by BAFI for approved subprojects for construction of breed-
ing units, slaughterhouses and new broiler production units and modernization
of broiler production units, and 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures
for goods and services for applied research in poultry breeding and disease
control. Disbursement for BAFI approved subprojects will be made against
certificate of expenditure. Prior approval by the Bank would be required for
subprojects costing more than le-i 70 million and also subprojects representa-
tive of categories of subprojects costing less than lei 70 million, on the
basis of technical and economic analysis of these subprojects made by BAFI
according to the methodology agreeable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para 3(d)).
Environment
57.       Romania maintains a comprehensive system of standards and controls
to ensure satisfactory waste disposal and waste water treatment. Facilities
financed under the project would be constructed and operated in conformity
with this environmental protection code. In the manure disposal system, solid
materials from the mechanized broiler production units would be collected and
sold to livestock fattening farms or to local farms for use as fertilizer.
Since breeding units use the deep litter system, manure collects into litter
(chopped straw, ground corn cobs or sunflower hulls) until the end of the
growing cycle when the litter is removed and sold either for livestock feed or
to local farms for use as soil conditioner-fertilizer. Slaughterhouse waste
(feather, inedible offal, feet, blood and heads) is collected and processed
into meat and feather meal.
Benefits
58.       The proposed project represents a major undertaking by the Govern-
ment to satisfy the growing local demand for hitherto severely undersupplied
poultry meat. At full development of the proposed project, annual chicken
meat output would increase by 157,000 tons liveweight of poultry meat and
about 124 million day old chicks/hatching eggs. It is expected that per
capita poultry meat consumption in Romania will increase from 11 kg in 1978
to about 18 kg in 1985. Without the project, however, the choices facing



- 21 -
Romania are either to continue sacrificing local demand and maintain the
present low level of meat consumption (or reduce it with rising population),
or to continue the Government's policy commitment to improve the availability
of meat for domestic consumption by foregoing exports of beef and/or pork.
Both options wuald be unacceptable to Government. Government therefDre
assigns this project a high priority in its development plans. Furt'hermore,
the technical assistance component has made provisions for purchases of
laboratory equipmemt to be used in strengthening the adaptive research capab-
ility of the poultry central (AVICOLA). In addition, new pedigreed stock
would be procured for infusions into the Romanian pure lines to improve their
performance. Additional employment in slaughtering plants, breeding and
production farms financed under the project would create about 9,000 jobs.
The economic rate of return to the project is estimated at about 12 percent.
The analysis is based on the assumption that (a) the output from the project
is considered as import substitute hence valued at import parity price; and
(b) tradeable feed inputs are also valued at border prices either export or
import parity. Furthermore, the 12 percent rate of return is based on the
import parity price of poultry meat at the lower end of the sample price range
of internationally traded poultry meat and it does not take into consideration
the impact of a potential new large importer in the market if Romania were
to import rather than produce poultry meat. The most critical coeff'icients
determining the efficiency of poultry enterprises are the feed conversion
ratio, broiler yield and the price of chicken meat. Assuming that only the
present level of feed conversion efficiency (2.5 kg of feed to 1 kg of meat
gain) is attained under the project, the economic rate of return would be 9
percent. It is possible that the feed conversion ratio under the project
could be better than the 2.3:1 figure since the breeding stock already reared
by Romanian producers has the genetic capability. With improvements in feed
rations and management, the economic rate of return could increase Ito about
15 percent. The financial rates of return to the various components range
from 5 percent for the broiler breeding units to 20 percent for the broiler
modernization units, which are satisfactory in Romanian contexts. The admin-
istered price system in Romania, based as it is on domestic costs of produc-
tion, ensures that the enterprise is free of risks from price fluctuations.
Risks
59.       Possible risks confronting the project relate to production effi-
ciency and quality of breeding stock. The sensitivity analysis revealed that
feed conversion and broiler yield are critical coefficients determining the
acceptability of the project. As one of the primary objectives of the project
is to improve the efficiency of the poultry industry in general, through the
gradual adoption of better feed, it is essential that the current feed composi-
tion be revised. The Government would be required to alter the current feed
quality (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(ii)). Coupled with availability of
well balanced feed, the presence of well trained and experienced technical
staff is indispensable for optimum utilization of all inputs. Experienced
staff is necessary to be able to identify emerging disease problemsi. To
safeguard against such risks, MAFI's training program would be supplemented
by short-term specialized training. The program would be financed under the
proposed technical assistance component. The other possible risk is the



- 22 -
gradual declining quality of the existing breeding stock adopted a decade ago.
The project, however, has made provisions for AVICOLA to continue its research
program to introduce specific traits of high disease resistance, better feed
conversion, better bone structure and higher yields. Moreover, it is envis-
aged that new pedigreed stock would continue to be infused in Romanian pure
lines. In the most unlikely event that feed costs increase and chicken meat
prices fall, the project would be unacceptable. Such a combination of cost
and price behavior can almost be ruled out. Past trends indicate that the
most likely outcome is a parallel movement of chicken meat prices and feed
costs. Furthermore the ratios of chicken meat price to feed cost over the
past decade have remained nearly constant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agricul-
ture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 11, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pag,:s
TABLE 3A
ROANIlA - SOCTAI. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFEREINCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSANI_  StH                     ROt1ANIA                         - HOST RECENT ESTIMATF) -
TOTAt            237.5                                                     SAM E       SAME      NEXT HICHER
AGRICULTURAL     149.6                                  HOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION lc   CROUP ld    GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  190.0        530.0    1580.0           2154.0     1748.5       2754.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
ILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0           3013.0    4036.0           2033.2      1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAtIN  MID-Yt:AR (MILLIONS)      18.4         20.2      21.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.7          40.8      44,0             56.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POFULATION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. I2.                        77.0        85.0       91.0            81.5        28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0        135.0      144.0           138.8       100.5        91.3
POPULATION ArG STRUCTIURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          28.2        25.9       26.0            25.6        35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                          6S.1        65.5       65.0            62.9        56.3        57.5
65 YRS. A!.D ABOVE                   6.7         8.6        9.0             10.2        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2          1.0       0.9             0.9         1.7         2.1
URBAN                               3.8         2.8        2.5             2.6         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.0        20.0       19.0             18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0          9.0       9.0              9.2        9.2         8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2          1.3       1.2              1.2        1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCFPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODOCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.6        89.0      140.0           115.7       102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCE!.T OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   105.0       118.0      123.0/g         134.2       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRJ1IS PER DAY)          81.0        92.0       96.7/g          95.'.       80.9        70.3
OF WHTCH ANIM!L AND PULSE        24.0        28.0         ..            45.4        31.3
CHILD (AGtS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       3.0         2.4        1.0              1.3        5.1         2.5
hEALTH
LIFE EYPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.0         69.0       70.0            70.0        65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.7        49.4       31.0            31.5        45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       69.4        73.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..               ..       85.1        94.6
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..               ..       70.1
URRAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..        88.3
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..               ..       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            780.0/f     840.0/1i  750.0            661.6      1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       620.0P          ..     590.0           677.1       765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             130.01f     120.0      108.0           180.1       197.6       240.6
URBAN                              50.0/7      50.0       60.0              ..       260.2
RURAL                             620.04T     770.0      730.0              ..      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PFR HOSPITAL BED            ..        23.0         ..             15.3       17.3        19.2
POLSING
AVEFLAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         3.2/h       ..               ..        4.7
URBAN                                ..         2.87h       ..               ..        4.4
RURAL                                ..         3.4/h       ..               ..        5.1
AVERAGE NULMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                            1.4/h                                 1.1
URBAN                                            1.37Wh                                1.2
RURAL                                ..          1.4Th      ..               ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICTY (PERCENT
OF CWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         49.0/h      ..               ..       66.0
URBAN                                           86. 071                               85.1
RURAL                                           27.o7i      ..



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROHANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
AREFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSIED AYkRAGES
ROMANIA                       _- HOST RECENT EStIMATE) -
SAME         SAME      NTXT HICIGR
M06T RECENT      CCOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 lb EST1iATE lb         REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  98.0         113.0      109.0             105.7       101.7   _   107.6
!ALE                  101.0        112.0       110.0            107.1        110.0
FEMiALE                95.0        114.0      108.0             104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOIAL                   24.0          45.0       62.0             65.9         51.2         39.7
MtALE                  27.0         51.0       65.0              70.3         56.4
FEMALE                 22.0         38.0       59.0              62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  54.0             58.0       70.0              20.4        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRI"A.Y                              25.0         21.0        21.0             26.7         27.1
SECONDARY                            16.0          18.0       19.0               ..         25.3
ADL'LT LIIERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..           ..       98.0                ..        86.1
CnNS LMPT ION
PASSt NOFR CARS PEP. THnrISAN'D
POPULATION                              ..          ..          ..            105.5         53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          109.0         152.0      146.0            233.7        225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER 111OUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0          73.0      120.0            148.0        102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PFR
THOUSAND POPULATICN                   147.0         169.0      129.0                ..        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0              9.8        8.7               6.4         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOIAL LAPROR FORCE (7HOUSANIIS)      9600.0        9900.0   10200.0
FE"ALE (PERCENT)                     44.9         44.5        44.6             32.3         24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCE-.T)               64.5         49.0        34.4             25.8         23.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   20.5         23.0       32.7              33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (iEROF'l1
TOTAL                                   57.1         56.0       55.9              37.6        33.8         40.1
MALE                                    64.5         63.3       62.8              57.0        51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                  50.1         49.0       49.1              28.0        16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.7          0.7        0.7               1.0         1.3           1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICiHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..               ..         ..             47.9         57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..            ..         ..               5.0         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..            ..         ..              15.4        11.0
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTI?1ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..            ..         ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      378.0                ..       550.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..      378.0            436.1        403.4
ESTI!IATFD POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POtERTY INCONE LEVEL PERCE.NT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..
Not available
Not applicdhle.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excltiding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of ccuntries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for 4ost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe;   /d  t'pper Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   le  High Income  (over $2500 per capita,
1976);   /f  1962;   L   Av. 1972-74;   /h  1966;   Li  WHO estimate.
HOy. 1979



- 25 -                                                                    ANi<- b
iIErlflT0I  OF SOCAL TMICATOPS                                                     PFE         "
l0tOt-: Although the data ar  drawn fromsore  gecrsrily Judged the Wets s.tharitati-. sOd reliable, it should .150 be acted that tocy vp not O,o ritc c.
ti.nally coemparable becosoas  of the lack of standardin.d diflnitiona end conocepts used by different coUtci.ie  in collecting the date. The data ar., ,crsthelo.-
...ef.l to describe orders of magotitde, Indicate tre,-ds, and charseterice certain major differences bet-o'n countries.
The adjusted group acer... for .aOh iadicator are ppopaltion-eeighted geomtric smeng, aoloodiag the estrse. vales of the Indicator nod its  -sot poplsa.td
outry in each gproup.  Tua to inch of data, group averages of al indicators for Capital Surplus Oil. Fb         --esad of indicators of Acness lo Woter eod F.-rt.
DisPot.. 1, tiOusig, Ioose Distribution end POverty for other oco~ntry groups ste populatica-osighted geomtric seen.1othOont exclusion of the ..teeo vIe.r ond
the oust Ppclsl..d o..-try.  Sinc  thet coeag f coutries omnot the iniaosdpnso   vilabiltiy of data sd 1~. ot -nifo.-. cautio   otbnered
In veinting  -verages of Ion atd cator to enotbr.  These &gvrerso   sre  sotly us.fu  asapelain    f  eoo,'eoswhncnsl1,.  onon  ofco
Ind.1catra     te-mn  the .-utry  -d, refor-se  groue..
EANDO AREA (thousand oqi.k.)                                                              Ae.... te feKrsta Di.pos (pr t of  tcslto) - tc01. oct-0.vdvrs 
Total . Totalsraeae   opiigln   raedtln see                                               limher of peol  (teal  urben  end rural) served ty -creto dlsposal as
Ag.ieultur.l - M.ter raecet eetimate of agricultural, area ..ed teepearaidy               peoar..tmgse of their r-pe-tto- Pooc~itlouin.~ totrot. lisp-sc. TercnY        d
or permsnently for crops, peatures, merket and kitchen gardeng or to                    the oclleotlon s.d disposal, citb or without treat-me, of oseoovre.
lie fello.                                                                              and waste-et.tr by e.atr-horn  eyotem  or the Os. of pIt prives and 0. 1.
rN    E  CPT   (s) - CNIP per capita. estimete  at current market prices,           Inst&.94p9.n.ay.~~44n-ppttv   iie   yome   fpeoibvyyi
-co.iclt.d bysame .....ersio  method ma World penis Atlas (1976-7  bie;iAItdiiilalschool St uni-ersity le-cI
1960, 1970,-ed 1.978 ddt..                                                              22gulati  Pne Nursing Person - P.piolotico divided by o-ob-r of  raio oy min
SUSyCigtgft PER CAPTTA - hossonl consumption of c.meeio1 enrg                                 ..dfel   graduate oursee, practical  tres., end  se.t ,tt   -Sev
EOalnod C  iognitE, etroleu, octural g          a. nd bydro-, nuclear end gen-           Ponulation Pot Hgneital Bed - total. orban sd rural - PopuIlti,,   on   ont.,
therml electr-cty) in kiliograms of no.1 eqivIn.lt Per capita; 1960,                      end rura) divided by their respectic  nubr oiopt.t1 be-  oilb.vc
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                      pbhllo sOd privtat  eSnral smd specialieed bacopital asd roo.IiLi totoon  _-occ,-c
Hospitals are~ establishments Permanently statffd by at least -t phciyeia.n
POPUJIATIOTN AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            Establishment. providing priooipaily cu4todial car  art cot -ncluded, bn-.1
T.tisof.oy I  1F.                                               170,  n                   hospital.s, hnsoeer, include health end medical cent-rs cot oereoe-l.y ot.ffed
1977                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a physician (but by a medical esai.tent, tese, aiioife, eitc.) alic. off-
Irben opulatdco lerceetof~ total) - Ratio of orbs. totctal population:                     in-_patient aeosmdati.. end D-icede a limited voge ,r medical faictl-cec
aiffro  definitions  furban area  nay affeet comparability of data                    Adminelona par Hospital Bed - Total sumber of &dm.ie...n to or diochergsr  frva
noun  coetros; i6i,1970), end 1971 data.                                          h.spital. dlided by -the -miol- cf bedo.
Pcoaieproletins
PopulIatiol I vent Oc05 - Torrent population projectoine  are based on              OitSINt
197 .toalpopulation by age sod nea end their eurtslity and ferIt                                              PIr. lc    fHoshl     leroll por b2l hl(-toa.c00  ui  ua 
rates.  eojeoti.o. paaeesfrmtliyrat.s comprise of tte                                 A hee-eheld conist. o     gopf         idIiduas  ho stareliving carttro  old
levels aenoming lif.e  pe.teney at birth increasing with tountry' a                   their main meals.  A boarder or lodger sly or may cot be iovlooico in the
per capita income level, ed female life cepentenny stabilizing at                     household fur siatietiosl psopoe..
77.5 years.  The parameters for fertilibty rate also have three levels              Averag, number of persons pe  om-ttl  urban. end nasal   Average cooleor
asojlog. deoltos 1c fertility .....rding to income leve  end pent                    or persons per ron. in        Mre,- ent ua   cuidCnvoinldein
fC."l  oIlsonlg pelfrfsormac. Cash country Is thea assigned one of these              rsspentiveIy,  Dwellinsg  exclude aoo-peemneneet otrut-e  end rooccupited enrtc.
iee ccshieatlem  if  morality and fertility trends for projection                  Access to Electricity (peret of dSettng)   total   Lb                 adlra      Con-
purposes.                                                        c~~~~~~~~~~~entlonal dweling  cu lctiiy! in livi;ng qMserters no yr-etsge 
StationaRy PopuIstioc - in a etati-oory Population  there ie no growth                  total, orban, and rural d-1.lige respecti-eSy.
si nce the bit  ort  icqa  to the death rate, end aleo the age
st ructUre remains consteont. This IS achieved only after f.rtiiity rates        IEDUCATION
doclilne to the repi. ement level Of unit not reproduction rate, eh..              Adjie.t;d Enorolimest Ration
eac h generstion of women replaces itself exactly.  Thee         nnsypopu-            Primary eehnol - inltel. al :d feml   Gross toa. -sl                d0 fenele enrll
loIon oi.. eas eatomated on the basis of the projected charaoterietics                mtof a11 ages attepisy                lelaspercetag-s of ...sPotie P-cnry
of the populatios Ie the year 2000, end the rate of decline of fertility                school-age popnlatto...; normally includes children aged 6.11 yearl but
rate to replacement level.                                                              adjus.ted for different lengths of primary educationi; for nic      wc iti
beer tatone""y  "opuIti-n IS reached - The year shen Stationary Pepulation                uniersal eduction enrollment ma  emceed 100 perln-t oite acme pupils
oiIe bus been reached,                                                                  are hel..o  above the official Scbool  ge.-
Povotaltio CeDoni1ty                                                                       eondar  Icol-tta,mlo  femal  - Compted a   i.v   roo
Pre So. bkn. - Mid-rear pooclatio  pee sioar  kilometer (100 hectares) of                 odunno eoie   tlat fu  year  of appro-eo ProcasY iSo trut
total orea                                                                              provides general voctional, cv tenher training i-ntr-oict-    civ p,pilo
Per So    . gri-olturel Isoci- Conpoted no shon  for agrinUorltr]  ind                    usalY if 1.2 to 17 years of age; cors-ooce-rroc   r  covly
only.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e-ltded.
bOocetin ho  Stoveue    -ervt) -  hitldre-  0-lA year), cork-g-ags                 voctioa enrollmen-t (prea f- eonao  - V-ctLon-I  -Occtlctet-  loolde
(-64  Ct t  n  rtedbSyars and over) ae percentages of mid-pear                          technical, industrial, or9 oth 'er rigssuhcdpeae  ocenct   vn
populstico; 1960, 1970, end 1977 dots.                                                    departments of secodary institution-
Pocroltion Growth bate pecent  tongtal-nna   roteanof total mid-                           -oi-ece  ai     rmried scnay-Total stodnt  e nrolladoii
YearppltosfrIO-p  AST,ed17-7                                                              primary an   eodr  Svl   lled            b  .iobcr  of teaciero  in tie corme.
PoS.Lation Growth bate )oervont) - irba; - Annual growth rates of irbon                     epooding level s.
po,pulaions for 1950-bo,  9byC-70, eni 1970.75.                                         Adult literacy rate (pEr...        Literate ad.lts (able to reen smd write) So
Cruct Birth Rate 'pe  thcusand) - An...al Ice births pier thousand of sod-                   apercentaeo  totl adul population, aged 15 years and over.
YIar p`PocLtton; 196, 1970, end 1977 data.
Cru.e Death Rote  per thousan,d) - APnuoo1 deaths per tbou-aod 00 nod.ye-             CSBSURPSITc
pcPulatioo; 19bO, 1970. nd 1977 coata.                                                p..eege Care (por thou.cd p.pulatiot.   PaSengeTYcePr  oompRChe ootor ror
,o  P vooIct    late-Overage 0-00- of daughters a sosa  cil  bear                     noai   lees then tight pereons; .-edo.ue  nmoulanc-s, he-.e. ed  iLit-ry
ccRic  or-ca  r-prodooti- p-juoc  fC She  errcw        present age-                    -ehi.ln.
.o-oflc  rto- lity rntv -I u.-11y floe-year averages ending 1  1960,                  Radio_ Reiver (per-oon  ppulatiot) - All types of rceeov.er foe r.di
C-iTO, sodi975.                                                                         had ttoenrlpbic per tbooe"no of popcIlatlon; oxcoldoS cc.Ocl-cood
Fo.-ly P   -`gio  - oit-ne, cymbl tiousndn) - Oous center of                              recivers in Countrien sod it yearn oh.. regloSrtto- of -mol  -et at -i
coceictorn of iio-oorl  eicvodr                ,upces of national feelly                effect; data for recent pear  oy not be  -oprototc   <   occtcv
urecog Prcgroo.                                                                        abolisied 1lice.. iog.
moILly Pbnoi.tg- c-ev   perceot If maried s-ne,  - Per..enisge of mesied               TV Receivers (per tonussOod population) - TVroevr  for brondomo  c  eerc
aimtof child-ccarting age  15-44 yeora)  h.c bt birch-cntrol de-ices                 publ   per t ounend  opulation;cctt   nieedT  reiere itvc.v.
ac Ii  arird  -ot  in uam  age groop.                                                 end in years ohen regiutration of TV setg ca. in effect.
ctcl Omil Icffpiocccs                                             Neesnane~~~~~~~~.FVr CIrculation (per thbueand pc ilaoo) - Sh... tie ooerog  nIro  tcic
cC fod Ovcrictot  r Ceite i9t97l.it -iode  of  er oputaof 'ailygeneral interest retopope~r    efied as a periodical p.ILnt-o
coniC  ;mc i-oot if  l fo net Ceevdtln   dPodot           efle  seed -pid           deroted primaily to recordinggeraov.Itnocoird  vA dcl
if it appeare at lentTu  le      en
lord n-d -S 00 oni1coa  year basis.  Cocdities cover pricc.rY goosCieaAnulAtednn   e                                     meit co . oe-ao.....iobo  ,'wn
..g. ogarvoe i caeadoySuagr) which are ed,io  end cotain .Oteitote              sl.eigteya,icuigamolc to drive., Ic ooebea  oc  ci-c
e.g. voffce ed"cen eve coolded).  Aggregate prOSo doOtic.O.if eact oconfnerys unit-s
ic  ood on tettooi acevae producer fnir c..        ti
zc opit. -uppIy of onovc   PeOvc  cc c  ol_eoitS)  . Cputnd from                  LAWDR FORCE
-oocyr oaulvlont c f orb  .0 5cPIicycc   inli   to  outry Pre  'apita               Totnl Inbryc FL"            Ls;-tcnaoll   civ    ns n,   laoiuo' ttI
per Say.  Availobdo <19cP- - c            .c  -,v oeoo  pr-d-otci, meports less       frcoFirndTh6ithSi9usand. un E cuoivll  otive,  p,rvoshtic    _fT,hic
-oot,co  iolv    .   _co.  Slet lOPPIcs o-clde aoa-&L foed, seeds,            in cariou- oountriee ar  tot coparable.
.,cc,.vccccor  icCodprocenolg, end loo-  In dintrobuticn. bequlre-           Fecipr-eotr( !- feal  labor force ae percentage cc t,tni 1,ev finr-
-. or'clieated 'Yv FAD bowel cr peys-lgicnj_ neeS  or normeal                                          -Labir fCrc cc farming, firoocry,  ootIng nod
000  ce.1th o-oscIcng ocn-rcOsrta  t-nperatc.r, body ceightc,             fiubing mc pere..rtgo of total labor force.
--ad oicatribotion  cc popolt-nt, sod allo-ing is pe-o-t for                Industry (prerent) - Labor fror  in mlinig,cotrto,cofa..-,,r
ot ho..nebhli C-el.                                                             electr,icty, riter en   as "eec"ntag.o  total icobor for.
-n Pitpi  soPoty if  -rteo. (gren pr e)- Protbc  content of per                    P-nticivatirn Rate (ero~entZ) -total   ae  n   ecl       e'tieico
vnciii.noet sopply of foo  pr  ay   etoply if foo io defined ac                       atitity rates are  c.oputed asttl  tl,odfco,Ie 4botnefooo                   ir
tOirc. ieuveentsforft.    ootre  o-t.bli.hed by VISDA prooide for a              -nstage oftotl, sale end fesale pulto ofi.ae                      epcci,c
.1tmo  aioen-t.o  60 re   of total  rotein per day end 20 gram  of                1960. 1I  fgomo   p970, end 1975 data.  Thes  te  110   permcc,nio  ratna mfe in~
un"im.l ed pulse procein, of obh-i 10 gram   ohoid he anIma  protein.                 age-.e. etrctere of the population, and long tine  coend.  Afey  -oi- tro
hse steod.rds are lower then thone of 75 gram  if total protein end                 are  from cational sares.
.C  rm   f      -aialpoein as soaerage for tic  -oId, prop ..d by FAO          ggonomillo Ppndey Ratio  -  Ratio of poprlati-n oce- 15 so  c o5  inc   c
Inte   br. World food Suroey.                                                     the leborfore t  age grop of 15-o4 years..
for cap Ito orotein supply from enimal end poa.e - Protein oupply of food
klervd fros -enallaend  ulses in grses per miy.                                  12EM  DIdl_PIN_TRIN
CI 1 .0 (ae  1-i) IstM,-ity bate(per thoo-and) - Annual deaths Per thoo.aad            Pecnaerd(lasIs                  both iscsash end kiod   RooeIved by nJolcot
ci age groip 1-i yeatrn, to cicidreci I'thiis ago grut; for most derel-                 5 percent, richest 20 Per-et, poorest_                  an enet,sd poorest LI' pconv'c
opiog -oitrlea data derived fren life tailee.                                           ofhbouseholds.,
oAIT'i                                                                                  ",V,OfTRE  OIP
liex toeec ot Birt~h       --yer   - Average   eole  of y-ar  if life                 CLtne   bout  cet  tc eIel (111  p,r capItal ~- orso sodro
nemainio  at bin;196 , 190, sod  97. dat.                                     Absolute povety ioosme leve   s that   oselvlbow hib   soooo
count H`ortality Rate (per thousand) - Orcual tieathe of infants cisowe oe                nutritionally adequate diet PIoa  Senstisl 000-food requiremnt0  i0 n-.
yean of age per thbousand lice birurhs.                                                 affordable.
Safe ..ter Supply (Includes treated -sofac  natern or untreated but                     p-esceal incame of the countsp. tUrban IoeI is derd e   rx  Icrra   e
oacoatafmioated eater ouch as that fr.. protected borehcles, springs,                   oith sdJuetoet for higher cost of Jicig in urban areasA.
end ne"itery selle) as prerentage. of their reepetti-e popuolations. In               Estimated Ponsottin elo,  Absolute Poetyicmelve                  reo        rbean
aurhb  area a pablic fountain or standpoint berated not more then                     rues._ r art of populato   obnadrrl   h,ae'b6l9y9
2OP meters fco-   house may he considere  as being mithle remuomable                                                                                      ouep,"
_ccese of that house. In ror areas Lreason"bls wcces ..uId Imply
that the houaewife or members of the househld do not ha.e to spenda                                                            Ee50oi.i end 0000.1 Pat. Dieo-ion
disproporti ...ts part of the day in fetching the feaulysO matsr needs                                                    Economic Analysis sad Projections Department



ANNEX I
-26                                                Page   o    5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
SHOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
US$Mln.           %           1961-65           1966-70           1971-75          19T5-78
,NP at Market Prices                      36,040          100.0          9.01/             7.7'              11. 3Y             9.11'
,ross Fixed Dor.estic Investment          10,905           30.3         11.3              11.2              11.2               11.9
;ross National Saving                     10,126           28.1           ..
"urrent Accouit Balance                     -779            2.2
_xport of Goods, llFS                      8,639           24.0          9.0 /1           10.9  /            23.6J1            11.5?J'3/
inport3 of Conds, NFS                      9,174           25.5         10.7 2/l          12.7 W)            22. waI           15.5v3J
1JT_T,_!ABOR FORCE AND
,RDUJCT1VT      1
National Income-V                 Labor Force                       N.I. Per Worker
Us$ Bln.         S             hln             _                 us $        f      S
Agriculture                                  3.94          13.5           3.36             32.7              1,173             41.4
Industry                                   14.93           51.3          3.41              33.2              4,378            154.5
Conostrction                                2.63             9.0         0,92               8.9              2,859            100.9
Other/                                       T7.63         26.2           2.59             25.2              2,946            104.0
Total/Average                       29.13          100.0         10.28            100.0              2,834             100,0
GOVERNiMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Le. Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                              300.8           52.4
Total Expenditures                         299.3            52.1
Total Surplus                                 1.5            0.3
MONE'f, CREDIT AND PRICES
'in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975          19T6          ml1                 18
"oney Sulpply                              176.4          201.4        207.5             232.5
Short-Term Bank Credit                     170.2          194.0        194.5              212.8
Petail Prices (1975 - 100)                 103.9          104.4         105.0             107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           0.2            0.5          0.5               2.2
Gr outn rate of national income                                                                           EMENA CPID
In current prices
_ Growth rates of exports and imports only.
9  System of material production methodology.                                                                August 3, 1979
2  Includes net output of the non-productive sector.



At4UEX I
P3ge 5 of 5 pages
- 27 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)                                         MERCHAIDISE E.X1ERTS 1978
(All Currencies)
1971       1977        1978                                  US $ Mln      %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods and MIFS               +944        3,983       4,459          Capital goods            2,289       28
Imports of Goods and NFS                -988        4,o80       5,018         Consumer goods            1,405       17
Resource Gap (deficit = -)               -44          -97        -559         Foodstuffs                  784       10
Intermediate goods         667        8
Interest Payments                        -4o         -195        -168         Raw materials             2,911       37
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25          +19         -52            Industrial             2,538       32
Balance on Current Account              -109         -273        -779            Agricultural             373        5
Total             8,056     100
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MLT Borrowing 
Disbursements         *            +312        +928       1,167                 EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1978)
Amortization                       -190        -561         602
Subtotal                           +122        +367        +565                                        US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended3/(net)             2/        -171        -186
Short-Term Credit (net)                  -20         +156        +441         Total M and LT                 3,702
Net Errors and Omission                   -            -           -1           of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7          +32        +40)           currencies                   3,610
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                            635.6      2,622.1    3,346.5
of which Oil and Oil Products    36.6         875.4       n.a.
Exports                             425.5     1,463.0    1,800.2
of which Oil and Oil Products   143.0         688.1       n.a.
Convertible currencies only   18.0
EXCHANGE RATES
1.  Official Rate
Before August 1971                  : 6 lei:US$1
August l9'l1-February 1973             5.53 lei:US$1
February 1973-March 1978               4.97 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                       4.47 lei:US$1
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                  : 18 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973              16 lei:US$l
February 19T3-October 1974             14.35 lei:US$1
Since October 1974                     12 lei:US$l
3. Converstion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978                 20 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                       18 lei:US$1
/ Includes use of IMF credit.                                                                              EMENA CP1D
Included in M and LT Capital.
3  Includes S, M and LT credits extended.                                                                  August 3, 1979



ANNEX rI
- 28 -                       Page I of 6 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
STATESENT OF BANK LOANS (As of August 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
;^an Number   Year    Borrower              Purpose          Bank  TW  IDA   Undisbursed
T--ee loans fully disbursed                                 150.0
M. 1020-RO    1974    Investment Bank      Fertilizer       60.0                 5.8
1027-RO    1975    Investment Bank      Special Steel    70.0                 2.2
1083-RO    1975    BAFI        - /   Agricultural         30.0                3.6
Credit
1169-RO    1976    BAFI                 Flood Recovery   40.0                 1.9
.n. 1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank      Hydropower        50.0               16.1
1247-RO    1976    BAFI                 Irrigation       60.0               18.9
1368-RO    1977    BAFI                 Irrigation       60.0               30.7
Lr. 1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank      Bearings         38.0               29.3
_ . 1447-RO    1977    Investment Bank      Glass Fiber      18.3                 2.4
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank      Polyester        50.0               20.7
z. 1479-RO    1978    BAFI                 Agricultural      71.0               48.9
Credit
L . 1509-RO    1978    BAFI                 Irrigation       40.5               40.5
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank      Tire             85.0               81.8
1581-R0    1978    Investment Bank      Post Earthquake  60.0               49 9
1634-Ro    1979    Investment Bank      Chemicals        40.0               36.1
1651-Ro    1979    Investment Bank      Pipe             40.0               40.0
1652-RO    1979   Investment Bank       Thermal Power    70.0               70.0
i. 1669-Ro    1979    BAFI                 Livestock        75.0               75.0
1670-Ro    1979    BAFI                 Irrigation       70.0               70.0
Total                              1,177.8             643.8
of which has been repaid               2.5
Total now outstanding              1,175.3
Amount sold         19.4
of which repaid      2.5              16.9
Total now held by Bank-/          1,158.4
Total undisbursed                   643.8              64-3.8
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
- 29 -                       Page 2 of 6 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
LN No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial de:Lays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement has been completed, and construction
is well advanced.  The ammonia and the DAP plants have been commissioned, and
the urea plant is expected to be commissioned by the end of 1979, about 24
months later than expected. The final project cost is expected to be close to
the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 19751-
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the
Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
More recent delays have been caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured
equipment. The cold mill was commissioned in July, 1979 and construction on
the bar mill is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules with
commissioning expected in January, 1980. Total project costs are expected to
be essentially equal to appraisal estimates. The project is now expected to
be completed in 1980.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan oE
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a fifteen month delay in commissioning
of generating units. Project execution is otherwise according to plan and
satisfactory. Training of future operational staff is in hand. The loan is
now fully disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of all major works has been completed; some minor works
are continuing and will be completed during 1979. Overall project completion
is about 99 percent. Procurement has been completed. About 70 percent of the
project area was irrigated during 1978, and the full project area will be
irrigated during 1979. Total project costs are expected to be about US$33
million less than appraisal estimate. The loan was fully disbursed in March
1979.
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Disbursements amounted to US$26.4 million as of August 31, 1979 or 88 percent
of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1979 and installation will extend into 1980. The
loan closing date has been extended to December 31, 1979 and will need to be
extended further. Disbursements as of August 31, 1979 totalled $38.1 million
or 95 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation methods will begin early in 1980. Project execution is
currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works for the dam and under-
ground power station are well underway, and about 75 percent of the loan
amount has been committed.



- 31-                      ANNEX II
Page 4 oi 6 pages
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, four farms are
completed and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of
total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts
for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is
near to completion and will be operational by the end of 1979. Work on soil
erosion control and the land levelling is behind schedule.
Ln No. 1368    lalomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977: Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 35 percent of pipe has been delivered.
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory, and are
about 40 percent complete. In 1979 about 18,000 ha have been irrigated.
Works on surface and tile drains are behind schedule.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Contracts on most major packages have now been signed and imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. Project costs are
expected to be close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to
the initial cost data and overall economic aspects of the project look some-
what more favorable due to the improved market outlook, improved product mix,
and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
One section of the project was commissioned in January, 1979, and
the other section is being implemented about 4 months behind schedule.
Commercial operation of the whole project is expected to begin in November,
1979.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily with production still expected to begin
in early 1980 as planned.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania
in a development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the develop-
ment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection
centers, expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of
slaughtering and processing facilities. Project implementation is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment
procurement under ICB is almost complete. Disbursements as of August 31,
1979 were $22.1 million or 31 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts were received in November and
December, 1978, and almost all contracts have been awarded. Construction of
project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of irrigation
works have been completed.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is on schedule with
expected completion in January, 1980. The Turnu-Severin plant (off-the-road
tires) has been delayed 17 months mainly as a result of difficulties in
obtaining adequate responses from prospective suppliers of the main technology
and equipment package. The Romanian Government has recently begun negotia-
tions with Dunlop (U.K.) for the OTR package.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements have
lagged because the amount of advance contracting has been greatly reduced,
because of the use of terms which extend payments far beyond what was envis-
aged, and because of delays in submitting withdrawal applications. They are
expected to accelerate in FY80.
Ln. No. 1634   Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January 15,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the various units are expected to come on stream on
schedule.



-33                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Ln. No. 1651   Roman Seamless Pipe Proiect; US$40.0 Million Loan of February 26,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of six months procurement and construction are
proceeding satisfactorily, and it is expected that a contract for tile main tech-
nology package will be signed very soon.
Ln. No. 1652   Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for implementa-
tion of both projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW thermo-
electric units have been placed.
Ln No. 1669    Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of Aporil 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Draft tender
documents for procurement of construction materials have been received in the
Bank for review.
Ln No. 1670    Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Pro_Ject; US$70
Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Draft
bidding documents for procurement of equipment and materials under ICB have
been received and are being reviewed.



-34-                                ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                     17 months (August 1977 -
January 1979)
(b) Agency which has prepared the
project:                                Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank, and date of first Bank
mission to consider the project:         July 1977 and September 1978
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                March 15, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   September 12, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          February 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  Disbursements for BAFI loans would be subject to prior approval by
the Bank of subprojects costing over lei 70 million and representa-
tive subprojects costing less than lei 70 million, on the basis of
the technical and economic analysis of subprojects made by BAFI
according to the methodology agreeable to the Bank (para. 56).
(ii)  The Government would be required to alter the current feed quality
to improve the feed conversion ratio from 2.5 kg of feed for 1 kg
of meat gain to 2.3 kg of feed for the same meat gain when the
broiler growing facilities under the project will start or resume
their operations (para. 49).



24-                             2,t                                           0'                                        MAY 1979
~~~~~~~~~O                                                                              50                                                                     3
i +            -~    ROMANIA   Yu
5/ack                                    - -                                   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
I.                             LIVESTOCK m (POULTRY) PROJECT
22t                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poultry slaughterhouses:
C Z E C H O S L O V A K I A                                                                                                              I AS (State)
Broiler production units (New)
U.         S.         S.          R.                                ICA (Cooperative)
i IAS
4    H-   U     N_ 0'      A-*                                                                                                             Broiler  production   units  (Modernization)   4 .
H-~  0                    N                     XG A R Y t </; v w. O A \Poultry breeding (Broiler):
IAS
SATU   MARE) MARAMUREs                 -                                                       - --District (Judet) boundaries
-,    >      .i -   SUC AV U c  E A  V y/                             -.-International boundaries
> / J I BISTRITA- {                -- -.
X                   \    SALAJ   /         )                       s v           \;O1 ASNISAUD
A
ARAD0  ,--'-> _                        ' _i  _ U    U                            'p <   t N e A ^8 1 \t    _  SWNE
C    L  U ' J           10/ru1  A  C       N                                                              -                              46
TIM \-_I) (3  *      H_-U      - N E                             \ ** D         B U                                                          B A C        K6 s.E"
A R\; At '                                                                    Z        -' -SA    K
i~~~~~S Bi~ U 
CARAS-                                                                B UZ U          l         G             A                              R L  A   /
GORJ ;    2           ARG,E                                  Al BR RSEAL
EDINTI\,. N                            IBVI                                                                                     A __ 
T                            ~~~~0
Y4    U   GLJS  L          V   1                                                        0 LFOVNSATA9                                                                                      4
44'                              0 L~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                        44
I  U            L                      
22'                               24'                              26 C' 



