Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             IL1    COPY
Report No. 2602a-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
September 24, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Lei 18       =         US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)            =       2.5 acres
1 kilogram (kg)           -       2.2 pounds
1 kilometer (kIn)                 0.6 mile
1 cubic meter (m3)        =       1.3 cubic yards
1 sq meter (m2)           =       1.2 square yards
1 ton (t)                 -       2,200 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI       =  Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP        -  Agricultural Production Cooperative
Cc         =  Consumption Cooperative
CRC        =  Credit Cooperative
EC         =  European Economic Community
IAS        =  State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA/ICAP   =  Intercooperative Association
ICB        =  International Competitive Bidding
ICRA       =  District Food Wholesale Enterprise
(Subordinate to MFIT)
LW         =  Liveweight
MAFI       =  Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MFIT       =  Ministry for Internal Trade
AVICOLA    =  Poultry Central
MIT        =  Meat Industrialization Trust
NB         =  National Bank of Romania
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION  . ........................ .. ..............                         1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR * *.             .............................              1
A.    The Resource Base .           ....... .......... .*  .........               1
B.   Role in the Economy  .............................                            3
C.    Investment Program . .............. . . .          ..........*.***           4
D.    Development Constraints  and Issues  .               .............           6
E.    The Poultry Subsector  ...........................                           7
F.    Support Services  . ................... ...  ........ .                     10
G.    Bank Assistance  in Agriculture  ..................                         14
III.    THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY  ...........                            16
A.    Overview            ........................................                16
B.    Fiscal Agency Operations  .....              ...................            16
C.    Financing Policies and Procedures  ....                ...........          17
D.   Source of Funds  ......   .              ...........................         17
E.    Financial Conditions  ..............................                        18
IV.    THE PROJECT .............               .............................             18
V.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ..........................                           20
A.    Project Cost ....................................................           20
B.    Project Financing  ...............................                          22
VI.    DEMAND AND MARKETS ASPECTS  ..              ..........................            23
VII.    TECHNOLOGY, RESEARCH AND PLANT LOCATION  .............               .             26
VIII.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .............           ..................                 29
A.    Organization and Management                 ....................            29
B.    Lending Policies and Procedures                ................ *           29
C.    On-Lending Terms  ................................                          30
D.   Procurement  . ............              .......................             31
E.    Disbursements  ........................ .............                       31
F.    Accounts and Audit  ..............................                          32
G.    Monitoring  ...... .............. .................................         32
H.    Environmental Impact                ............................            33
I.    Role Women  ................. .....................                        33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclsed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
IX.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTITICATION ....................          33
A.   Production   .......................................       33
B.  Markets and Prices .........................,.35
C.   Financial Analysis ...............................         36
D.   Economic  Analysis   ................................      37
X.   RECOMMENDATIONS .....................                           39
ANNEXES
1.  Estimated Project Procurement
2.   Table 1:  Phasing of Project Investments
Table 2: Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
Table 3: Phasing of Project Commitments
3.   Investment Program Actual and Planned
4.   Table 1:  Chicken Meat Production in Select:ed Countries
Table 2:  Meat Per Capita Consumption for Selected Countries
Table 3:  Romania Poultry Production 1978-1985
Table 4:  Romania Per Capita Consumption of Meat
Table 5:  Export of Meat
Table 6:  Income Elasticities for Demand of Selected Poducts
Table 7:  Protein Per Capita Per Day
5.  Material Balance
6.   Table 1:  Financial and Economic Price
Table 2:  Economic Benefits and Costs
7.  Table 1:  IAS New Broiler Production Units
Table 2:  CAP New Broiler Production Units
Table 3:  LAS Broiler Breeding Farms
Table 4:  CAP Modernization Broiler Production Units
Table 5:  Poultry Processing Plants
8.   Statement of Expenditures
9.   Table of Contents Project Implementation File
MAPS
IBRD No. 14310 Socialist Republic of Romania
Livestock III (Poultry) Project



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Republic of Romania has requested
the Bank's assistance in financing an integrated Poultry (breeding, growing
and slaughterhouse) project. The proposed project was first submitted to
the Bank in 1977. However, it was felt that since the proposed technology
(mechanized cage system) had only a limited operational experience and lacked
data to support its viability, it could not be appraised. As a result, Govern-
ment was advised that the project should be postponed for consideration at
such time additional operational experience had been gained. In September
1978, a preparation mission visited Romania and examined the results obtained
after an additional year of operating experience and made a comparative
analysis of the mechanized cage system with the deep litter system. The
mission concluded that the system is technically viable and has a comparative
advantage over the existing floor system. The proposed project is based on a
preparation report submitted to the Bank in February 1979 and the findings of
an appraisal mission that visited Romania in March/April 1979 composed of
Messrs. E.P. Schertz, P. Aklilu and J. Krasowski (Bank) and R. Arvidson
(Consultant).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Resource Base
2.01       Romania has an area of 237,500 sq. km covering three distinct
agro-climatic zones        which have influenced the country's pattern of
agricultural and livestock development. The Plains Zone, forming the grain
belt of Romania is endowed with fertile soils (53% of arable and 18% of
pasture and meadow land), contains accessible river flows which have been
and can be developed for irrigation, and relatively developed infrastructure
(roads and facilities). The Plains Zone stretches from the west along the
Danube river, to the southern parts bordering with Bulgaria and southeastern
parts bordering the Black Sea. In this zone intensive cattle and poultry
development has taken place over the last decade. The Foothills Zone, is less
productive and has limited agricultural activity. It contains about 28% of
arable and 32% of the pasture and meadowland, mostly in small and fragmented
farm holdings. The Mountain and Tableland Zone, covers the central and
northern parts of Romania, and contains about 19% of arable and 50% of pasture
and meadow lands. Romania's forest resources in the mountains and the uplands
present a good potential for future exploitation. Selected agricultural data
indicators are presented in Table 1.



-2-                                   Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Selected Agricultural Data and Indicators
1960              1970                     1977
Total Population (Mill.)            18.4               20.2                    21.6
Rural (%)                          66                 5'3                     56
Total Labour Force (Mill.)           9.60               9.90                   10.22
Agricultural (%)                65                 49                      34
Total Land Area (Mill. ha.)         23.8               23.8                     23.8
Agricultural                     14.5               14.9                    15.0
Arable                         9.8                9.;7                    9.8
Pasture                        2.8               3.0                      3.0
Other                          2.9               2.2                      2.2
Agricultural Land Holdings (%)
State                        26 1/              30 2/                      30
Cooperatives                  9 1/              61 2/                      61
Individual                   65 1/               9 2/                       9
Fixed Assets (Mill. Lei)            n.a.              48455                   85392
State (%)                    n.a.                 56                       55
Cooperatives (%)             n.a.                 44                       45
Arable Area Per Tractor (ha.)        222                 91                       71
Fertilizer Use (Kg. Per Arable ha.)
State                           34               123                      158
Cooperatives                 n.a.                  52                      90
Crop Production
Wheat
State-Production ('000 tons)   715                   799                    1235
-Yield (ton/h3.)            1.8                2.0                      3.5
Cooperatives-Production
('000 tons)                     n.a.               2504                     5L22
-Yield (ton/ha.)           n.a.                1.3                      2.7
Maize
State-Production ('000 tons)   625                  1404                    2056
-Yield (ton/ha.)            1.9                3.3                      3.6
Cooperatives-Production          n.a.               3839                    5170
('000 tons)
-Yield (ton/ha.)           n.a.                2.0                      2.9
Livestock Production
Meat ('000 tons LWT)
State                             127                364                     647
Cooperative                      n.a.                313                     612
Milk ('000
State                            2003               6133                    8285
Cooperatives                     n.a.              10873                   15549
No. of State Farms                                                              :392
No. of Cooperatives                 n.a.               4626,                    4415
Agricultural Exports (% of total)  36                    27                       19
AMricultural Product (Z of
lational Income)                    33                 19                       16
1/ Data shown for 1955
2/ Data shown for 1965



B. Role in the Economy
2.02      Agriculture plays an important role in the Romanian economy.  In
1978, the share of agricultural output in the total social product was 13.4%;
it engaged 32.6% of the labor force and accounted for about 20% of foreign
exchange earnings. The sector is organized on the basis of: (a) social
sector farm units composed of state, cooperative and intercooperative farms;
and (b) individual farms. Product mix of agriculture sector has gradually
changed from 65% crops and 35% livestock in 1960 to 56% crops and 44% live-
stock in 1978. By 1983 the plan target is to reach 50% livestock production.
This shift of production emphasis is due to: (a) government's desire to
improve the quantity and quality of per capita consumption of meat; and (b)
to increase foreign exchange earnings through export of beef, lamb and pork.
Despite the sector's important role in the development of the Romanian
economy, it has always been given secondary priority in the allocation of
investment resources and introduction of new technologies. During the 1950's
and early 1960's when government nationalized large scale farm enterprises
and organized small individual farms into cooperatives, investment was concen-
trated on the state-owned farms (IAS) to ensure adequate supply of food and
fiber to meet the domestic requirements. Hence, technological innovations,
trained manpower, mechanical services were confined largely to the state
farms. However, subsequent recognition of the production potential of the
cooperative farm sector has resulted in the infusion of capital investments
(primarily irrigation facilities) and technical services in this sector.
Consequently, productivity in the cooperative sector has increased gradually
but still remains substantially below that of the state sector. Wheat and
maize yields in the state farm sector are about 25% higher than those in the
cooperative farm sector which is a direct reflection of low level of mechani-
zation (1 tractor for 100 ha), inadequate fertilizer use (100 kg per ha as
compared to 177 kg in the state farm sector in 1978) and poorer land.
2.03      Agriculture's importance is further evidenced by being a primary
source of raw material to supply the agroindustries. With rising per capita
incomes and urbanization, consumers demand includes an increasing proportion
of processed agricultural and livestock products. Except in individual free
markets, animals are slaughtered in slaughterhouses. In the poultry sub-
sector in particular where the individual sector accounts for 60% of total
broiler production, broilers are sold live and are slaughtered at home.
2.04      The growth of the agricultural sector has also meant the emergence
of an indispensable source of foreign exchange (about 20% of total exports in
1978). Over the last decade, the sector has a positive trade balance export-
ing more than it is importing thus contributing to the economy's foreign
exchange treasury. The budgetary foreign exchange allocation for the develop-
ment of agriculture has been less than the sector's foreign exchange earnings.
However, the nature of planning in Romania provides a priority to the develop-
ment of industrial sector which deprives agriculture needed foreign exchange.



- 4 -
C. Investment Program
2.05      In Romania national development plan guidelines are first estab-
lished by the State Planning Committee and approved by the Council of
Ministers and finally decreed by the General Assembly. On the basis of these
guidelines, specific production targets and investment requirements are
prepared at the enterprise level and are coordinated by the District People's
Council. These draft plans are transmitted to the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry (MAFI) which is responsible for the preparation of a con-
solidated and coordinated investment program for the entire agricultural
sector. Finally, MAFI's proposal is submitted to the State Planning Committee
for presentation to and final approval by the Council of Ministers. Such
plans are long-term (15 years), medium-term (5 years) and annual. In 1975,
the Party Congress approved the Sixth Five Year Plan for 1976-1980 which was
set within a longer term perspective covering 1976-1990.
2.06      The planned production targets for 1976-1980 are generally ambitious
compared with the actual achievements during the 1971-1975 plan period.
Planned growth rates (volume) for selected crops are shown below:
Actual           Planned
1970-1975          1976-80
=--- Percent Per Annum --
Maize                                7.1             6.2-8.6
Soybeans                            19.0           19.7-29.2
Sunflower                          -0.6              5.6-8.3
Despite government's stated commitment to: (a) increase fertilizer use from
95 kg per ha of arable land in 1975 to 280 kg per ha in 1980; (b) expand irri-
gation and drainage facilities; (c) channel investment resources into the
cooperative sector to raise productivity; and (d) introduce high yielding and
disease resistant seed varieties and upgrading of cultural practices, the
growth rates most likely to be achieved during 1976-80 would be the lower
figures in the projected range. This pessimism arises from the following
considerations: (a) actual growth rates for energy grains in the recent past
are far below the projected rates; (b) budgetary and other constriaints to
expand irrigation and drainage facilities; (c) the introduction of improved
seeds and other cultural practices will only achieve optimum yields after a
minimum of 3-4 years; and (d) the disparity between cooperative and state
farm sectors is significant so that to reach a global fertilizer application
of 280 kg per ha and availability of other inputs would mi-n; a massive allo-
cation of resources for the distribution of fertilizers.  Dr- n  1.9
production of wheat, maize, soybeans and sunflower, or,laz.'  arn  vLneuc-7.
were the lowest since the beginning of the Sixth  K'ua pei.ie.  mi Lipt it was
believed that poor weather conditions (cold winterm  heav; r §-, duTii g harvest
followed by drought) contributed to production sS rt fails, Givernment Ui a
major policy statement in February 1979 cited c'--aniz&t-i n&iL ard -i nadgeIrenc
inefficiency of the agriculture sector as a prn          _ us.- fot unsatMjfactory



performance of the sector. Specifically, the imbalance prevailing between
state and the cooperative farm sectors in the availability of mechanization
services, technical staff, technological inputs has led government to reorga-
nize the agricultural production units for more efficient utilization of the
available resources. Umbrella organizations known as Agro-Industrial Councils
(AICs) are being established in which each AIC will consist of one State
Mechanization Unit (SMA) and 5 or 6 state and cooperative farm enterprises.
These Councils will be responsible for the overall production plan, alloca-
tion of inputs, mechanization and marketing. Although each farming unit
will maintain its budgetary autonomy, decision on cropping patterns will be
taken at the Council level in which the directors of the member CAPs, IASs and
SMA's are represented. Establishment of the proposed Councils is currently
underway and 709 Councils, equal to the existing number of SMAs, are planned.
Whilst it is too early to assess the ability of such councils to meet their
objectives, the policy decision is certainly indicative of governments recog-
nition of the need to better utilize the resources in the agricultural sector.
In terms of boosting agricultural productivity in the cooperative sector how-
ever, the decision would equitably utilize resources viz., technical expertise,
machinery pool, technical inputs and generally better farm management.
2.07      The Government is constantly reassessing its planned investment
targets in view of resource availability and actual achievements. In December
1977, a Supplementary Program for 1976-80 to be implemented in 1979 and 1980
was approved which increased the originally planned growth rates of all major
economic indicators. This was designed, in part, to permit the original plan
targets to be achieved despite the serious interruption as a result of the
massive earthquake damage to the economy and in part to permit achievement of
the increased standards of living targets (wage, housing, etc.) announced in
July 1977. Financing for this Supplementary Program was developed out of a
1976/77 review of industrial efficiency and investment project costs which
discovered existing spare capacity in industry as well as an over estimate of
original project costs. Currently preparation for the Seventh Five Year Plan
(1981-1985) is being finalized. Based on the guidelines issued in 1975 and
subsequent refinements, Romania would pursue an agricultural investment stra-
tegy to increase land and labor productivity as a basic objective, and, more
specifically to: (a) improve the diet of the population by intensifying
production of high value crops, meat and dairy products, (b) ensure the raw
material availability for the growing food industry, (c) to expand surplus
production for export, (d) introduce capital intensive technologies to release
labor for non-farm employment, and (e) to expand irrigation facilities to
reach 4 million hectares by 1985 so as to minimize the effects of weather
failures. Actual and planned investment costs for agricultural sector is
shown in Annex 3.



D. Development Constraints and Issues
2.08      Principal factors affecting the performance of the agricultural
sector in Romania are: (a) weather fluctuations, and (b) the organization
and management structure of the production units. Government's program for
construction of storage works, and irrigation and drainage facilities would
minimize crop failures often caused by drought or floods. With respect to the
structure of agricultural organization and management the challenge facing the
Romanian agriculture is that future efforts to boost production can only be
realized with the total and equal participation of the cooperative and indi-
vidual sector in the state sector investment plan for the extension service,
introduction of technical inputs, training, access to credit facilities, and
markets. This issue appears to be adequately recognized since the marginal
return to investment in the cooperative sector is much higher than in the
state sector. However, by all technical and physical indicators, the coopera-
tive sector lags behind in production efficiency. Government's priority to
focus on the state sector was based on: (a) a conscious decision by the
Government to concentrate a major proportion of its resources on the state
sector to ensure the achievement of annual production targets; and (b) the
need to build a strong state based state economy. However, it became grad-
ually evident that Romania would have to channel more resources into the coop-
erative sector and improve its technical as well as managerial capabilities in
order to meet the objectives of maintaining adequate food and fibre supplies
and the establishment of strong sustained socialist economy. Even more, in
some agricultural activities where the individual sector is believed to have
a comparative advantage, Government is recognizing the need to exploit under-
utilized resources in the sector. Within the livestock subsector, government
has initiated a credit program for the distribution of breeds and furnishing
of veterinary services for the individual sector. Government's commitment to
the principle of partnership among state, cooperative and individual sectors
and to allocate its resources on the basis of comparative analysis of returns
from each sector is a sine qua non for exploiting the vast opportunities for
faster and higher growth of agriculture.
2.09      Whilst agriculture's state of the art is pretty much known in
Romania, the overriding bottleneck is the limited investment funds for agri-
culture. Government's priority is still in favor of the industrial sector.
Since the production potential for the expansion of irrigation facilities
exists to cover an additional 2-3 million hectares Romanian would have to
mobilize domestic resources complemented by bilateral and multilateral
assistance and borrowings from international capital markets. The economic
viability of large scale irrigation projects have been demonstrated through a
series of Bank financed sch-emes. Hence, construction of similar schemes in
the irrigated area of the Plains Zone rests on the availability of capital
since other complementary inputs such as trained manpower, and delivery system
of inputs and marketing infrastructure are already well developed.
2.10      The structure of the labor force in the agricultural sector also
poses a concern. Due to the prevalence of higher relative wages in industry
than in agriculture, there is a considerable shift of the able bodied and



younger members of the rural society to seek employment in service and indus-
trial sectors. Rises in real income in the agricultural sector have generally
lagged behind industry. As a result of this pull effect from other sectors,
the movement of the younger members of the labor force has been rising leaving
a sizable proportion of the elderly in the agricultural labor force.
E. The Poultry Sub-Sector
2.11      The Romanian poultry industry ranks just below the cattle and pig
subsectors in terms of livestock investment priority. In 1962 the first
intensive broiler complex was built which established the basis for the
expansion of an integrated breeding, broiler production and slaughterhouse
system. Between 1970 and 1975 State Breeding Enterprises first introduced egg
layer cages which increased production of layer stocks by 2.4 times and egg
numbers by 2.5 times. During the same period both the state and cooperative
sectors increased their broiler production five fold. Despite the infusion of
modern technology in the socialist sector, poultry production in Romania is
still predominantly in the individual sector in the form of small labor inten-
sive units. The distribution of eggs and broiler production among the state,
cooperative and individual sector is shown below.
EGG AND BROILER MEAT PRODUCTION
Actual                  Average
Items                                 1970   1975   1976   1977   1978   Share %
Egg Production (Millions)
Total Romania                         3537   5412   6153   6299   6757        100
State sector                           670   1561   1931   1940   1861         28
Cooperative sector                     112    486    585    605    770          9
Individual sector                     2755   1165   3637   3754   4126         63
Broiler Meat ('000 tlw)
Total Romania                          152    354    394    439    432        100
State sector                            25    106    140    156    140         32
Cooperative sector                      11      37     46      55      59      12
Individual sector                      116    211    208    118    230         56
Source: Poultry Central, MAFI
Although the individual sector produces 56% of broiler output, the size of the
output sold in the organized markets is limited to small contract deliveries
to slaughterhouses (less than 5% of requirements). Most of the output from
the individual sector is however sold in the peasant markets where prices are
about 25% higher than the official government prices. Technical assistance to



- 8 -
the individual sector is virtually non-existent with the exception of pur-
chases of day-old chicks by few farmers. However, recent policy changes for
the reorganization of agricultural production units (para. 2.06) are expected
to provide services to individual producers such as credit facilities and
contractual arrangements for supplying improved breeds in return for delivery
of broilers to slaughterhouses. Production from the state and cooperative
sectors are coordinated to meet the slaughterhouse capacities. Government's
integrated poultry program has so far primarily focused on state and coopera-
tive sectors. Individual producers traditionally raise chickens primarily
for egg production and grow surplus male chickens for home consumption on
individual plots. Surpluses are either sold on the free market or are used
for barter. Individuals are interested only in the seasonal growing of
broilers during warm months when houses equipped with heating devices for
young chickens are not required. AVICOLA has excess quantities of heating
units available for leasing to individual farmers interested in producing
broilers under contract for commercial slaughter. Generally individuals have
not shown sufficient interest in growing broilers under conditicns suitable
for AVICOLA to establish the required technical assistance to support economic
production. Disease control, provision for delivery of day-old chicks and
pick-up of grown broilers, and uniformity of broiler weight, When grown are
examples of factors associated with individual farmer production which add
significantly to AVICOLA costs unless large numbers of farmers participate in
a locality.
2.12      Feed Base and Availability.  The key to production efficiency in
poultry production inter alia is the feed conversion which is largely a func-
tion of the type and quality of feed, i.e. ratio of feed grain to protein and
vitamins. The poultry subsector competes with other livestock development
feed requirements. The primary feed base is composed of energy grain (maize
and sorghum), plant and animal proteins sources (soybean meal, sunflower,
fishmeal blood and bone meals), fat and vitamins'. From 1955 to 1977, the
total area devoted to cereals has gradually declined from 7.2 to 6.4 million
hectares largely because of the substitution of alternative crops to oats,
forage crops, sunflower and soybeans for the development of the livestock
subsector. Maize production representing the most important energy feed
increased substantially at an annual rate of 4.7% from 1960 to 1976. Such
increases in feed grains production enabled not only growth of t:he livestock
sector but also an exportable surplus of 0.34 million tons.  Production trends
of other livestock feed, however, while remaining satisfactory have not kept
pace with the incremental demand.  Romania has become self'-sufficient in sun-
flower partly due to increases in yields from 1.070 kg per ha in 1970 to 1,570
kg per ha in 1977. During the same period, soybean yields increased from 480
kg to 1,120 kg per hectares and the area under soybeans also increased from
25,000 ha to 171,000 ha. However, soybean is still sizeable which is the
single most important constraint.  Particulary with projected higher soybean
meal international prices (US$300 per ton in 1985 at constant 1979 prices) the
import bill for Romania to maintain steady growth rate of the livestock sector
would be enormous. Scarcity of foreign exchange would, however, dictate a
gradual shift of arable land from maize to soybean and sunflower. Alterna-
tively, however, Romania could bring more land for soybeans production without
adversely affecting the energy grain balance - Lfor domestic requirement as
well as maintaining some exportable surplus. Even under the lower bound



- 9 -
planned growth rates (para. 2.06) for energy grain production Romania would
achieve a positive incremental energy grain balance over incremental livestock
requirements from 1978 to 1985. In the absence of adequate availability of
protein supplies, the only option is to maintain a high feed conversion ratio
of 2.5 kg for 1 kg of meat gain which is considered the highest in the world
for poultry operation. Government is fully aware of this choice and is deter-
mined to attain self-sufficiency in soybean production by 1985.
2.13      Technology.  The most common system of broiler production is through
deep litter floor facilities. Present capacity for industrial broiler produc-
tion is estimated at 266,000 tons liveweight scattered mainly in the grain
belt. The houses for broilers are filled with litter mainly rice hulls,
cereal straw or crushed corn cobs.  Slightly less than 5 groups are produced
per house annually as facilities are emptied three to four weeks for cleaning.
The proposed project would be based on the adoption of mechanized cage system.
In recent years neighboring Hungary has introduced mechanized cages for grow-
ing broilers. This is the first large scale adoption of the system in the
world. It is believed that Hungary has evolved as one of the leading broiler
meat exporters in the World. Romania's decision to introduce the mechanized
cages for growing broilers is based on an evaluation of the efficiency of the
system vis a vis the floor system. The advantages include: (a) increased
output per unit, (b) increased labor productivity, (c) fewer number of bruised
birds or bone breakage when removing grown birds, (d) no litter is required
which reduces disease problem since birds do not come in contact with litter,
and (e) coccidostat is not required in feed.  In spite of these advantages,
however, the cage system has some technical and managerial risks. It is
possible that there would be more down grading of grown broilers due to
blisters or bone defects. An inspection of a number of slaughterhouses where
broilers from cages and floor system houses have been slaughtered revealed
that there were no apparent differences in the quality of broilers. Further-
more, bone defects can be minimized with improved diets. The other risk is
with respect to the high level managerial skills required to operate the cages.
However, the training program under the Poultry Central in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) would be adequate to provide the trained
manpower requirements.
2.14      Price Formation.  Prices of all products in Romania, at both farm-
gate/ex-factory and retail levels, are established and controlled by the
State. A major tenet of Romanian economic policy is to maintain stable price
levels. Retail prices in the aggregate increased by less than 3% over the
1971-75 period and are expected to increase by approximately 5% between 1976
and 1980. The prices of essential goods, including food products, are kept
relatively low, and retail prices of some goods, e.g. bread, have remained
unchanged since the early 1950s. Producer (supply) prices are also kept
stable over at least one planning period: between 1974-76, producer prices
were revised for the first time since 1963 to reflect changes in technology,
and internal and international costs. The basis for establishing official
prices is the cost of production plus a reasonable margin for the producing
enterprises, which for agriculture and agroindustries is considered to be
around 8-10% on production costs. The producer prices for poultry, and
indeed all farmgate prices, are officially set by the State Committee for



- 10 -
Prices, an agency established at the level of the Council of Ministers which
has a professional staff in central government and at judet levels. However,
the initial calculations and proposals for such prices are made by the Pricing
Department within MAFI, taking technical advice from the relevant production
departments into consideration. Retail prices for poultry products are also
fixed by the State Committee for Prices.
2.15      Price Levels and Marketing Margins.  State-controlled producer
prices apply to all poultry products passing through the official channels.
The official prices for cooperatives and individuals are higher than those for
State farms, however, so too are the prices of inputs, mainly the feed. The
rationale for this is not entirely clear, but at comparable performance levels
cooperatives generally show slightly lower margins than State enterprises. It
appears, therefore, that the State has chosen to tax cooperatives on the basis
of net income transfers. In addition to the "contract prices", which apply to
pre-agreed quantities of produce, "acquisition prices", are also established
to cover produce in excess of contracted quantities sold to State marketing
agencies by CAP members, individual farmers and CAPs. In the case of poultry,
"acquisition prices" are the same as "contract prices".  A large volume of
broilers are sold in the private markets by individual farmers. Prices for
poultry sold in these markets have usually been 20% to 30% higher than the
official producer prices. This price differential is lower than for pigs sold
liveweight, which average 55% above the official level, due to the consider-
ably larger proportion of total production attained by individual poultry
producers compared to the pig production of individual farmers. Distribution
or marketing margins for poultry products are 3% on average for retailers and
2% for the wholesale agency ICRA, thus totalling 5%. The levels of retail
margins in Romania are low compared to other countries. This is explained by
the low level of inputs into retailing - lack of visual display materials,
small availability of cold storage space, practically no product advertising -
and by the fact that retail outlets are totally state owned and operated.
Transport costs are also kept low by the general policy of self-sufficiency of
poultry production and consumption at the judet level.
F. Support Services
2.16      Under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Indus-
try, the agricultural sector in general and poultry subsector in particular
receive support services - technical, financial and marketing - from a number
of agencies. Activities of the poultry subsector are coordinated the Poultry
Central (AVICOLA) established in 1965. AVICOLA, from its headquarters in
Bucharest, directs 31 State poultry enterprises in about 27 Districts (Judets).
The head office has a central laboratory, Departments for Marketing, Technical
and Accounting. AVICOLA has about 10 senior staff including the Director
General and 50 support staff with responsibility for: (a) the allocation of
production quotas for each enterprise; (b) provision of technical services
in breed selection and veterinary; (c) identifying new investments; (d) coor-
dinating marketing arrangements between producers and the Ministry of Internal



- 11 -
Trade, Prodexport and Romagrimex; (e) organizing training programs study tours,
seminars for Directors and technicians for the branch offices; (f) cooperating
with other agencies in determining feed rations; and (g) operating some retail
shops and restaurants for poultry products. The branch AVICOLA's have two
lines of activities, including:  (a) broilers - breeding farms, broiler grow-
ing farms and the slaugherhouses, and (b) eggs - facilities for laying hens,
packing stations and processing of eggs. The breeding farms provide day old
chicks to state and cooperative broiler farms and a limited number to indi-
vidual farmers. Present capacity of breeding farms is inadequate to meet
the growing domestic demand for day old chicks and hatching eggs for exports.
Slaughterhouses which are the primary outlets for state and cooperative
broiler farms are also under the state poultry enterprises. The services
provided by AVICOLA in supporting poultry development and operational quality
control are quite adequate for the existing poultry industry and need to be
expanded to support planned new investments in poultry production. Laborato-
ries have modern specialized equipment and utilize the latest techniques in
applied research and operational control. AVICOLA's senior management are
well trained and experienced and keep aware of the latest poultry technology
through external exposure to the international poultry industry. Key regional
management and professional staff are kept appraised of the latest technical
development in poultry breeding and production through frequent meetings and
seminars.
2.17      Training.  Agricultural education in Romania is organized in a
national system, coordinated by the Ministries of Agriculture and Education,
to provide training for specialists and skilled workers for the agricultural
sector. Formal education consists basically of providing instruction for new
personnel and staff in-service training. Instruction starts with agricultural
gymnasiums (high schools) where students are exposed to a wide range of agri-
cultural activities, as well as being provided the opportunity to specialize.
Some of the graduates from these high schools proceed directly to production
complexes as skilled workers, while the remainder continue on to agricultural
universities. A varied in-service training program is conducted for all
levels of workers in the agricultural sector. MAFI organizes 8-week review
courses which are compulsory for all expert staff every 5 years. Similarly,
short courses are given annually for experts and skilled workers.
2.18      Veterinary Services.  Veterinary direction (technical) from MAFI
and the Poultry Central guide the Laboratory Central (Avian Pathological
Laboratory). State units that assist are: (a) The Pasteur Institute which
manufactures most vaccines for Poultry and other animals; (b) Central Labo-
ratory Diagnosis; (c) Laboratory for Biologics and Production Control of
Biologics; (d) Central Laboratory for food and feed; (e) Laboratory for Food
from feed mill trust; (f) Judet Laboratories and Judet Veterinarians. The
Laboratory Central receives periodic samples from field enterprises at fixed
times, plus weekly report of each location and a history which is very com-
plete. There are 11 field laboratories strategically located throughout
Romania which are much closer to field problems. The Laboratory Central plans
to use the field laboratories more for day to day work eventually and concen-
trate on for'more research work. Laboratory Central has 15 veterinarians



- 12 -
and a total of 65 personnel. They do tissue culture work, have specialized
equipment such as amino acid analyzer to aid them. This laboratory prepares
the blood serotypes to identify MG 1/ and MS 2/ free stock. In addition, they
have capabilities in urology, bacteriological determinations, parsitology,
histopathological, nutrition and reproduction andl genetic pathology.
2.19      Avian Tumor Laboratory receive support from MAFIs Veterinary Units
and the Poultry Central. The major activity of the Avian Tumor Virus Labo-
ratory is the production of Mareks vaccine. Tissue culture is used to produce
a cell associated type vaccine which must be kept deep frozen wit:h liquid
nitrogen.  Marek's vaccine has been manufactured in this facility in 1972.
An essential part of this program is a facility for producing SPF (Specific
Pathogen Free) eggs that is located on the grounds.  These eggs are needed for
Marek's vaccine preparation. Marek's vaccine is a recent development and
has prevented severe losses in growing layer and adult laying stock. In
other countries, Marek's vaccine is used at 1/3 dose level in broiler chicks.
A total of 30,000,000 doses are produced annually with five specialists and
nine other employess who are charged with quality control. This laboratory
is conducting experimental work on adenovirus in a joint project with Cornell
University as well as other disease research projects.
Design and Survey Institute for Construction
2.20      Within the Food Industry Department of MAFI the Design and Survey
Institute for Construction in Agriculture and the Food Industry has national
responsibility for the design of facilities required for the production and
processing of a wide range of food items. There are other organizations which
also carry out project design such as the enterprise initiating the project,
the Judet Design Institute and the specialist Centrals, such as the MIC 3/
which have design staff within the organization.  The decision on where the
project will be designed depends upon the size of the project and its com-
plexity.
2.21      The Design Institute is organized into several sections - livestock,
food industry, feed mills, accounting and administrative services. Each sec-
tion is further subdivided into sections. In the food industr-y section, for
instance, specialist sections each under the control of a chief engineer cover
such items as sugar factories, oil factories, meat and dairy processing
plants. These specialist sections in turn have particular responsibilities.
Within the meat specialist section, for instance, separate subsections cover
slaughterhouses and meat processing plants, cold storage, milk processing
plants and cheese processing plants. In its work and particularly for new
1/   Microplasma galliscepticum.
2/   Microplasma synovial.
3/   Meat Industrialization Central.



- 13 -
projects, the technology and economic aspects are subject to review by the
technical and economic departments of MAFI. A similar review is carried out
by BAFI when it wholly or partially finances such projects.
2.22      The work program for the Design Institute is planned ahead on a
yearly basis. The enterprise initiating a project must ensure that prelim-
inary planning is completed in sufficient time to get the project included in
the Institute's program for the following years It must also negotiate with
the Institute to determine the cost of the design work and the program for
completing the design phase of the project. In turn, the Institute negotiates
a design cost and time deadlines with the Project Team. Overruns on time by
the design team can result in deductions from the negotiated design cost paid
to the team. Design costs are in the range 2-3% of investment costs.
2.23      This approach to financing of detailed project design is a signifi-
cant source of the Bank's difficulties with agricultural project preparation
in Romania. The details of project preparation reports including technical
specifications and financial models is given to this institute on an ad hoc
basis and without allowance in its budget. This results in a hastily-produced
and very incomplete and unsatisfactory project preparation report. No market
demand or economic analysis is included in these preparation reports as the
Design Institute has no capability in these areas. This significantly adds to
the deficiency of project preparation reports.
2.24      Romania has agencies which are technically competent to develop the
various topics requiring coverage in project preparation, but no well deter-
mined point of responsibility for producing project preparation reports exists.
In view of Romania's corntinued need for mobilizing external resources to
finance development projects, it is recommended that MAFI establish a small
unit responsible for: (a) outlining guidelines for project preparation, (b)
contracting out the work as required to the various technical agencies, and
(c) assembling the final report insuring its comprehensiveness.
Poultry Inspection
2.25      In Romania, poultry slaughtered and processed in the industriall
slaughterhouses are required to be inspected to assure wholesome and disease
free poultry products. Inspection services include post-mortum inspection of
the carcasses as they pass on the processing chain. Inspection is performed
by qualified technicians under the supervison of a Veterinary Inspector.
Possible sources of contamination which attend a dressing operation are
eliminated or controlled. Carcasses and meat found unfit or adulterated are
condemned and sent to rendering plants for production of meal. Slaughterhouse
facilities are inspected prior to the start of each shift to assure that all
working surfaces have been properly cleaned and sanitized. The Sanitary and
Inspection standards meet the requirements of the Middle East, European Common
Market and East European countries which import poultry products from Romania.



- 14 -
G. Bank Assistance in Agriculture
2.26      The Bank has made twenty-two loans to Romania since it became a
member in December 1972, for a total lending volume of US$1,177.8 million.
Nine of these, totalling US$516.5 million, have been in agriculture, of which
four are irrigation projects, one irrigation and agricultural development
project, one agricultural credit project, one agricultural component of a
flood recovery project, and two pig production and processing projects. The
agricultural projects are supervised about twice a year and are progressing
satisfactorily with no major problems.  A brief description and the current
status of projects under supervision in the agricultural sector are summarized
below:
(a)  Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project 1082-RO:  US$70.0 million;
Board date: 1/28/75; Effective date, 5/5/75. The project will
irrigate about 100,000 ha. Crops grown include maize, barley,
soybeans, sunflower, alfalfa hay and maize silage. Progress on
this project was satisfactory. The Project Completion Date is
December 31, 1978. The loan has been fully disbursed and the
loan account has been closed. The Borrower has prepared a Proj-
ect Completion Report.
(b)  Sadova Corabia Agricultural Credit Project 1083-RO:  US$30.0
million; Board date, 1/28/75; Effective date 4/29/75.  The
project provides for a wide range of on-farm investments
under an existing irrigation scheme, including orchard and
vineyard production, livestock/dairy production, agro-
industrial development and technical assistance. Implementa-
tion progress is satisfactory. Disbursements are running
about 15% ahead of schedule, and the project is likely to be
completed by 1983.
(c)  Flood Recovery Project 1169-RO:  US$40.0 million; Board date,
11/4/75; Effective date 12/2/75. The project provides for
rehabilitation, drainage and flood control works, establish-
ment of an early warning system for floods, and provision of
agricultural credit to farms affected by the mid-1975 floods.
All 248 subprojects for rehabilitation and repair of the irri-
gation, drainage and flood control systems have been completed.
The completion date has been extended by one year to June 30,
1980 to allow for completion of the flood warning system
component.
(d)  Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
1247-RO:  US$60.0 million; Board date 4/27/76; Effective date
11/3/76.  In this project construction of irrigation facilities
and credit for on farm dairy cattle investments are combined in
a single project. Irrigation works will supply water over about
65,000 ha for the production of feedgrains (maize, barley), soy-
beans, sunflower, alfalfa hay, and maize silage, as well as wheat,



- 15 -
vegetables, fruits, and grapes. Other project components are 11
dairy units including 9,130 imported heifers, 2 beef fattening
units, 1 grain storage silo, 1 feedmill, and 17 rural water supply
schemes. Under the irrigation component works are progressing
satisfactorily. Under the agricultural development component,
physical facilities at 4 dairy farms are finished, the feedmill
and silo are 62% completed and contracts for all equipment and
imported heifers have been awarded.
(e) Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project 1368-RO: US$60.0 million;
Board date, 2/17/77; Effective date, 6/23/77. The project will
irrigate about 148,000 ha for production of feedgrains, oil/
protein crops, and forages. Progress on construction of the
irrigation infrastructure is satisfactory.
(f) Pig Production and Processing Project 1479-RO: US$71.0 million;
Board date, 7/12/77; Effective date, 9/15/77. The project
represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a devel-
opment plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the devel-
opment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and
selection centers, expansion of industrialized swine production,
and provision of slaughtering and processing facilities. Proj-
ect implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements
are running ahead of appraisal estimates. 1977 commitments are
expected to generate an incremental output of 1.13 million pigs
in 1979 and about 1.65 million pigs in 1980 and thereafter. The
1978 project investment list has been finalized and commitments
are over 80% of the total investment cost. ICB determined con-
tracts of $43 million total over 60% of the loan amount and ICB
tender documents for another $30 million of slaughter house equip-
ment are now issued. Supervision missions have been uniformly
favorable in their findings on detail of project implementation
leaving no doubt as to the eventual success of the project.
(g) Viisoara Irrigation Project 1509-RO: US$40.5 million; Board
date, 2/19/78; Effective date, 5/15/78. The project will provide
irrigation and drainage facilities over about 110,000 ha for pro-
duction of maize, sugar beet, vegetables and fruits, soybeans,
alfalfa hay, maize silage, and other fodders. Progress on con-
struction of irrigation and drainage works is satisfactory.
(h) Livestock II Project 1669-RO; US$75.0 million; Board date,
04/20/79; Effective date, July 16, 1979. The project will be
the second Pig Project assisted by the Bank. Main features
of the project are: (a) continued expansion of large scale
pig production units, (b) additional production of hybrid
gilts for breeding, (c) financing new and modernized slaughter-
ing and processing plants to meet export market hygiene stand-
ards, (d) providing credit facilities to individual farmers
for pig production, and (e) improving nutrition related pig
production coefficients through applied research.



- 16 -
(i)  Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project 1670-RO
US$70 million; Board date, 04/20/70, Effective date,
The project will provide irrigation and drainage facilities in
158,000 ha in the Mostistea Valley, 23,000 ha in the Calmatui
Valley, and only drainage facilities in 41,500 ha in the
Calmatui Valley. Preliminary project works have been initiated
in the field.
III. THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
A. Overview I/
3.01      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is a State-owned
credit institution established in 1968 to finance and supervise investments
and operations in agriculture and agroindustries. The Administrative Council
is BAFI's policy-making body. Between the sessions of the Administrative
Council, the Executive Bureau acts as the decision-making body. BAFI's opera-
tions are carried out by 39 branches, 92 sub-branches and about 850 credit
cooperatives which serve as BAFI's agents for small-scale lending. Enter-
prises of national importance are served by the three operational departments
in the head office (agroindustries, cooperative sector and state sector).
B. Fiscal Agency Operations
3.02      One of BAFI's most important functions is that of financial agent
for State investments in agriculture and agroindustries. BAFI reviews and is
empowered to require changes in proposed development plans, disburses accord-
ing to approved plans, supervises implementation with particular emphasis on
adherence to appraisal estimates and plan targets, and collects depreciation
payments 2/ and net incomes for the State budget account. BAFI is paid a
commission for this service at the rate of 0.5% of the investment channelled
through it. Over the past several years, State equity contributions for
investments disbursed by BAFI were as follows:
1/   Additional details and BAFI's organization chart are given in the Project
Implementation File, Annex 3.
2/   Depreciation charges are assessed on capital inputs on the basis of cost
and the legal life of each item, to provide for full cost recovery and
accumulate savings for future investments.



- 17 -
FY                           Million Lei                 1970-100
1970                            27,077                      100
1973                            39,471                      146
1976                            70,598                      261
1977                            93,445                      345
1978 (est.)                     97,100                      356
In terms of their relative importance, net investments financed with State
equity channelled through BAFI were equivalent to about 31% of BAFI's total
assets at the end of 1978.
C. Financing Policies and Procedures
3.03      BAFI makes short, medium and long-term loans to the cooperative
sector and to a limited degree of individual borrowers (coop-members and pri-
vate farmers). Short-term capital requirements of State enterprises are
financed mainly by equity contribution (State budget allocations channelled
through BAFI) and partly by BAFI production credits. Long-term investments
in State enterprises are likewise generally financed with equity from the
State budget channelled through BAFI.
3.04      Loans are primarily secured by "credit engagements" of borrowers,
who commit all present and future income to debt service and are obliged to
maintain all their financial assets in BAFI settlement (deposit) accounts.
Under BAFI policy, short-term credit extended to cooperatives cannot exceed
60% of the contracted value of the commodity whose costs are being financed,
and interest and principal repayments are deducted from the borrowers'
accounts when sales proceeds are realized. Though no bad debt has been
recorded by BAFI to date, Government on February 3, 1979, announced that
measures to cancel or reduce debts which come to more than 13 billion lei
were necessary because some units have been unable to repay their state
loans and obligations over the years due to nonfulfillment of agricultural
output. BAFI subsequently indicated that these were for the most part very
old debts resulting primarily from loans to Agricultural Associations which
were renamed and organized about 1963 as CAPs. The law provides that in the
event a liquidity problem should arise, BAFI's claims have priority vis-a-vis
other debts.
D. Sources of Funds
3.05      The various sources of the funds channelled through BAFI as of the
end of 1978 were the State budget (35%), 1/ short term loans from the National
1/   Balance sheet items included under this category are the "Fund for short
term credits", the "Fund for medium- and long-term credits", accounts
payable to the State budget, and the State budget investment account
administered by BAFI.



- 18 -
Bank of Romania (53%), deposits of State enterprises and cooperatives (6%),
BAFI's statutory capital and reserves (2%), and IBRD borrowings (4%) 1/.
BAFI has no other foreign debt.  BAFI's on-lending interest rates for invest-
ments under the proposed project will vary from 3 to 4% depending on the type
of the borrowing entity. Although these rates are lower than the interest
rate which BAFI will bear on the Bank's loan, the overall average spread on
BAFI's total loans is positive (about 1.7%) due to other sources of funds
which have lower effective costs. BAFI is currently pursuing cofinancing
possibilities for the Bank financed projects including this proposed project
on medium-term basis. However, no major shifts in relative importance among
these financing sources are expected during the period up to the end of 1985.
E. Financial Conditions
3.06      RAFI's financial condition is strong and is expected tc remain so
through 1985. The balance sheet reveals a prudent matching of assets lives
with financing sources. Net worth is about 2% of total assets, a ratio that
is similar to those of Western commercial banks and adequate in relation to
the low proportion of BAFI's repayable long-term debt, 2/ the low volatility
of BAFI's revenues and deposits, and the quality of its asset portfolio
relative to loan default risk.
IV. THE PROJECT
Concept
4.01      The project represents a four year time slice for the poultry pro-
duction and processing programs in Romania, of which 1 year will be out of
the 1976-80 Plan and 3 years out of the 1981-85 National Development Plan.
This project would be a major input in realizing the planned poultry meat
production necessary toward meeting the domestic demand. Specific project
objectives are:
(a) breeding of high quality broiler parent: stock for production
of day-old broilers for stocking IAS, CAP and individual
growing units;
(b) continued expansion of broiler growing units utilizing
mechanized cage system;
1/   Details of BAFI financial structure and operations are included in the
Project Implementation File, Annex 3.
2/   Consists entirely of eight IBRD loans.  It is expected that the ratio
of repayable long-term debt to net worth will peak at 4.4:1 in 1981 and
thereafter decline.



- 19 -
(c) provide new and modernized poultry slaughterhouses as part
of the integrated poultry production system; and
(d) provision of specialized laboratory equipment including
training in its use and pure line infusion with imported
pedigreed stock essential to support the expanded, national
poultry investment program. The equipment and pedigreed stock
would also be used in supporting the improvement of poultry
health and performance standards.
Composition
4.02      The investment planned are (i) 37 broiler breeding farms, each with
an average annual capacity to produce 6,550,000 day-old chicks. Each farm
would consist of 18 two-story masonry houses, a hatchery and supporting utility
facilities; (ii) modernization of 20 existing broiler production farms increas-
ing the capacity of each unit by an average incremental output of about 2,400
tons of liveweight broilers per year. Each farm would consist of six one-story
masonry houses which would be renovated and equipped with 14 rows of mechanized
cages (54 cages long, 2 cases wide and 4 cages high) or provisions for 6,048
cages total; (iii) 28 new, mechanized broiler production farms each with an
average capacity of 4,100 tons per year. Each farm would consist of 12 one-
story masonry houses plus supporting utility facilities and each house would
be equipped with 8 rows of mechanized cages (54 cages long, 2 cages wide,
and 4 cages high) or provisions for 3,456 cages total; (iv) 15 new poultry
slaughterhouses, with a kill rate of 1,000 chickens (1.5 kg each) per hour
or an average annual throughput of about 3,750 ton liveweight poultry on the
basis of single shift operation. Each slaughterhouse would be a single-story
masonry building divided into receiving, slaughtering, processing, packing and
cold storage areas. Plant design would meet international sanitary standards.
Separate by-product processing and utility services facilities would be
included in the complex; (v) provision of specialized equipment, including
training for its use, to be used in quality control, applied research, disease
isolation, identification and control, and performance standards improvements.
It would include provisions for infusion of current pure line breeding stock
with imported pedigreed stock. For additional details see para. 7.05.
The timely receipt of specialized laboratory equipment and imported pedigreed
breeding stock are essential to support the implementation of the project which
contributes significantly to the expansion of poultry production in Romania.
Delays in acquiring and subsequent use could have an effect on improving poul-
try health and performance standards. BAFI has provided the Bank AVICOLA's
technical assistance program including laboratory equipment, training and
imported pedigreed stock requirements by year for the years 1980-1983. The
location of investment subprojects included under the project, and the year
in which these investments would be made are given in Annex 7, Tables 1-5.
4.03      BAFI would make subloans to State Enterprises and Cooperatives
for buildings, utilities, equipment, slaughtering and processing equipment,
vehicles, feed storage units and quality breeding stock. Funds would be



- 20 -
made available through BAFI to acquire quality control and laboratory equip-
ment and to continue program of breed quality through infusion of pure lines
from abroad. During negotiations assurances were obtained that project
features as described above would be carried out.
V.  PROJECTS COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
5.01      Total project cost is estimated at Lei 5,605 million (lJS$311.4 mil-
lion) of which the foreign exchange component is Lei 1,965 million (US$109.2
million) or about 35%. These estimates, summarized below, include US$0.4
million taxes and import duties on items expected to be directly imported
under the project.
5.02      The cost estimates are based on prices projected to be prevailing at
the end of 1979. An allowance of 5% is included for physical contingencies.
Price contingency allowances are 1% per annum for 1980 through 1984 on all
domestic components and 6.0% annually on foreign exchange components for 1980
through 1984. The exchange rate used in estimating project costs is the
Romanian officially determined trading rate of Lei 18 to US$1. This rate is
expected to remain stable.



- 21 -
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Foreign                      Foreign               %
Local   Exchange   Total   Local   Exchange   Total   F.E.
------(Lei Million)-----   -----(US$ Million)-----
Investments
Slaughterhouses
State enterprises  538.0       167.4    705.4    29.9         9.3       39.2  23.7
Broiler production
units
State enterprises  497.8       285.8    783.6    27.6        15.9       43.5  36.5
Cooperatives        457.7      262.7    720.4    25.5        14.6       40.1  36.5
Broiler moderniza-
tion units
Cooperatives        417.6      333.4    751.0    23.2        18.5       41.7  44.4
Broiler breeding
units
State enter-
prises            1,537.2      562.5  2,099.7    85.4        31.2      116.6  26.8
Technical
assistance             -        36.0      36.0       -        2.0        2.0 100.0
Subtotal           3,448.3   1,647.8  5,096.1   191.6         91.5      283.1  32.3
Contingency
Allowances
Physical (5%)        100.9      46.0    146.9       5.6       2.6        8.2  31.7
Price /1              90.4     271.2    361.6       5.0      15.1       20.1  75.1
Subtotal              191.3     317.2    508.5    10.6        17.7       28.3  62.5
Total              3,639.6   1,965.0  5,604.6   202.2    109.2          311.4  35.1
/1   The following expected inflation rates (in percent per annum) were used
in determining price contingencies for the project costs:
Foreign Exchange Component       Local Component
1980                                     6.0                    1.0
1981-1984                                6.0                    1.0



- 22 -
B. Project Financing
5.03      The financing plan for the Project is shown below:
Cofinanciers      Sub-
IBRD       BAFI        borrowers   Total
Investments
Slaughterhouses
State enterprises                       152.2      611.6              -      763.8
Broiler production units
State enterprises                       266.5      604.5              -      871.0
Cooperatives                            245.1      316.0           239.9     801.0
Broiler modernization units
Cooperatives                            302.9       274.8          247.0     824.7
Broiler breeding units
State enterprises                       527.3    1,780.8              -    2,308.1
Technical assistance                      36.0          -              -        36.0
Total:  Lei million                    1,530.0    3,587.7           486.9   5,604.6
Total:  US$ million                       85.0       199.3           27.1      311.4
Percentage of Total
Project Cost                              27.3        64.0            8.7      100
5.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$85 million would cover 27.3% of the
total project cost or 78.0% of the foreign exchange cost. The subborrowers'
contribution would amount to 8.7% of the project cost. The remaining 64.0%
of project cost would be financed by the Government (BAFI) and the co-
financiers. 1/ The financing plan is illustrated above. State-owned enter-
prises would not be required to contribute to their own investment costs.
Cooperative enterprises would continue to contribute about 30% of their
investment costs.
5.05      The Bank loan would be for 15 years including 3 years grace.  Terms
of the co-financiers' loans are not yet determined but are likely to be more
stringent than the Bank terms. Assurances on the loan terms and sources of
financing in paras. 5.03 and 5.04 were obtained during negotiations.
1/   With assistance from the Bank, BAFI has been sounding out various insti-
tutions for co-financing possibilities, some of which have indicated
interest in participating as co-financiers. No serious problems in
arranging for co-financing are envisaged at this state. BAFI has indi-
cated that it might try to obtain US$100 million from co-financiers to
finance this project.



- 23 -
VI. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Meat Consumption
6.01       In the past, domestic consumption of fresh meat has been deli-
berately suppressed due to Government's policy to give priority to investments
for production of products for export to earn much needed scarce foreign
exchange. This is further evidenced by the Livestock II Project (Loan 1669-
RO) which is heavily focused on producing pork for the export market. In
contrast, the proposed project is the first step by Government solely financed
to improve the level of meat consumption in Romania. In the absence of this
project the choices facing Romania are twofold: (a) to continue sacrificing
local demand and maintain the present low level of meat consumption (or reduce
it with rising population); or (b) to forego exports of beef and/or pork and
continue Government policy commitment to improve the availability of meat for
domestic consumption. Both options would be unacceptable to Government
and would be unpopular amongst the Romanians. Government therefore assigns
this project a high priority in its development plans.
6.02       Romanian consumption of meat, particularly poultry and pork, has
increased considerably over the past decade. Per capita annual total meat
consumption in Romania increased from about 28 kg in 1966 to about 53 kg in
1978 - an increase of 87%. During the same period poultry consumption has
approximately doubled, and now stands at about 21% of total meat consumption
as compared to about 18% in 1970.
Table       DOMESTIC MEAT CONSUMPTION 1966-78
(carcass basis)
1966          1970          1975           1978
1000   kg/   1000   kg/   1000   kg/   1000   kg/
ton    cap   ton    cap   ton    cap   ton    cap
Poultry                         n.a.   n.a.  122       6.0  170    8.0   241   11.0
Pigmeat                         247    12.9  275    13.5  458   21.5   548   25.0
Beef and veal                   153     8.0  203    10.0  256   12.0   285   13.0
Others                          142      7.5   81      4.0   85    4.0    88    4.0
Total                           542    28.4  681    33.5  969   45.5 1,162   53.0
6.03       Notwithstanding significant gains made in recent years, comparisons
of per capita consumption of total meat and poultry meat in Romania and other
Eastern European countries having similar tastes and income levels reveal a
generally lower consumption level in Romania. Relative to other countries
per capita meat and poult-ry consumption in Romania was below EC-9 averages
(1977) by 30% and 25% respectively (Annex 4, Table 2). Despite an increasing
availability in the domestic market, there is still a shortage of fresh meat,
with demand exceeding supply at present prices. Evidence of excess domestic



- 24 -
demand for poultry meat is the fact that the price of poultry in the free
market is about 25% higher than the official price. The existing potential
for increasing supply is further indicated by a considerably higher income
elasticity for poultry meat than for all types of meat (0.9 versus 0.6 as per
FAO estimates for Romania).
6.04       In view of the current relatively low per capita meat and poultry
meat consumption, the expected growth in real income and the unsatisfied
demand for meat--particularly poultry--the Government is giving increased
attention to consumer issues. The current (1976-80) and the next Five Year
Plan (1981-85), which include the proposed project, reflect this priority in
meeting consumers demand. The 1981-85 Plan proposes expansion of domestic
supplies of food commodities, and particularly meat, to provide a planned
20-30% increase in meat consumption per capita over this period.
6.05       Real incomes are projected to grow about 32% over the present plan
period (1976-80). For the next Five Year plan (1981-85), the initial Party
guidelines are based on a growth of income of 18 to 20%. Historically,
preliminary Party guidelines for the past Plans have been conservative but in
view of the actual growth in real wages during 1976-78, it is unlikely that
the growth for the 1981-85 period will be less than that actually achieved for
1976-80. Consequently, 32% is assumed to be the rate of growth of real wages
between 1981 and 1985. This is equivalent to an annual growth rate of about
6%. The projected increase in population (5.5% over the periocl 1980-85),
coupled with the expected growth in real wages is consistent with the esti-
mated growth of poultry meat production (6% per year) for the 1981-85 period
indicated by the production allocation of the next Five Year plan.
Poultry Consumption
6.06       Poultry represents an important component of the Romanian diet.
Along with eggs, milk and other meat products, it provides an important
source of high grade protein in a diet marked by a relatively low intake of
animal protein (Annex 4, Table 7).
6.07       Poultry's share in the total meat consumption per capita has
increased from 18% to 21% over the 1970-78 period; this is projected to
increase to 23% in 1980 and to 25% in 1985. Total meat consumption per
capita is expected to increase by 20% from about 61 kg in 1980 to 73 kg by
1985. The average growth rate for poultry meat per capita consumption has
been about 8% per year over the 1970-78 period while total meat: consumption
has increased at about 6%. Of the total poultry meat consumed, broilers
represented about 90% while other poultry meat accounted for 10%. By 1985 per
capita consumption of poultry meat is projected to increase to 18 kg, or 64%
above the estimated per capita consumption in 1978. The annual rate of growth
in per capita consumption of poultry meat is expected to average 7.3% in the
1978/85 period, which is lower than the growth rate achieved over the 1970/78
period (about 8%), but which is considerably higher than the projected average
annual growth rate of 4.7% for total meat per capita consumption over the
1978/85 period. Broiler meat will provide 98% of the total incremental
poultry meat production through 1985.



- 25 -
6.08       Individual producers' share of the total broiler production has
decreased from 72% in 1971 to 54% in 1978, mainly due to the introduction
of large modern integrated broiler producing complexes by state enterprises
and cooperatives. By 1985, following the further expansion of such facili-
ties, individual producers' share of total broiler production is expected to
decrease to 36%.
6.09       Total poultry production is estimated at 474,000 tons in 1978
and is expected to reach about 510,000 tons in 1979. Based on the production
expansion envisaged by the 1981-85 Plan, which includes the proposed project,
total domestic supply of poultry meat will increase to 717,000 tons by 1985.
6.10       The proposed projet will supply 63% of the incremental broiler pro-
duction through 1985, making a major contribution towards fulfillment of the
unsatisfied demand. At full production (1987), the project would produce 102
million broilers annually or about 157,000 tons (liveweight basis), which
would amount to about 23% of the total domestic production.
Exports
6.11       Meat exports have grown significantly over the past 8 years, from
about 60,000 tons in the 1970-71 period to about 200,000 tons in 1977. This
growth was due mainly to increased export of beef, pork and canned meat which
together account for about 86% of the total exported volume.
6.12       Poultry exports have averaged 13,000 tons in the last 3 years,
and were directed mostly to Eastern European and Middle East countries.
6.13       The incremental poultry production from the project will be mostly
absorbed by the domestic market. Although total meat exports are expected to
reach between 300,000-350,000 tons annually over the 1980/85 period, poultry
meat exports will only contribute about 3% to 5% of this total averaging
10,000 to 15,000 tons annually, which, converted to liveweight basis, will
represent only about 2%-3% of the estimated total domestic poultry production.
6.14       Export markets for poultry meat have historically shown wide fluc-
tuations according to a continuously changing worldwide supply and demand
pattern. Neither a clear nor an apparent pattern has been detected regarding
both internationally traded volumes and prices. Considering that the incre-
mental Romanian poultry production is almost exclusively geared to meet
domestic consumption and that the small volumes expected to be exported
represent only around 1.5% of the total annual tonnage traded internationally
in the recent past (about 800,000-850,000 tons) it is concluded that the
Romanian authorities would have little difficulty in finding export markets
for poultry, in case they decide to export a small percentage of the incre-
mental project production.
Conclusions
6.15       Main objectives of the project are to increase production of poultry
meat primarily for the domestic market through the improvement of breed quality,
feed conversion ratios, production efficiency and hygiene and disease control.



- 26 -
6.16      The analysis of the market and of the demand and supply pattern
indicates that no marketing problems are to be expected. The incremental
production will mostly supply the domestit market and very small export
volumes are anticipated, which will represent an insignificant proportion
of total international poultry meat exports.
VII. TECHNOLOGY, RESEARCH AND PLANT LOCATION
Production Technology
7.01      [he bagic production technology associated with integrated p"oultry
breeding and broiler production is well understood in Romania. The sc:le of
integratedl operation has grown substantially since industrialized poultry
production was introduced in 1962. Changes in feeding and growing systems,
housing, ration formulation and breed selection methodology have taken place
with the aim of improving efficiency and meeting the continuously expanding
demand of a developing economy. Recent introduction of the mechanized cage in
broiler growing units will increase poultry output 3.3 times over the tradi-
tional deep litter production system in the same size houses.
7.02      The mechanized cage system for broiler production has undergone
extensive prototype, pilot and operational testing and a number of engineering
improvements have been incorporated into the commercial equipment design.
New facilities incorporating modifications to growing houses and improvements
in equipment are being constructed as part of the 1978 and 1979 investment
programs. Investments under the proposed project which would be initiated in
1980 would include the latest proven design features in both civil works and
equipment construction.
Feed Quality and Nutrition
7.03      The State Central for Feed Mills under the direction of the MAFI
is responsible for formulating and producing livestock feed. The Poultry
Central through its applied research and feed testing programs advises the
Feed Mill Central on quantity and quality of specific formula components
desirable to achieve maximum feed conversion efficiency. However, due to the
lack of availability of specific components either due to lower than expected
yields or Government decision not to import, feed formula are frequently
adjusted to produce poorer quality feed. Research support feeding tests show
that significantly better feed conversion ratios can be achieved with better
quality feed. The present standard poultry feed formula is designed to pro-
vide 1.0 kg body weight gain to 2.5 kg feed intake. Feed is not the only
variable which determine the rate at which the chicken converts feed to body
gain. Genetics and pure line selection methods in grandparent and parent
stock, disease control and management contribute to feed conversion ratios.
Romania has a well developed and managed basic breeding and selection program
based on imported pure lines of quality pedigreed lines. As a result of
precise and careful attention to the various selection programs, sanitary



- 27 -
methods, vaccination programs, infusion of pure lines with new pedigreed lines
and grandparent matings, Romania produces quality day-old chickens which have
the capability to convert feed according to international standards of 1.9-2.1
kg feed per 1.0 kg body weight gain. Romania successfully competes in inter-
national trade of fertilized broiler eggs and day-old chicks, which are
purchased according to specifications that include the broilers ability to
convert about 2.0 kg feed per kg body weight gain during the growing period.
7.04      Under the broiler production and modernization components of the
project, the standard feed formula for growing broilers would be upgraded to
include ingredients with higher quality protein supplements than presently
being used. Also, the formula would be adjusted to increase energy source
feedstuffs particularly during the later stages of growing. The Poultry
Central and Feed Mill Central have adequate knowledge and experience to
formulate and produce poultry rations that the poultry breeds available in
Romania can efficiently convert 2.3 kg of feed into 1 kg of body weight. This
improved nutrition would increase the incremental yield of broiler by about
15% in the same growing period by adding about 6% more feed of higher nutri-
tional quality.  Assurances to the foregoing were obtained during negotiations.
Technical Assistance
7.05      Under the project, US$2.0 million would be provided to strengthen
the applied research and quality control programs necessary to support the
expanded integrated, national, poultry investment program.  The items financed
and their specific objectives are:
(i) Avian Pathological and Avian Tumor Virus Laboratories would be
strengthened to service integrated poultry units. Provisions
would be included to purchase new and improved scientific
equipment to support digestible energy, protein, amino acid,
mineral and vitamin studies. Specialized imported equipment
necessary to support quality control effort in urology,
bacteriological determinaticns, parasitology, histopathology,
nutrition, and reproduction and genetic pathology. Also spe-
cialized equipment used in disease detection and countrol would
be included.
(ii) Specialized laboratory slaughtering equipment would be included
to check on traits found in broilers not now part of the breed-
ing program with the aim to improve quantity and quality of
dressed poultry meat. Factors to be measured include dressing
percentage, meat to bone ratio, percent of major parts to
carcass weight, and percent of fat. Handling and processing
techniques would also be investigated in such facilities to
reduce the number of carcasses being down graded in quality
during slaughtering.



- 28 -
(iii) As part of the long range decision to produce poultry in indus-
trialized complexes, Romania imported pure line pedigreed poul-
try from several external sources and breed their own pure
line stock. Long-term contracts with suppliers have been main-
tained for the past ten years to continuously infuse pedigreed
stock into the Romanian pure lines to maintain high quality
breeding stock. Included under the project, would be provi-
sions to not only continue the purchase of external pedigreed
parent stock to maintain the quality of the existing national
flock but also to introduce specific traits such as more
disease resistant poultry and other desirable characteristics
as feed conversion efficiency, resistance to breasts bruises,
better bone structure, and better yields.
(iv) Although the Pasteur Institute has extensive capability to
produce vaccines, the additional capacity is necessary to
support the investment program. Also, with greater emphasis
being placed on poultry health including the introduction of
the MG and MS free poultry stock, new types of vaccine would
need to be purchased or produced. As a result provisions
would be included to purchase new vaccine production equip-
ment and vaccines.
(v) Included in the project would be a provison for external train-
ing of professional and technical staff in new poultry breeding,
quality control and laboratory techniques.
Slaughtering and Processing Plant Location
7.06      The national integrated poultry breeding, production and processing
program has been developed on a judet basis. Such a system provides for
furnishing poultry meat to the consumer in a fresh and wholesome state. Move-
ment of live broilers over long distances effects yield and increases the
number of dead birds upon arrival due to disease and suffocation. However,
under the development program, some poultry will be transported relatively
short distances to facilities presently underutilized. Poultry slaughtering
under the project will be on a two shift per day six days a week basis to
fully utilize the slaughtering and processing capacities. The total national
slaughtering capacity has been balanced against broiler and hen production
through 1985 and sufficient capacity will be available to process the incre-
mental production from the project. Additional slaughtering facilities
beyond those agreed under the project would be constructed in judets where
existing slaughtering capacity is insufficient or non-existent.



- 29 -
VIII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
8.01      BAFI would be the Borrower under guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, and individual subprojects would be implemented by State Enter-
prises and Cooperatives after thorough appraisal by MAFI and BAFI. As with
previous Bank projects in agriculture in Romania this project would be admin-
istered by BAFI through its 39 district branches. BAFI would be responsible
for overall project management and monitoring. BAFI is very experienced in the
management of Bank projects. The Pig Production and Processing Projects which
are similar in scope to the proposed project are being implemented smoothly
and so general management of this project is expected to be satisfactory.
8.02      BAFI branches would be responsible for directly supervising the
financial and administrative execution of the subjects, with technical assis-
tance from MAFI, particularly AVICOLA who also has ultimate operational
responsibility for integrated poultry and egg production throughout the
country. BAFI would meet project expenditures from a special project account
which would receive funds from the State budget and from disbursements under
the proposed Bank loan.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
8.03      BAFI would examine all proposals for subprojects to be financed
under the project with a view towards determining their technical feasibility
and financial viability. Detailed subproject investment proposals would be
submitted to the branches or to BAFI's head office, depending upon their cost-
scale, in accordance with normal BAPI procedure and subloan approval authority
delegation. All subproject investment proposals would have to be cleared by
the responsible MAFI agency before review by BAFI. BAFI would prepare an
individual summary analysis for each investment subproject, including key
operating and investment indicators. For subprojects involving total fixed
investment costs of 70 million lei (US$3.9 million) or more, BAFI would submit
the individual summaries to the Bank for approval prior to any disbursement
for these. For subprojects involving total fixed investment costs below 70
million lei, BAFI would submit individual summaries to the Bank for approval,
prior to any disbursement, of representative investment subprojects for the
following: (a) the first two slaughterhouses; (b) the first two new broiler
production units (1 State Enterprise and 1 Cooperative); (c) the first two
broiler modernization units; (d) the first two broiler breeding units. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that analysis of these subprojects
would be undertaken according to a format acceptable to BAFI and the Bank
during negotiations.



- 30 -
C. On-Lending Terms
8.04      On the basis of model analysis, the lending terms necessary for
state enterprises investments under the project would be up to 19 years includ-
ing 3 years grace. Current lending regulations for loan terms to State enter-
prises are up to 10 years.  As under previous projects, BAFI would have the
flexibility to make automatic roll over adjustments required for subproject
implementation. Lending terms for Cooperative Enterprises would be up to 15
years including a maximum grace period of 3 years.  BAFI would also provide
medium-term loans to cover interest costs during construction. Funds for
research in poultry breeding and diseases and for training which are the
responsibility of MAFI would be transferred to MAFI and later repaid directly
to BAFI from the State budget on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
and contained in a memorandum, describing this process, to be obtained during
negotiations.
8.05      Interest rates would be the same as those charged by BAFI for
similar investments and those adopted for onlending under previous Bank
financial project. Medium-term loans extended to IASs and CAPs would be at
4% and 3% p.a. respectively. Interest on investment subloans to IASs would
be 2% p.a. during construction and 4% p.a. after start of operations; subloans
to CAPs would be at a uniform 3% p.a. The weighted average interest rate on
total (medium and long-term) BAFI loans made under the project would be about
3.7% p.a. and BAFI's financial and administrative costs of providing these
loans would be about 3.5% p.a., so that BAFI would cover its costs under the
project.
8.06      As a result of central controls over domestic prices, Romania main-
tains domestic inflation rate on retail prices of about 1% per year and it is
expected to continue through the end of the 1980-85 Five-Year Plan. This 1%
annual rate of increase takes into account the past increases in building and
equipment costs since 1963.  Because of the step-function nature of such
increases in the past, no significant further increase is anticipated during
project implementation. The total project cost estimate includes a price
contingency on local costs calculated at 1% p.a. Insulation of the domestic
economy from world inflation is expected to continue in the future.  In view
of the above, BAFI lending operations under the project would be performed at
real interest rate that are positive and expected to remain so during repay-
ment of subloans. More generally, interest rates play no role in the allo-
cation of resources or in influencing individual investment decisions in
Romania's socialist sector. Lastly, the level of interest rates does not
influence the level of capital intensity employed in investments, since
project design and technology choices are standardized by the Ministry of
Agriculture's Design Institute and applied in all investment projects nation-
wide. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BAFI would implement
the project lending policies, procedures and terms described above.



- 31 -
D. Procurement
8.07      In Romania, all civil works are constructed by Romanian State-owned
construction enterprises who are experienced and familiar with local condi-
tions, methods and regulations. Facilities similar to those proposed under
the project are being constructed according to detailed specifications pre-
pared by the central design institute and have proved to be well designed and
constructed. Civil works construction and installation of equipment would be
carried out under contract by Romanian construction enterprises. The foreign
exchange component of equipment and materials required for the project is
estimated to cost US$109.2 million, including contingencies. Items costing
US$83.0 million would be procured by Romagrimex under ICB in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines and goods costing US$2.0 million would be procured
under prudent international shopping by soliciting bids from at least three
countries. These items include construction materials, laboratory equipment,
biological products and slaughterhouse equipment and are detailed in Annex 1.
Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a 15% preference margin or the applic-
able customs duty, whichever is lower in the procurement of goods. Romanian
manufacturers are highly competitive and it is anticipated that foreign sup-
pliers would be awarded contracts for only US$3.8 million for slaughterhouse
and laboratory equipment not made in Romania and for imported pedigreed
poultry stock. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement
of items specified in the list of goods would be obtained through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
E. Disbursements
8.08      Bank disbursements would extend over an estimated 5-year period
although the entire loan is expected to be committed by the end of the second
year. The annual phasing of commitments and investments and the forecast of
quarterly disbursements are shown in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3, respectively.
Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan of US$85 million would be as follows:
Category                                          % of BAFI Loans to be Financed
Disbursements
(a)  for construction of breeding units                          30
(b)  for construction of slaughterhouses                         30
(c) for construction of new broiler
production units                                            30
(d) for modernization of broiler
production units                                            30
% of Expenditures to be Financed
Goods and services for Technical Assistance
Component                                                       100 FE



- 32 -
Disbursement under Category 1 will be made against certificates of expenditure,
the documentation for which is not submitted for review but is retained by the
Borrower and made available for inspection during the course of Bank and
co-financier supervision missions (Annex 8).
F. Accounts and Audit
8.09      The existing accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are quite
strict and satisfactory.  BAFI's accounts are subject to audit by internal
inspectors and an annual audit by inspectors from the Ministry of Finance and
the Court of Superior Control.  The Court, which reports directly to the
President of the country, conducts an independent audit of BAFI's accounts and
of results of audits by inspectors from the Ministry of Finance.  BAFI's sub-
missions of audited accounts have been received promptly and were satisfactory.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that BAFI would submit to the
Bank an annual audit report satisfactory to the Bank within 6 months of the
close of the fiscal year.
8.10      BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures,
including those related to goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the proposed Bank loan. These accounts would be audited according to
existing procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such
project expenditure account satisfactory to the Bank and available to Bank
supervision missions would be kept by BAFI and that a report on the project
accounts, including reimbursements requested against certificate of expendi-
ture, audited by the Ministry of Finance, would be submitted to the Bank
annually within 6 months of the close of the fiscal year.
G. Monitoring
8.11      BAFI maintains detailed records by borrowers of financial and pro-
duction results relative to subproject appraisal expectations which it uses in
its subproject supervision. In order to measure overall progress of project
implementation in relation to objectives, goals, and schedules established for
each component, BAFI would submit quarterly reports to the Bank within 45 days
of the close of each quarter. These reports would include data on progress of
construction of all physical facilities, progress in the procurement of equip-
ment and materials, and data on project expenditures and livestock production.
Information would be collected on each component and consolidated into an
annual report whose coverage would include data on the number of enterprises
and farms financed; the type, size and ownership of each; incremental poultry
production; efficiency of production; annual consumption and exports of poultry
products. Since its owns procedures requires BAFI to assemble such material
and data the incremental cost of monitoring the project would negligible.
BAFI would also furnish to the Bank a project completion report promptly after



- 33 -
completion of the project but in any event not later than 6 months after the
project closing date. BAFI would prepare its report in accordance with Bank
guidelines and format to be agreed during negotiations. Assurances regarding
these matters were obtained during negotiations.
H. Environmental Impact
8.12      Romania now maintains a comprehensive system of standards and con-
trols to ensure satisfactory waste disposal and a strict system of penalties
is maintained to ensure compliance. Facilities financed under the project
would be constructed and operated in conformity with this environmental pro-
tection code. During construction, each poultry complex would be required
by law to install suitable waste water treatment works as well as separate
water supply facilities. In the manure disposal system, solid materials from
the mechanized broiler production units would be collected and sold to live-
stock fattening farms as feed or to local farms to use as fertilizer. Since
breeding units use the deep litter system, maure collects in the litter
(chopped straw, ground corn cobs or sunflower hulls) until the end of the
growing cycle when the litter is removed and sold either for livestock feed or
to local farms for use as soil conditioner-fertilizer. Slaughterhouse waste
(feathers, inedible offal, feet, blood and heads) would be collected and
processed into meat and feather meal. Waste water would be pretreated prior
to discharge into municipal sewerage system.
I. Role of Women
8.13      In Romania equal opportunity for employment exists throughout the
work force in the country. Within the Poultry subsector women are engaged as
managers, professionals, technicians, and skilled and unskilled laborers. The
project has no specific component designed according to differentials based on
sex of intended beneficiaries. It is expected that women will benefit as much
as men and possibly more. A greater opportunity for gainful employment of
women in processing facilities will be achieved directly under the project as
a result of additional jobs created.
IX. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
9.01      The proposed Poultry project would reach full development in year
7 (1987) to generate the following outputs at the three stages of the produc-
tion process.



- 34 -
Incremental        Percent of Total
Production         National Output
Day Old Chicks (Million)                           243                   52
Broilers (Million)
State  New units                                    34                   22
Cooperatives:  of which                             68                   48
New units                                        39                     -
Modernization of existing units                  29                    1
Slaughterhouse Capacity
Chicken frozen and fresh (tons)                 78,690                   25
Head, legs and feet (tons)                         810                   25
Meat, blood and bone meal (tons)                 9,600                   N.A.
Inedible fat (tons)                                495                   N.A.
Manure (tons '000)                                 564                   N.A.
Projected supply of chicken meat from state and cooperative sectors in Romania
would increase from 186 thousand tons (carcass) in 1980 to 317 thousand tons
in 1987. At full development the proposed project would account for 34% of
total broiler meat production. In addition, following the recent reorganiza-
tion in the structure of agricultural farm units (para. 2.06) technical
assistance envisaged for individual farmers would also boost their marketable
output.
9.02      At present slaughterhouses are operating at an average rate of about
10 hours a day; thus unused capacity of about 37,000 tons (assuming 27,000 tons
of broilers are acquired from individual farmers) is currently available.
Broiler purchases from individual farmers are estimated at less than 10 percent
of total purchases for slaughtering. At full development, after meeting the
requirements of the broiler farm units and slaughterhouses under the project,
(a) about 130 million day-old chicks (or hatching eggs) would be available
for sale to individual farms or export of hatching eggs; (b) about 27 million
broilers would be sold to other slaughterhouses in Romania currently operating
at less than full capacity; and (c) the incremental slaughterhouse capacity
would be fully utilized, leaving 5,000 tons to process broilers from indi-
vidual farms. The material balance for production under the project is shown
in Annex 5.
9.03      Projected production levels would be achieved through a combined
capacity expansion and efficiency improvements., Output from mechanized cage
houses would be about 3.3 times larger than from deep litter houses. More
important the proposed feed ration (with higher percentage protein), wbich is
composed of energy grain, protein, fat and other ingredients, would accomplish
a better feed conversion efficiency from the present level of 2.5 to 2.3 and
attain heavier birds of 1.5 kg which is 15.4% higher than the average weight
presently growing in state and cooperative farm units. Whilst the current
level of efficiency is considered one of the lowest in the world, the govern-
ment is cognizant of the problem and is determined to alleviate critical



- 35 -
shortages of soybeans and improve the quality of energy grain. In the short
run large volumes of soybean meal would have to be imported to supplement
domestic production. Furthermore, future imports of soybean meal would be
upgraded from 44 to 48% protein content. Particularly with the maturity of
already approved livestock projects (pig, cattle and dairy) the total esti-
mated protein meal requirements far exceed the domestic output. Except energy
grain and sunflower cake, Romania would have to continue imports of soybean
meal and fishmeal to rationally balance the feed composition until it becomes
self-sufficient in 1985. Feed requirements and composition are shown in the
Table below.
INCREMENTAL FEED REQUIREMENTS
(tons)
Breeding Farms      Broiler Farms      Total
Maize                                  121,940              210,900      332,840
Soyabean Meal                           25,480               87,500      112,980
Sunflower Meal                          9,100                 8,230       17,330
Fish Meal                                5,460                6,860       12,320
Fat                                     5,460                 9,260       14,720
Other                                   14,560               20,240       34,800
Total Incremental Feed                 1822000              342,990      524,990
B.  Markets and Prices
9.04      Economic planning in Romania reduces the risks of over production
beyond which the domestic market size can absorb. Often domestic demand has
been left unfulfilled in favor of possible foreign exchange earnings partic-
ularly in the case of meat. The broiler farms and slaughterhouses under the
proposed project would be located in districts where chicken meat is in short
supply. Each slaughterhouse would market its output directly to retail out-
lets in the respective District. Some districts with larger slaughterhouse
capacities would transport their produce to deficient areas. However, the
policy of the government is to make each district self-sufficient to avoid
long distance line transport. Details on Demand and Market Aspects are given
in Chapter 6.
9.05      Prices.  The pricing system in Romania (Chapter 6) is centrally
controlled. Market responses to either higher demand or supply shortfalls are
not reflected on prices. The official government price is fixed on the basis
of cost of production plus some retailer's margin. In the last 16 years
prices have only been revised once in 1974. In the financial analysis 1979
domestic prices have been used for both inputs and outputs. For the economic
analysis, however, the disparity between international prices and Romanian
administered prices for traded inputs and outputs warrant adjustments. Traded
inputs are valued at either f.o.b. or c.i.f. equivalent prices. About 90% of
the recommended broiler feed composition is traded inputs. Maize is currently



- 36 -
exported and the economic millgate price is derived from f.o.b. prices adjusted
for quality, transport and handling costs. Soybean meal, sunflower meal and
fish meal would have to be imported to supplement domestic production thus
the economic price is valued on the basis of c.i.f. unit costs. Summary of
financial and economic prices used in the analyses are presented in Annex 6,
Table 1.
9.06      Output Prices.  World trade in chicken meat accounts for less than
5% of production. Furthermore, the market is limited and is not expected to
expand substantially. Among the major chicken meat exporters, Netherlands
accounts for about 35% (210,000 tons) of exports (excluding the COMECON
exporters namely Hungary which delivers over 150,000 tons to the Soviet Union
under a special COMECON arrangement) followed by the US and France. Most of
the trade is within EC countries. Exports to non-EC countries are supported
by a substantial export subsidy. In 1979 the subsidy ranges from $360 in the
Netherlands to $400 per ton in the Federal Republic of Germany. Romania is
currently exporting about 13,000 tons of poultry meat and expects to maintain
this level in the future. Output from the project however is assumed to
substitute for future imports of chicken meat if Govermment is committed to
increase domestic meat consumption. Alternatively, however, Romania may have
to forego its export of beef or pig meat to meet domestic requirements. Due
to favorable prospects for beef and pigmeat-exports it is likely, therefore,
that foreign exchange earnings from beef and pigmeat exports would have to
finance imports of chicken meat in the absence of the proposed project. Hence
the economic benefit of producing chicken meat is valued at the cost of
imports. In constant 1979 terms, the economic price of chicken meat produced
under the project would be lei 24,950 per ton after adjustments for quality
and adding cost of freight. The free market price of poultry meat in Romania
is 4% higher than the import parity price used in the economic analysis.
Similarly, the day old chicks are valued at lei 3.29 per day old chick to
reflect the higher economic price of chicken meat. Projected output of manure
is converted into fertilizer equivalents taking urea, muriate of potash and
phosphates as proxies. About 560,000 tons of manure would generate 12,000
tons N, 6,000 tons P and 5,000 tons K. While N and P are assumed to be export-
ables, K is import substitute.
C. Financial Analysis
9.07      The financial rates of return to the various components, summarized
in tabular form below, range from 5% for the broiler breeding units to 20% for
the modernization of broiler production units. Given the administered price
system and the general independence of investment decisions from financial
rates of return, these rates of return provide little or no indication as to
the allocation of investment resources, and the relative profitability of
different investments. However, the financial rates of return are good indi-
cators of the capacity of the enterprises to repay loans. The difference in
the rates of return of state and cooperative new broiler production units is
due to the higher pension contribution required for CAP workers and to a
larger existing spread between broiler and feed prices for the state units.



- 37 -
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Sensitivity Analysis
Capital     Operating
Costs         Costs         Revenue
Basic   +10%   -10%   +10%   -10%   +10%   -10%
- --------------------percent------------------
New broiler production units
State enterprises                 18      17     19      15      21     22      14
Cooperatives                      15      14     16      11      18     19      10
Broiler modernization units
Cooperatives                      20      19     21      15      24     26      13
Broiler breeding units
State enterprises                  5       5      6       4       7      7       3
Slaughterhouses
State enterprises                 11      10     12      -4     21      22     -6
D.  Economic Analysis
9.08      Economic Rate of Return.  After adjusting the value of investments,
traded inputs and outputs to reflect the real resource costs to the economy,
the economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 12% (Annex 6,
Table 2).
9.09      A set of key parameters believed to have significant impact on the
performance of the project have been tested with varying assumptions. The
most critical coefficients determining the efficiency of poultry enterprises
are the level of feed conversion, broiler yield and the price of chicken
meat. The results of the sensitivity analysis are presented below in terms
of switching values at 9% discount rate (i.e. if any one of the values of the
parameters change from the appraisal to the switching values, the economic
rate of return would be 9%).
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal   Switching
Values      Values       % Change
Feed conversion (per unit of weight gain)           2.3          2.5            +9
Broiler yield (kg per bird)                         1.5          1.3           -13
Price of chicken meat (lei/ton)                  24,950       23,450            -6
Feed cost (lei/ton)                                3,161        3,477          +10
Total operating cost of broiler growing
farms (million lei)                              8,528        9,540          +12
Total operating cost of slaughterhouses
(million lei)                                    1,647        2,659          +61
Total investment costs (million lei)               4,845        5,856          +21



- 38 -
The system efficiency envisaged in the analysis is half way between the most
efficient international producers where feed conversion ranges from 1.9 to 2
and the least efficient e.g. the present level achieved in Romania of 2.5. It
is possible that feed conversion under the project could be better than 2.3
since the breeding stock already reared by Romanian producers has the genetic
capability. With improvements in feed rations and management, the chances for
Romania to obtain an international standard of broiler production efficiency
are high. Such improvements would result in an economic rate of return of
about 15 percent. The project is most sensitive to changes in the import
parity price of chicken meat. If the world prices of feed increases while
chicken meat prices fall, the rate of return would be unacceptable. But such
a combination of cost and price behavior can almost be ruled out. The ratio
of chicken meat prices to feed costs has remained almost constant over the
past decade (para. 9.06) and continued parallel movement is the most likely
outcome in the future. In fact, a real term increase in world freight rates
would increase the rate of return of the project by changing the relationships
between the import parity price of chicken meat and the export price of corn.
9.10      Employment and Benefit Distribution.  An additional 9,000 jobs
would be created in the proposed breeding and broiler production farms and
slaughterhouses.  Due to the capital intensity of the mechanized cage system,
the employment impact is marginal. These additional employments would be
generated in the different Judets as the Government has intended to locate the
sub-projects throughout Romania to make every Judet self-sufficient in broiler
production. Another factor in dispersing broiler farm and slaughterhouse
enterprises was the desire to distribute investment opportunities in all
regions of Romania to enhance economic activity. Due to the nat:ure of eco-
nomic management in Romania, benefits from Government financial projects
accrue to the entire population having access to the product marketed.
Surplus funds earned by producing or slaughterhouse enterprises would be
transferred to the state for redistribution in accordance with state planned
expenditures.
9.11      Risks.  The risk of a reduction in the rate of return is small.  As
noted above the return is sensitive to feed conversion efficiency and broiler
yield. Particular attention was paid to this aspect of the project during
preparation and appraisal. As one of the primary objectives of the project
is to improve the efficiency of the poultry industry in general through the
gradual adoption of better feed, it is essential that the proposed feed com-
position be adopted. During appraisal, Government has expressed its desire
to alter the current feed quality in the near future. Coupled with avail-
ability of well balanced feed, the presence of well trained and experienced
technical staff is indispensable for optimum utilization of all inputs. Expe-
rienced staff is necessary to be able to identify emerging disease problems.
To safeguard against such risk, MAFI's training program would be supplemented
by short-term specialized training which would be offered to qualified
Romanians. The program would be financed under the proposed technical assis-
tance component.



- 39 -
9.12      The other possible risk is the gradual declining quality of the
existing breeding stock adopted a decade ago. The project, however, has made
provisions for AVICOLA to continue its research program to introduce specific
traits of high disease resistance, better feed conversion, better bone struc-
ture and higher yields. Moreover it is envisaged that new pedigreed stock
would continue to be infused in Romanian pure lines.
9.13      Finally, there is risk that the world price of chicken meat will
decline relative to feed costs.  Poultry raising is a cost determined indus-
try, with a short production cycle, and only a minute part of its output
enters world trade. Historically, chicken meat prices have moved parallel
to feed costs and the trend is expected to continue. As noted above, any
adverse trend might well be cushioned by relative increases in freight rates.
X. RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(i) the project would be implemented in accordance with the project
description in paras. 4.02 and 4.03 (para. 4.03);
(ii) loan terms and sources of financing would be in accordance with
paras. 5.03 and 5.04 (para. 5.04);
(iii) feed formula for growing broilers would be adjusted to provide
sufficient nutrition to obtain 1 kg of body weight gain per 2.3
kg of feed intake (para. 7.04);
(iv) BAFI would implement the lending policies procedures and terms
described in paras. 8.03-8.06 (para. 8.06);
(v) procurement of items specified in agreed list of goods would be
arranged through ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines (para.
8.07);
(vi) BAFI would submit annual audit report to the Bank within 6 months
of the close of the fiscal year (para. 8.09);
(vii) BAFI would keep a project account as outlined in para 8.10 and
satisfactory to the Bank and available to Bank supervision
missions and would submit an annual report on this account,
audited by the Ministry of Finance to the Bank within 6 months
of the close of the fiscal year (para. 8.10);
(viii) BAFI would submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports within
45 days of the close of each quarter, and would be responsible
for monitoring and evaluating the costs and benefits realized
under the project (para. 8.11); and



- 40 -
(ix) BAFI would be responsible for the preparation of the project
completion report not later than 6 months after the project
closing date (para 8.11).
10.02     With the above assurances and conditions the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$80 million, equivalent, t.o BAFI for a
term of 15 years including 3 years grace.
September 1979



ANNEX 1
- 41 -
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Project Procurement
1.  List of construction materials to be procured under International Competitive
Bidding Procedures (Romanian bidders are expected to win these contracts).
Item                               Unit   Quantity      Value
(US$ Million)
Concrete reinforcing steel         ton     29,500         8.76
Structural steel                   ton     12,000         6.34
Steel pipe                         ton      7,800         2.81
Electric cables                    km       2,400         9.90
Steel sheets                       ton      5,000         2.73
Asbestos sheets                    m2      2.1 million   2.20
Total                                                  32.74
2. Equipment to be procured under International Competitive Bidding.
US$ Million
(a)  Equipment Not Produced in Romania
Control systems, electric protection devices,
thermostat, refrigeration valves                     1.80
(b)  Equipment Produced in Romania
Boilers, electric motors, poultry cages, feed
conveyors, pumps, rotary defeathering units,
tanks, refrigeration system components, scales,
vehicles, chain and roller conveyors, crates,
stunners, processing tables                         48.46
Sub-total                                                83.00
3. Equipment and stock to be procured by international shopping after obtaining
at least one bid from three Bank member countries.
(a) Imported Poultry Stock
Pedigreed breeding stock                             0.4
(b)  Goods Not Produced in Romania
Laboratory equipment, quality control equipment,
vaccine production equipment, and biological
products                                             1.6
Sub-total                                                 2.0
GRAND TOTAL                                               85.0



- 42 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVECTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Phasing of Project Investments
Y E A R
1980      1981       1982       1983       1984        Total
----------------------(Lei Million)---------------------
Investments /1
Slaughterhouses
State enterprises               308.9      373.5       79.9        -          -          762.3
Broiler production units
State enterprises               238.8      304.4       149.7    143.9        32.7        869.5
Cooperatives                    219.5      279.9       137.7    132.4        30.0        799.5
Broiler modernization units
Cooperatives                    271.8      269.3       111.6    158.0        12.5        823.2
Broiler breeding units
State enterprises               423.4      896.2       634.3    286.3        65.0      2,305.2
Technical Assistance               -          10.3        10.9      11.5       12.2         44.9
Total:  Lei million             1,462.4   2,133.6    1,124.1    732.1         152.4      5,604.6
Total:  US$ million                 81.2     118.5        62.5      40.7        8.5        311.4
/1 Includes contingencies
May 1979



- 43 -                                  ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table 2
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$'000)
Cumulative
Bank Fiscal Year   Disbursements    Disbursements at    Outstanding Balance at
and Quarter         During Quarter   End of Quarter        End of Quarter
1980
III               -                   -                   85,000
IV               900                 900                 84,100
1981
I            3,300                4,200                 80,800
II            3,900                8,100                 76,900
III            5,900               14,000                 71,000
IV            6,500               20,500                 64,500
1982
I            7,200              27,700                  57,300
II            7,600               35,300                 49,700
III            7,600               42,900                 42,100
IV            7,300               50,200                 34,800
1983
I            6,000              56,200                  28,800
II            5,200              61,400                  23,600
III            3,900               65,300                 19,700
IV            3,300               68,600                 16,400
1984
I            3,300              71,900                  13,100
II            3,300               75,200                  9,800
III            2,600               77,800                  7,200
IV            2,000               79,800                  5,200
1985
I            1,600              81,400                   3,600
II            1,300              82,700                   2,300
III            1,300               84,000                  2,300
IV            1,000               85,000
September 1979



- 44 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Phasing of Project Commitments
Investment Model or Activity       Sector   Total   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
1.  Slaughterhouses                    State       15       15      -        -        -
2.  Broiler production units           State       16       12      -         4       -
3.  Broiler production units        Cooperative   12         7       1        3        1
4. Modernization of existing
broiler production units    Cooperative   20           6       7        3        4
5.  Broiler breeding units             State       37       18       12       6        1
6.  Technical component  1/            State                25%      25%     25%      25%
1/ Financial phasing of yearly commitments over four years.
June 1979



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Investment Program - Actual and Plan
1976       1977    1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985
---------Actual------        ----------------------------aPlanned-----------------------
-------------------  -- --------------(Lei  Million)----------------------------------------
Agriculture & Food Industry
State                         24,038     25,984  27,163    28,714    30,149    30,200    29,900   31,750    32,700    33,750
Cooperative                    5,652      5,956   6,810     6,147     6,971     5,760     6,048    6,892      7,560     7,610
Total  (A)                  29,690     31,940  33,973    34,861    38,120    35,960    35,948   38,642    40,260    41,360
Livestock Sub-Sector
State                          2,320      2,510   2,630     2,775     3,100     3,2_4     2,867    3,292      3,163     3,761
Cooperative                    3,005      3,394   4,275     3,927     3,375     3,550     3,705    4,120      4,315     4,530
Total  (B)                   5,325      5,904   6,905     6,702     6,475     6,804     6,572    7,412      7,478     8,291
x of (A)                      18         18      20        19        17        19        18       19         19        20
Poultry 1/
State                          666        860     935     1,370     2,033       696       588       58         30        26
Cooperative                    206        280     303       470       681       288       262       190       128        55
Total (C)                    872      1,140   1,238     1,840     2,714       984       850       248       158        81
%of (B)                   16          19      18        242113321
1/ Including slaughterhouses.
Source: BAFI



ANNEX 4
- 46 -                                   Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Chicken Neat Production In Selected Countries
('000 tons)
1970/74       1975       1976      1977         1978 1/
Canada                         313          91        329        330         355
USA                          3,602       3,666      4,109      4,272       4,576
Brazil                         226         349        552        632         725
France                         468         517        536        561         584
Italy                          468         495        496        500         512
Netherlands                    266         267        292        299         300
UK                             460         444        550        565         570
Spain                          486         561        617        651         680
Japan                          484         616        701        785         890
Romania                                    354        394        439         429
1/   Preliminary
Source: Foreign Agricultural Circular, USDA, March 1979.



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Meat Per Capita Consumption for Selected Countries
(Kilograms p/year - carcass basis)
1975                                           1977
Beef,           Sheep,                         Beef,            Sheep,
Veal    Pork   Goat       Poultry   Total      Veal    Pork   Goat         Poultry    Total
Romania /1            12.0    22.0    4.0          8.0     46.0       13.0    24.0    4.0         10.0       51.0
German D.R. /2        22.0    43.0    1.0        n.a.      n.a.       21.6    43.4    1.0         n.a.       n.a.
Hungary /2             9.2    41.0    0.3        15.7      66.2       11.5    40.8    0.2          18.1       70.6
Czechoslovakia /2    25.0    30.0    1.0         12.0      68.0       25.0    31.0    1.0         15.0       72.0
Yugoslavia /2         12.0    22.8    2.4          8.8     46.1       13.3    22.0    2.3           9.8       47.5
Poland                20.0    33.0    1.0          7.0     61.0       23.5    43.5    1.0           9.0      77.0
USSR /2               24.9    15.9    3.9         6.1      50.8       24.6    13.9    3.6           6.3      48.4
EC-9 /2  /3           25.1    32.0    3.2        12.0      72.3       25.2    31.9    3.0         13.0       73.1
/1 Source: BAFI
/2 Source: USDA Economic Research Service; US Foreign Agricultural Service.
/3 Average for 9 member countries.
(D w
w11  D-:



ANNEX 4
- 48 -                             Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Poultry Production 1978 - 1985
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-------       '000 tons liveweight--------------------
Broiler production
by IAS's and ICA's /1           199    260    267    267    267    286    286    286
Broiler production
from project /1                 -       -      -       -        27     98    141    150
Broiler production
from individual farmers /2    230    205    215    218    221    224    228    231
Total broiler production        429    465    482    485    515    608    655    667
Other poultry /2                 45      47     47      49      50     50      50      50
Total Poultry Production        474    512    529    534    565    658    705    717
/1 Estimates based on planned incremental production through 1985.
/2 Source: BAFI



- 49 -                                 ANNEX 4
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Per Capita Consumption of Meat
(kg/year - carcass basis)
Average Growth
'1  '1             ~~~~rate()
1970 /1 1975 /1 1978 /1 1980 /1 1985 /2   1970/78         1978/85
Beef & veal          10       12      13      13.5    14.5          3.3          1.7
Pork                 14       22      25      28       35.5         7.5          5.1
Poultry               6        8      11      14 /2   18            7.9          7.3
Mutton & Lamb         4        4       4       5        5            -            -
Total meat         34       46      53      60.5    73            5.7          4.7
/1 Sources: Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry, Ministry of Internal Trade,
Romania
/2 Estimates considering the incremental production through 1985, and assuming
a 1.1% annual population growth.



- 50 -                                  ANNEX 4
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Export of Meat 1970-1977
('000 metric tons)
1970   1971    1972    1973    1974   1975    1976    1977
Total of meat
of which:               55     61       77      111      132'   165-    165       199
- beef                  23      28      30       46       48      38       47      76
- pork                  17      18      24       35       51      82       65      63
- canned meat           13      12      18       23       24      23       27       33
- sausages/salami        1       1       1        1        1       1        1        1
- mutton and lamb        -       1       1        1        1       5        8       8
- poultry                1       1        1       2        1      12       14      13
- other meats            -      -        2        3        6       4        3       5
Offals, etc.               6       6        7      10        8       7        9       10
Source: BAFI



- 51 -                            ANNEX 4
-~ 51 -Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Income Elasticities for Demand of Selected Products
Romania     Easterr. Europe     Western Europe
Total Meat                     63              48                  44
Beef and Veal               80              61                   51
Mutton and Lamb             80              94                   30
Pig Meat                    50               33                  32
Poultry Meat                90               88                  72
Others                      40              41                   39
Whole Milk                     30              21                   7
Skim Milk                     NA              NA                   13
Cheese                        60               51                  42
Butter                         60              23                   9
Cereals                      -23             -24                  -29
Source: FAO, Agricultural Commodity Projections, 1970-80, vol. II, Rome, 1971



- 52 -                                ANNEX 4
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Protein Per Capita Per Day
(1974 - 77)
Vegetable Products    Animal Products           Total
-----------------------(grams)--------------------
Romania                            61.3                  35.3                96.6
Hungary                            47.5                  41.5                89.0
Poland                             47.7                  56.7               104.4
Bulgaria                           65.7                  35.4               101.1
Yugoslavia                         65.6                  28.6                94.2
France                             36.5                  61.2                97.7
Italy                              55.4                  42.8                98.2
Czechoslovakia                     41.7                  54.8                96.5
Source:  FAO Production Yearbook - Vol. 31, 1977
June 1979



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Material Balance
(Breeding - Production - Slaughterhouse)
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Breeding Farms
Total Production (mill.d.o.c.)                         220   220   239   341   416   454   454   454   463
From Project 1/                                       0     0      19   121   196   234   234   234   243
Total Requirement 2/                                   220   220   239   306   338   344   356   357   357
For Project 3/                                        -     -      63    70   101   108   109   110   110
Broiler Production
Total - Romania (mill. broilers)                       205   205   223   285   314   320   331   332   332
From Project 4/                                       -      -     18    65    94   100   101   102   102
Other                                                 -      -     -     15    15    15    25    25    25
Slaughterhouse Capacity ('000 tons)                      331   345   458   458   458   458   458   458   458
Under Project SI                                        -      -    113   113   113   113   113   113   113
Other                                                   -      14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14
Surplus/Deficit Slaughterhouse Capacity ('000 tons) 6/ 64    78   165    54    31    22           6      5     5
1/ From 37 breeding farms financed under the project. Surplus hatching eggs would be exported and day-old chicks
sold the individual farmers.
2/ Required by State and Cooperative farms only.
3/ Million day old chicks (d.o.c.) per broiler growing farm.
4/ Projected number of broilers sold is 93% of starting number of day old chicks assuming 7% mortality.
Broilers are sold at 1.5 kg.
5/ Capacities shown assume two shifts.
6/ Excess capacities can be utilized to process broilers from individual farmers.
July 1979



54 -                                   ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table 1
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financial and Economic Prices 1/
Financial         Economic
-         Lei per ton--
Output
Chicken meat                                20,826            24,950 2/
Head, Legs & Feet                            3,240             3,240
Fat                                          6,300             6,300
Meat, Blood and Bone Meal                    4,260             8,334 3/
Day old chicks
(Per 100 chicks)                             275              329
N                                             N.A.             6,030 4/
P                                             N.A.             5,004 5/
K                                             N.A.             2,322 5/
Input
Maize                                        1,105             1,890 6/
Wheat                                        1,275             2,412 6/
Soybean  Meal                                3,600             4,644 7/
Sunflower Meal                               2,030             2,448 7/
Fish Meal                                     N.A.             8,334 7/
Feed Concentrate
IAS                                        1,983             3,161
ICA                                        2,156             3,161
1/  In constant 1979 prices.
2/  Import  parity  price  adjusted for quality; plus transport and
handling costs to Romania.
3/  Fish Meal equivalent prices.
4   Export parity price based on urea.
51 Import parity prices based on triple super phosphate and muriate of potash.
6/ Export parity prices adjusted for quality.
7/ Import parity prices.
July 1979



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Economic Benefits and Costs
(Lei million)-
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    198P    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993         199j     1994    1996    1997    1998    1999
Incremental Benefits
Chicken Meat i/                     -       -      473   1,693   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970    1,970    1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970   1,970
Broilers sold outside
project 2/                      (140)     -       -        -      500     655     681      707     707     707      707     707     707     707       707      707      707     707     707      707
D.OC. sold outside project 3/      -       -        -      168     312     424     428      438     438     438      438     438     438     438       438      438      438     438     438      438
Meat, Blood & Bone seal 4/          -       -       28     100      115     115     115      115     115     115      115     115     115     115       115      115      115     115      115     115
Manure 2/                         ( 8)      -       19      85      103     105   _1108      108     108    iGS       108     108     loB     108       lO8      108 1    1o      108     108      108
Total Benefits                    (148)     -      520   2,046   3 000   3,269   3,302   3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338          8    3,338    3,338   3 8   3,338   3,338   3,338
Incremental Costs
Operating
Breeding Farms                    _       _      167     475      686     775     794      794     794     794     794      794     794     794       794      794      794     794     794      794
Broiler Growing (New)             -       -      272     668      940   1,000   1,011   1,015   1,015   1,015   1,015   1,015   1,015   1,015    1,015    1,015   1,015   1,015   1,015   1,015
Broiler Growing
(Modernization)              (135)    _         i4      50     261      333     350     353      353     353     353     353      353     353      353       353     353      353     353      353
Slaughterhouses                   -       -      195     219      226     228     228      228     228     228     228      228     228     228       228      228      228     228     228      228
Sub-total                         (135)     _      648   1412       2,116   2,336   2 ,383   2,390   2,390   2,390 2 2,390   2,393   2,39D  2,390         0 ,390 2  ,390 222   2,390   2390   2,390v
Investments                                8
Breeding Farms                   411     849     587     258       58      -        -       -       -       -        -       91     121      45        18         3      -       -        -       -
Broiler Growing (New)            422     546     263     243       54      44      13        8      47       7      103     126     140      51        13       32        7       7       44      29
Broiler Growing
(Modernizatiob)               260     250      100     137      25       16       7      23       i6      26      72      78       69      35        34       16      10       -       16        7
Slaughterhouses                  300     354      77       -       -       -       -        -       _       _        _       53      23      -         -        -        -       23       -       -
Technical Assistance               9       9       9        9
Sub-total                        1,402   2,008   1,036     647      137      60      20       31      63      33      175     348     353     131        65       51       17      32       60      36
BAFI Administrative Expenses       .03    o.6     1.4     2.0      2.3     2.4     2.2      1.9      1.7     1.5      1.2     1.0     0.8      o.6      o.4       0.3     0.2     0.1       -       -
Total Project Costs                1,267   2,009   1,686   2,061   2,255   2,398   2,405   2,423   2,455   2,424   2,566   2,739   2,744   2,522    2,455    2,441   2,407   2420   2,450   2,426
Net Incremental Benefits          (1,415) (2,009) (1,166)    (15)    748       871    897      915     883     913      772     599     594     816       883       897     931     918      888     912
N.B. Diie to the integrated nature of the project, sales of D.O.C.s to project farms and broilers sold co
project slaughterhouses are not accounted for in the benefit and cost 6treams.
4/   Chicken meat: 1982=18,885 tons; 1983=67,670 tons; 1984-1990=78,690 tons.  Includes also heads, legs and feet.
g/J  1984=19,950 tons; 1985=26,250 tons; 1986=27,300 tons; 1987=28,350 tons of carcass meat processed outside the project.                                                                                        MA
3/   1983=51 million D.O.C.s, 1984=102 million D.O.C.s, 1985= 134 klflion D.O.C0., 1986-137 million D.O.C.s, 1987=138 rillion D.O.C. and                                                                            a,
1988-1999=141 million D.O.C.s
3/ Valued at fishmeal equivalent
3/   Valued at N, P and K equivalents.
Jul;y 1979



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
IAS New Broiler Production Units
Investment Year
Enterprise           Judet                     1980           1982
Oradea               Bihor
Broiler farm I                                 x              -
Constanta            Constanta
Broiler farm II                                x
Broiler farm III                               x              -
Baia Mare            Maramures
Broiler farm I                                 x 
Broiler farm II                                x              _
P.  Neamt            Neamt
Broiler farm II                                x              -
Baicoi               Prahova
Broiler farm I                                 x              --
Broiler farm II
Giarmata             Timis
Broiler farm I                                 x              -
Slobozi              Ialomita
Broiler farm I                                 x              -
Broiler farm II                                x              -
Botogani             Botosani
Broiler farm I                                 x              -
Buzau                Buzau                       -              x
Satu Mare            Satu Mare                   -              xi
Tulcea               Tulcea                      -              x
Vasluni              Vaslui                      -              x
June 1979



- 57 -                                 ANNEX 7
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
CAP New Broiler Production Units
Investment Year
Enterprise             Judet                1980        1981     1982     1983
Catamarasti            Botosani               x           -        -
Posta Cilnau           Busau                  x           -        -
Not Identified         Dolj                                        x
Dragos Voda             Ialomita              -
Podul Iloaiei           Iasi                  x           -        -
Moara Vlasiei           Ilfov                  x          -        -
Afumati                                        x          -        -         -
Satu - Mare            Satu - Mare            x           -        -
Gratia                 Teleorman               --                  'C
Giroc                  Timis                   x          -
Not Identified          Tulcea                 -          -         -        x
October 1979



58 -                                iANEX I
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
IAS Broiler Breeding Farms
Enterprise             Judet                        Enterprise          Judet
-----------------------I   ---    1980 Investments      
Alexandria             Teleorman                    Ialomita II         lalomita
Giarmata               Timis                        Iasi II             Iasi
Arad    L              Arad                         Mihailesti          Ilfov
Baiculesti             Arges                        Crevedia            Ilfov II
Botosani               Botosani                     Baicoi              Prahova
Constanta              Constant                     Sibiu               Sibiu
Craiova                Dolj                         Cluj                Cluj
Titu                   Dimbovita                    Cristuru            Harghita
Galati                 Galati                         Secuiesc [I
Mintia              ilunedoara
---------------------------------1981 Investments----------- ----    -
Alba                   Alba                         Vilcea              Vilcea
Bistrita               Bistrita                     Iasi                Iasi
Catalina               Covasna                      Constanta           Constanta
Satu Mare              Satu Mare                    Botosani            Botosani
Tulcea                 Tulcea                       Tartasesti          Ilfov
Vaslui                 Vaslui                       Tg. Mures           Mtires
---------------------------------1982 Investments----
Giarmata               Timis                       Alexandria           Teleorman
Arad                   Arad                         Crevedia            Ilfov
Slobozia               Ialomita                    Mihailesti           Ilfov
---------------------------------1983 Investments-         ----
Buzau                  Buzau
June 1979



59                          ANNEX 7
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
CAP Modernization Broiler Production Units
Enterprise               Judet                    1980       1981     1982      1983
Arad                     Arad                       x          -        -         -
Gai                                                 -          x        -         -
Madaras                  Bihor                      x          -        -         -
Catamarasti              Botosani                   -          -        -         x
Lipia                    Buzau                      -          x        -         _
Caranseoes               Caras - Severin            -          -        x         _
Cumpana                  Constanta                  x          -        -         -
Lumina                                              -          x
Plenita                  Plenita                    -          x        -         -
Slobozia                 Ialomita                   -          X
Bora                                                     -              x
Ciocanesti                                          -          -        x
Sf. Gheorghe                                        -          -                  x
Hirlau                   Iasi                       x          -        -         -
Afumati                  Ilfov                                 x        0         0
Moara Vlasiei                                                  x        _ 
Scornicesti              Olt                        x          -        -         -
Satu-Mare                Satu - Mare                -          -        -         x
Videle                   Teleorman                  -          -        -         x
Zorleni                  Vaslui                     x          -        -
Vaslui                                              -          -        x
October 1979



- 60 -                             ANNEX 7
Table 5
APPRAISAL. OQ
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Poultry Processing Plants
1980 Investment Years
Enterprise              Judet
Babadag                 Tulcea
Vaslui                  Vaslui
Lugoj                   Timis
Vilcea                  Vilcea
Satul Mare              Satu Mare
Mihailesti              Ilfov
Alba                    Alba
Botosani                Botosani
Ianca                   Braila
Sf. Gheorghe            Covasna
Cristuru Secuiesc       Harghita
Slobozia                Ialomita
Buzau                   Buzau
Bistrita                Bistrita
Not Identified          Dolj
June 1979



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Statements of Expenditure
Under the project credit components, the Bank for Agriculture
and Food Industry (BAFI) would disperse for some 100 BAFI investments which
include long-term loans for broiler breeding farms, modernization of existing
broiler production farms, mechanized broiler production farms and poultry
slaughterhouses. Presently, the Bank accepts from BAFI under the Sadova
Corabia Agricultural Credit Project 1083-RO, Flood Recovery Project 1169-RO,
Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation Project 1247-RO, Pig Production and Processing
Project 1479-RO and Livestock II Project 1669-RO Statements of Expenditure
to cover BAFI loans for on-farm development and agroindustry investments
which are to be Bank financed under the respective loans. BAFI is expe-
rienced with this type of application and its accounting and administrative
procedures are satisfactory. BAFI keeps separate accounts for all project
expenditures including those related to goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of Bank loans. These accounts have been audited according to
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Supervision missions make spot checks of
the documentation retained by BAFI and this would continue for the Livestock
III Project.



62                             MALiNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Implementation File
Table of ContentsE
1.   Broiler Production
Model: Broiler Breeding Farms
Model: Broiler Modernization Unit
Model: Broiler Production Unit
2.   Poultry Processing
Model: Slaughterhouse
3.   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
4.   Economic Analysis
Derivation of Economic Prices
5.   Comparative Analysis
Cage versus Deep Litter Systems



- 63 -                            ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK III PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Implementation File
Table of Contents
1.   Broiler Production
Model: Broiler Breeding Farms
Model: Broiler Modernization Unit
Model: Broiler Production Unit
2.   Poultry Processing
Model: Slaughterhouse
3.   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
4.   Economic Analysis
Derivation of Economic Prices
5.   Comparative Analysis
Cage versus Deep Litter Systems



I



,  RD 14310
i 2;4 :,i A i , , . ' u '  i'28                    o30             MAY 1I79
.    °     ~~~ROMNANIA   i 
s/ea                                                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
LIVESTOCK ImI (POULTRY) PROJECT
C2. Z E C H O S L O V A K I A    jPoultry slaughterhouses
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                                                                              ISSoe
U.      S.       S.       R.3Broiler production units (New)
J            \N    _.                            U.       S.       S.       R.                      - ICA (Cooperative)
-,                      (*'?    l >dM    IAS
-48°                                                   fBrr iler production units (Modernization):48rn
/                      0  ~~~~~~~~~~~CA0                        4e
H   U   N       i     GAR   Y , /->12   C
Htis U   Nr GN A      Y.tt.s.   Poultry breeding (Broiler)
0                 \ O~~~~~        ~~TO ANI           IAS
SATU MARE>) MARAMUREa                                                     *.------District(Judet) boundaries
T                              S U C E A V A               \.-lnternationol boundaries
/              >~~~~~T$AISTRITA..
AD St)  \   SALAJ   /    Nfl      /                     <QASl          %
0         g  ~~~~~B IH   R  ,                         X     tN E A M T5 E-                  
.r-,-,                                                                    -
*    U,                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UBACAI                   N '
46*~~~ /A{llp    s                                                   C                                  n/                          j
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ang C 0Cs
s   T GI O  S L\AUVEI0AR\            C              BRATt\       Fv    .OVIl                  9
E  Q     A D
C2             A   24                        25                        2Pv         p   of;ubthoundonrs.                   ,.E
T2M                               B UL            A RAEDOARA  VRANCEAperray.der:ee
26  U ZoA- U                        eeeIeAecee



