ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                              AWorld Free ol Povcrty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/16/2002                                24547
Section I - Basic Information                                       July 16, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SRI LANKA                                 Project ID: P077586
Project: LK Economic Reform Technical Assistance  Task Team Leader: Ismail Radwan
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 6, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 10, 2002                  IDA Amount ($m): 7.50
Managing Unit: SASFP                               Sector: General finance sector (30%); Oil & gas
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  (1 5%); Power (15%); General transportation sector
Status: Lending                                   (30%); Water supply (10%)
Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector
develop (P); Regulation and competition policy (S);
Other financial and private sector development (S)
I A.2. Project Objectives:
Objective: The proposed Economic Reform TA project will strengthen government's capacity to
implement its economic reform agenda. This will be achieved by funding priority technical assistance
that will provide government with the executive capacity required to implement its reform agenda. The
implementation of government's economic reforms will in turn expand the role of the private sector in the
economy and put the country on the path of higher economic growth.
Link to IDA Private Sector Adjustment Credit: The Bank has been in dialogue with the Government of
Sri Lanka (GOSL) on its medium-term economic reform objectives for some time. In August 2001,
GOSL requested IDA support for its proposed private sector structural reform program. During the
process of negotiations concerning the conditionality of the Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) it
became apparent that GOSL lacks the technical expertise and executive capacity that is required to
implement such an ambitious program of reforms. Government has therefore requested technical
assistance from IDA to fund the required capacity to design, manage and implement the reforms.
Scope: During the project identification mission, government counterparts suggested a range of areas in
which they needed technical assistance. The following five areas represent a coherent subset of
government's original requested assistance and will form the core focus for the proposed project;
*      Strengthening Government Capacity: support to building technical capacity within the newly
created Ministry of Economic Reforms and a limited number of other stakeholder ministries.
*      Infrastructure: support to implementing the reforms in priority sub-sectors: transport
(includinlg rail and bus services), telecommunications, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) and urban



2
ISDS
water supply and sanitation servives. Reforms in the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) may be included in
the medium term.
*      Financial Sector: support to the privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation (SLIC),
reforms in the state owned banks, and pension industry reforms, capacity building of the insurance
regulator (Sri Lanka Insurance Board) and the superaninuation benefit fund regulator as well as the
privatization of the Sri Lanka national lottery.
*      Strategic Communications: assistance to a country-wide effort to create a constitielIcy that
would support far reaching economic reform and increase awareness of the benefits of the privatization
agenda for the trade unions and the public. This will include two-way dialogue with stakeholders
including labor, employers and government who would jointly design the details of the economic reform
process in a transparent manner.
*      Multi-sector Regulator: medium term support to establish the multi-sector regulator for
infrastructure and the utilities (anticipated to be in place by September 2002). The Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP) funds and PPIAF funds will be used initially for this
purpose. The technical assistance project would supplement this assistance with support to the
multi-sector regulator in the medium term.
Although the scope of items included in the project remit is broad, and may appear ambitious, it is not
expected that the project will be successful in achieving progress in all the aforementioned areas. At this
stage it is impossible to predict in which areas government will be able to make progress. Therefore the
project will at first include a broad scope of reforms and will increasingly chaninel funds to sectors that
are successful in implementing reforms. Such a sectoral approach avoids the risks associated with a
more narrowly focused program of Technical Assistance.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will consist of four components:
(i) Strengthening Government Capacity, (especially in the Ministry of Economic Reforms).
Minister
Secretary
PERC                      (i)    Financial
ERD                       (ii)   Deregulation
Peace                     (iii)  Public Institutions
Secretariat               (iv)   Public Sector
The newly created Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology (MERST) is the key reforn
ministry responsible for implementing the reform program (as described in B3 above). The secretariat of
the ministry has not yet been staffed. However, some units such as the Public Enterprise Reform
Commission (PERC) and the External Resources Department (ERD) are functionilig units that have been



3
ISDS
transferred from other government entities to the MERST. The diagram above indicates the current
structure of the nascent Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology. PERC and ERD
represent the only units that are currently staffed. Support to the peace secretariat remains outside the
scope of this TA project.
The project will provide funding to PERC and the four remaining units. It is reported that the Swedish
Government has pledged assistance to MERST to establish and staff the financial reform unit. If this
funding materializes, the project will avoid duplication by supporting the creation of capacity in the other
three units. This will include funding the heads of each of these units and a staff of 2-3 local consultants
with the required expertise to implement each respective sectoral reform agenda. It is expected that
government will provide counterpart funding to cover office locations, additional staff (minimum support
staff could be transferred from ministries with excess capacity), materials such as office supplies etc.
Government has also requested funding for a small amount of IT equipment and other essential hardware
that might be lacking.
Although PERC is currently a functioning unit it lacks a Director-General ancl several key staff. Given
that this unit is responsible for implementing the government's privatization agenda it is crucial that the
capacity of PERC is strengthened through the project. PERC will receive support similar to that foreseen
for the other MERST units.
Government already has progressed in the creation of these units and in order to maintain the reform
momentum, government has requested a PPF advance on the project. The advance would be used to
cover the contract amounts of key technical staff recruited to the MERST on I year renewable contracts
and any essential equipment according to the procurement timetable and guidelines included in the PPF
request.
(ii) Consulting Technical Assistance
While it is expected that the reform units themselves would be tasked with developing the reform
roadmap in each key area including the TA requirements, some of the requirements in key areas are
already well-developed and it is expected that further requests will be developed prior to appraisal. At
the current time the requests that are developed to the stage at which we can pre-allocate indicative
funding are as follows:
*      Privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Company (SLIC): Government wishes to privatize
SLIC following the recent successful sale of a majority stake of the second largest insurance company
National Insurance Corporation (NIC). PERC is about to issue a terms of reference for a consulting
study that will review the proposed sale of SLIC and present alternative options for privatization. This
study is likely to cost between $50,000-$100,000 depending on availability of individual consultants and
scope of the terms of reference. Additional advice on a consultancy basis will be required in the
following areas; IT implementation, legal, accounting, audit, and transactions support. SLIC
management will also need support for a pre-tender conference and the planned road show to solicit
international investor interest. Support required to see these tasks through to completion is likely to cost
$1 m over a 2-3 year period and given the estimated sale size of $50-$80m such a cost appears justified.
Moreover this initial outlay in pre-privatization preparation is likely to be repaid in terms of increased
sale proceeds that would not otherwise be realized.
*      Capacity Building of the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL)- The Government is of the
view that a single financial sector regulator needs to be appointed separate to the banking sector
regulator. In addition to regulating the capital market, the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka has been



4
ISDS
assigned the functions of the insurance regulator. IBSL lacks capacity to function effectively as a
regulator and needs technical assistance, additional staff and training. A consultant funded unlder SIDA is
expected to assist them in identifying the gaps in terms of technical capacity and skill development.
However, funds are not yet available for IBSL to improve its technical capacity through training and
skills upgrading. This would need support under the proposed TA project.
*      Capacity Building of the Superannuation Regulatory Agency - The Ministry of Finance has
requested a consultant to assist in the review and legal re-drafting of the bill that will govern the
operation of the superannuation regulatory agency. This input will take between 2-3 person weeks.
Once the Superannuation Benefit Fund Regulatory Bill is approved by parliament, the combined
financial regulator built on the existing Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will need technical
assistance for capacity building to enforce the law and play an effective role as the superannuation
regulatory authority. In addition, the ministry will require the support of a consultanit to draw up a
pension reforms agenda to develop the pensions industry to provide more options and improved returns
to the beneficiaries.
*      Lottery privatization: A concept note on the privatization of the Sri Lanka National Lottery has
been approved by Cabinet. PERC is proceeding to develop the structure of the transaction bLit
preparation work to establish suitable regulation for the industry including a process to grant licenses to
future operators (including on-line lotteries) and the state run lotteries prior to their privatization is
needed. An accurate estimate of the cost of support to this process will be made during project appraisal.
The PERC is also considering the option of introducing private sector management to the National
Lotteries prior to a potential sale and would like to obtain consultancy services to prepare the request for
proposal for a private management contract as unsolicited requests are already being received by the
Ministry of Economic Reforms.
*      Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) Privatization: Although the previous administration
had only planned to unbundle CPC, the new Government of Sri Lanka has firmly placed the outright
privatization of parts of CPC on the reform agenda. Technical input is being provided by both ADB and
the World Bank to help restructure CPC and spin off certain activities. Government has identified 4-5
separate business areas that can be spun off e.g. bunkering, aviation fuel, marketing and distribution etc.
The CPC legal monopoly on all aspects of the petroleum sector has been removed thus paving the way
for increased competition and private sector participation. The economic reform TA can provide PERC
with technical support on the petroleum sector following its successful unbundling to see the project
through to privatization. Technical inputs will also be provided to help set up a common oil storage
facility for the import and distribution of petroleum products in order to facilitate a level playing field
between successor private sector firms. A precise request for technical assistance and an accurate costing
will be provided at appraisal.
There are a number of other areas in which technical assistance may be pre-allocated prior to loan
effectiveness that have not yet produced well-defined requests for technical assistance. Such areas
include; support to private sector participation in urban water supply and sanitation, support to the
smaller privatizations managed by PERC, medium term support to CEB privatization, support to private
participation in the transport sector including concessioning the Jaya Container Terminal and technical
inputs to concession selected corridors and facilitate joint ventures in the rail sector, support to private
participation in the telecoms and ports sectors, assistance to revise legislation pertaining to the water
sector, inputs to facilitate the merger of the Department of Inland Revenue and the Department of
Customs, inputs to streamline the telecommunications license regime and hiring of transaction managers
to address capacity constraints within PERC. These inputs, once well defined, can be submitted to the
challenge fund (See IV below) for possible financing under the economic reform TA project if eligible.
(iii) Mass Communications Strategy



5
ISDS
In order to maintain support for the economic reform program, government intends to undertake a mass
communications campaign that will raise awareness of the benefits of economic reform including
liberalizing factor markets and introducing increased private sector participation in all aspects of the
economy. A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize the issue of
privatization and encourage the public to view reform as a pro-active choice that will promote economic
development, improve service delivery and increase opportunities for individuals. The communications
cell within the Ministry of Economic Reforms working closely with the Department of Information
within the Ministry of Mass Communications will execute this strategic communications campaign in
support of economic reform. The cell will be staffed by two to three communications experts hired from
the private sector. International expertise will be sought from reputed communications firms that have led
similar initiatives in other countries undertaking massive structural reform. The international experts will
be part of a broader team that includes a local public relations firm and a market research firm. The
country-wide effort to involve and inform stakeholders of the reform process is likely to begin with a
detailed segmentation of the key stakeholders and will result in customized strategies to reach as much of
the population as possible especially those in the rural areas. The mass communications strategy will
consist of two parts; (i) Outsourced public relations campaign to "sell the reform process" and (ii)
Tripartite discussions between government, employers and unions on the reform process.
The first step in establishing a successful communications strategy is undertaking a communication audit.
It is suggested that the Bank's own Development Communications Unit working closely with South Asia
External Affairs staff carries out the communication audit at the time of appraisal. This will assess the
communications needs in relation to the political, social and cultural environrnent for the reform
initiative. The audit will help identify key clusters of stakeholders and gain insight into various concerns
and roadblocks either real or potential.The audit will help to determine which strategies are needed to
build consensus, and the messages and ways to communicate to these audiences most effectively. The
audit will build on work already completed by the unit including the privatization awareness survey
finalized at the end of 2000.
The communication audit will result in a report that includes a summary of preliminary findings on the
communications needs and relation to the reform program, potential organizations, local or international,
to provide communications assistance and terms of reference for the technical assistance required to
support the communications strategy. It will also include a set of specific recommendations on the
strategy, research needs and capacity building requirements within the relevant government departments.
Eventually this audit will become a road map for a successful and comprelhensive communications
strategy and action plan that will be funded through the Econoiic Reform TA project. The
implementation will start with building an effective monitoring and evaluation capability within
governmenit for effective sustainable mass communications.
(iv) Challenge Fund
The remainder of the project funds will effectively be used as a line of credit that can be allocated to
sub-projects (some of which have been mentioned above) once they have been prepared, appraised and
approved. It is expected that all the relevant line ministries and government entities involved in the
economic reform process could potentially benefit from this pool of technical assistance resources. The
project steering committee, to be created within MERST, with the help of Bank counterparts will develop
suitable criteria for project eligibility in order to maintain the focus and ensure the efficiency of this
economic reform technical assistance project. Projects that met the eligibility criteria would be appraised
and approved and then funded on a first come first served basis thereby ensuring that the project
channeled funds to the most proactive and successful refonn areas.



6
ISDS
The process for the operation of the fund would be drawn up by governmenlt counterparts responsible for
the project with the assistance of Bank staff. However, the process would ensure that money was only
allocated to well prepared project ideas that included a suitable ToR, procurement timeline and was tied
to government's publicly stated reform objectives as agreed with the Bank. Key milestones within the
sub project would be submitted that would allow the central project management unit to supervise and
monitor the sub-project going forward.
The establishment of the challenge fund would begin with the identification and formal appointing of a
steering committee. It has been informally agreed that the Prine Minister's senior adviser would chair
such a commitee which would include the Chairman of PERC, the Director General ERD, the Secretary
to the Treasury and other relevant government stakeholders as appropriate. The relevant ministerial
secretaries would be invited to attend sessions of particular relevance to their interests. The core
committee will be responsible for drafting suitable procedures for the fund's operation that would be
approved by the Bank. Once approved the fund would function independently below the threshholds for
prior approval outlined below in Section E4.
The Challenge Fund Committee would start by appointing a full time financial manager who would be
responsible for acting as a secretary to the committee, preparing and prioritizing requests received by the
committee, allocating resources as approved by the committee and accounting for the use of such funds
and preparing regular reports on the financial performance of the sub-projects financed by the fund. It is
expected that the financial manager will receive intensive procurement training in order to be able to
follow World Bank procurement guidelines throughout the project duration. The remaining details of the
fund's operation will be developed in consultation with government counterparts and the Bank's legal and
procurement departments during the appraisal stage.
The Challenge Fund Operating Process (indicative view)



7
ISDS
Ntinistnes  State-Owned    Ln
Enterprises  Misti
Challenge Fund
Committee*
Eligibility
Criteria
Concept Note
.   X  Environmental
Assessment
Detailed ToRs,
RFPs etc.
World Bank-           R    e          _| Procurement
No objections     Consultants Hired,         Guidelines
Training and/or
equipment supplied
* It is expected that Mr. Paskaralingam (Senior Advisor to the Prime Minister)
will chair the Challenge Fund Committee which xvill also include the heads of
the Ministry of Economic Reform Units including PERC and ERD
Project Costs
The total project costs will depend to some extent on government's ability to manage the reform agenda.
Preparing a bottom-up estimate from individual line ministry requests gathered during the identification
mission points to a total cost of between $10-$15m depending on the final criteria for acceptable
technical assistance and whether or not the state banks are included in this project. The table below
presents an approximate indication of the relative project components.
Components:
1. Strengthening Government Capacity
2. Consulting Technical Assistance
3. Mass Communications Strategy
4. Challenge Fund
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)



8
ISDS
This is a Technical Assistance project. Consultants and equipment will be provided to key ministries in
Colombo.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comtmnents: This classification was cleared with SASES on March 28th 2002 following a Safeguards Revew
Meeting on March 27th 2002. It was agreed that no separate environment analysis is mandated for the
project. However, the borrower will prepare a Framework for environmental screeninig and a procedure for
undertaking environmental audits of those enterprises with significant environmental risks.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes   _ No   . TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                          Yes *No       TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes *No       TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes *No     .TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes * No      TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes 0 No      TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                    Yes 0 No      TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*              Yes * No    . TBD
Projects in Intermational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            Yes 0 No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejutdice the final determination of the parties 'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Sumrmary of Key Safeguardl Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If inform7iation is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
This is a Technical Assistance project that will build the capacity of the Ministry of Economic Reforms,
Science and Technology to implement government's economic reform program. As the economic reforms
envisaged include pre-privatization restructuring of some state-owned enterprises that might have a
significant impact on the environment (e.g. Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and Ceylon Electricity Board)
it was decided that an environmental screening procedure would be adopted before TA was provided to
sub-projects. The environmental screening procedure will identify sub-projects that have potential
environimental issues that may require in-depth analysis. All such sub-projects will be subject to
environmental audits. Potential sub-projects that may require environmental audits include the proposed
separate business areas of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) such as bunkering, aviation fuel and
distribution; urban water supply and sanitation; transport sector projects; telecommunications; ports and
the Ceylon Electricity Board.
Since sub-projects seeking financial support from the Challenge Fund are yet to be identified, prepared and
appraised, conducting environmental screening and audits is not possible at this stage. Therefore,
sub-project speficic environmental issues cannot be identified at this stage. In view of this, a Framework
for outlining an environmental screening procedure and a protocol for conducting environmenital audits
will be prepared. This Framework will serve as a a template for undertaking environmental analysis once
the sub-projects have been identified.



9
ISDS
II.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more thanl one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Considering the propsoed economic reforms and the types of sub-projects that may be eligible for funding
from the Challenge Fund, it is anticipated that there will be no cumulative adverse environmental
impacts.
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
In facilitating increased private sector participation, this project might include advice on voluntary
redundancy schemes in state-owned enterprises. Any such schemes will be voluntary and therefore
adopted only through a participatory stakeholder consultation process. It is unlikely that such schemes
will have a negative social impact. However, in the event that adverse social impacts are identified
during sub-project preparation, the project will include provisions for remedial measures.
While the National Environment Act (NEA) has provisions for effective environmental regulation and
monitoring and makes no distinction between private or public sector enterprises, experience has shown
that the Central Environment Authority (CEA) has been much more effective in enforcing environmental
legislation on the private sector than on the public sector. Therefore, privatization of state-owned
enterprises is expected to result in significant improvements in environmental performance. Although it
is not possible to state with any certainty, long-term impacts of future activities in the project areas, it is
anticipated that privatization of state-owned enterprises will result in significant long tern improvements
in the local environment.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The path of economic reforms including privatization of state owned enterprises (SOEs) was chosen after
careful consideration of altematives. From an environmental viewpoint, the "no project" scenario would
result in continued poor environmental management of the SOEs with virtually no enforcement of
environimental regulations. The Government has attempted to improve management and accountability
under state ownership in the past with little success. Experience has shown that environmental
performance suffered the same fate. Therefore, privatization was chosen as an option not only to
improve management, accountability and financial performance of the SOEs but also to improve
environmental management of the enterprises. However, privatization may result in redundancies. Any
such schemes will be voluntary and therefore adopted only through a participatory stakeholder
consultation process.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
All sub-projects will be subject to environmental screening while sub-projects that have environmental
issues will undergo environmental audits according to the procedure described in the Framework to be
prepared by the Government. The Framework will be consistent with World Bank safeguard policies
and the National Environmental Act of Sri Lanka. MERST will have access to environmental expertise
to ensure that the Framework is being implemented by all sub-projects financed by the Challenge Fund.
Environmental Audits will be reviewed by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA). While the
CEA's track record of enforcement needs improvement, the Bank has experience of satisfactory
performance of the CEA in undertaking effective environmental assessments of complex projects.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The mass communications strategy will determine how all stakeholders are drawn into and informed of
the economic reform process. The strategy will build on the perceptions of privatization survey that has



10
ISDS
already been undertaken by the Bank's development communications unit.
Once it's capacity is developed the government's information unit will be responisible for ongoing efforts
to involve civil society, unions and other stakeholders in the reforn process.
In complementary activities the ILO hias been involved with government in developing tri-partite
channels of communication between government, the unions and the employers. This forum will serve
the purpose of allowing stakeholders to participate in all labor related issues.
The Framework will be subjected to public consultations and disclosure requirements of both the World
Bank and the Government of Sri Lanka and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop.
E. Safeguards Classif-cation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] S I. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[  S3. - No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



11
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-counitry" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Franmework.                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                         E-xpected     Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. None of the
above documents are required for this project.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Ismail Radwan                                 04/17/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Sumith Pilapitiya/Person/World Bank     04/25/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Paneer Selvam                              04/25/02
Sector Manager/Director:       Marilou Jane D. Uy                           07/16/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
$EARCN.,'      FEEDBACK       MTE MAP        SHOWCASE      F



