Report No. PID11394
Project Name             SRI LANKA-LK Economic Reform Technical (@)
Assistance
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   General transportation sector (30-);
General finance sector (30%);
Power (15%); Oil & gas (15%);
Water supply (109)
Project ID               P077586
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Economic Reforms Science
and Technology
Address:
Contact Person: Mr. Paskaralingam,
Senior Adviser to the Prime Minister
Tel: +94-1-434-876
Fax: +94-1-326-116
Email:
Ministry of Finance
Address: Treasury Building, Colombo 01,
Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Faiz Mohideen,
Director General External Resources
Department
Tel: +91-1-434-876
Fax: +94-1-447-633
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        September 4, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      September 6, 2002
Bank Approval Date       December 10, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector IssuesSri Lanka's economic performance has weakened in recent
years due to the protracted war, weakened governance and a continued
dominance of the public sector in economic activities, especially job
creation and resource transfers across groups. Per capita employment in
the public sector is the largest in Asia and provides employment to at
least 850,000 persons. Sri Lanka has over 150 statutory boards, public
corporations and public enterprises. With productivity in the public
sector well below that of the private sector, opportunities for growth and
employment have been foregone. Heavy regulation of the labor and land
markets as well as the inefficiency and shallowness of the financial
intermediation system have also constrained the productivity of the
private sector and remain key obstacles to putting the country on a higher
growth path. The fiscal situation is dominated by defense expenditure,
interest payments, civil service salaries, pensions, poorly targeted
subsidies and transfers to loss making SOEs which together account for 93%
of the total current outlay. There is little left room for development



expenditure. In 2001, GDP contracted by 1.25t for the first time since
independence in 1948. Moreover, rather than decreasing, the budget
deficit increased to almost ll   of GDP in 2001, the highest in the region
in terms of GDP percentage. Likewise the current account deficit increased
from 1.5? of GDP in 1998 to 3.75? in 1999 and to more than 7? in 2000.
Public debt grew to more than 100t of GDP in 2001 and total interest
payments are now by far the largest spending component. A significant
contribution to these worsening economic indicators are the continued,
huge losses posted by the state-owned corporations, especially Ceylon
Electricity Board (CEB) and Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) which have
failed to curb sufficiently their borrowing from the banking
system.Government has realized that these structural obstacles to
continued growth and development require urgent attention and that the
country stands at the cross roads from which it can chose a path of higher
growth based on free market principles and reduced state intervention in
the economy or it can fail to implement much needed reforms which will
plunge the country into economic and political crisis. Within this
context, the new Government has moved to promote peace and re-emphasize
the private sector as the main engine for future growth and employment.
Government has realized that moving to a higher growth path requires
pressing ahead with the ambitious structural reform agenda to reduce the
public sector's role in the economy, adapt public institutions to the
needs of a liberalized economy, improve the enabling environment for
private sector development, improve infrastructure in basic services, and
mobilize needed capital. This project will facilitate the implementation
of such reforms.Government StrategyThe Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) had
been in discussions with both the World Bank and the IMF on its economic
reform program for many months. In August 2001, the Bank reached
agreement with the previous administration on an IDA Private Sector
Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) contingent upon the achievement of a
number of objectives included in a broad reform matrix covering a large
number of sectors (see section Al above). Closely linked to the PSAC is
the IMF standby arrangement whose final tranche has been approved in early
September 2002. A possible IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) is touted for the future. Government is currently in the process
of establishing the groundwork for this medium term external funding
strategy by undertaking a poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP). The
PRSP consultations with civil society, donors and interested stakeholders
culminated in a local development forum chaired by the Prime Minister in
June 2002.    The new Government of Ranil Wickremesinghe came to power in
December 2001 with a mandate for peace and economic reform. With the
recent change of government comes a new impetus for reform. The primary
objective of the Government's development strategy is securing peace and
achieving significant transformation in the quality of life of the people
especially in rural areas through increased incomes, economic
modernization and invigoration of the rural economy. Prime Minister
Wickremesinghe's United National Party summed this up in their manifesto
slogan, "Let us join hands for peace and a new economic future".Government
has made tremendous progress in the desire to reach a peace settlement,
starting with a cease-fire agreement and re-opening of much of the North
East. The 2002 budget also sets out a new program of economic reform.
This has renewed the dialogue with the Bretton Woods institutions and
government is now looking for areas in which it can achieve rapid
changes. Against this backdrop, government has realized that it lacks the
technical and managerial capacity to implement the ambitious set of
-2 -



reforms within the proposed timeframe. Therefore, government has
requested an IDA credit to fund technical assistance that is required to
fill this gap and achieve its economic reform objectives.
2. Objectives
Objective: The proposed Economic Reform TA project will strengthen
government's capacity to implement its economic reform agenda. This will
be achieved by funding priority technical assistance that will provide
government with the executive capacity required to implement its reform
agenda. The implementation of government's economic reforms will in turn
expand the role of the private sector in the economy and put the country
on the path of  higher economic growth.     Link to IDA Private Sector
Adjustment Credit: The Bank has been in dialogue with the Government of
Sri Lanka (GOSL) on its medium-term economic reform objectives for some
time. In August 2001, GOSL requested IDA support for its proposed private
sector structural reform program. During the process of negotiations
concerning the conditionality of the PSAC it became apparent that GOSL
lacks the technical expertise and executive capacity that is required to
implement such an ambitious program of reforms. Government has therefore
requested technical assistance from IDA to fund the required capacity to
design, manage and implement the reforms.Scope: Government officials have
identified and confirmed the following five priority areas; n
Strengthening Government Capacity: support to building technical capacity
within the newly created Ministry of Economic Reforms and a limited number
of other stakeholder ministries. n Infrastructure: support to
implementing the reforms in priority sub-sectors: transport (including
rail and bus services), telecommunications, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
(CPC) and urban water supply and sanitation servives. Reforms in the
Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) that are not covered by the energy sector
restructuring project or ADB assistance may be included.n Financial
Sector: support to the privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
(SLIC), reforms in the state owned banks, and pension industry reforms,
capacity building of the insurance regulator (Sri Lanka Insurance Board)
and the superannuation benefit fund regulator as well as the privatization
of the Sri Lanka national lottery.n Strategic Communications: assistance
to a country-wide effort to create a constituency that would support far
reaching economic reform and increase awareness of the benefits of the
privatization agenda for the trade unions and the public. This will
include two-way dialogue with stakeholders including labor, employers and
government who would jointly design the details of the economic reform
process in a transparent manner.n Multi-sector Regulator: medium term
support to establish the multi-sector regulator for infrastructure and the
utilities. Initial support to the Public Utilities Commission for Sri
Lanka PUCSL has come from the Private Sector Infrastructure Development
Project (PSIDP) funds and PPIAF funds. This project will supplement this
assistance with support to drafting relevant legislation and staffing the
key positions.Although the scope of items included in the project remit is
broad, and may appear ambitious, it is not expected that the project will
be successful in achieving progress in all the aforementioned areas. At
this stage it is impossible to predict in which areas government will be
able to make progress. Therefore the project will at first include a
broad scope of reforms and will increasingly channel funds to sectors that
are successful in implementing reforms. Such a sectoral approach avoids
the risks associated with a more narrowly focused program of Technical
Assistance.
-3-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Structural reforms in the private and financial sectors are a key area of
Bank comparative advantage. Moreover, economic reform along with the
achievement of peace form the core of the Bank's strategy towards Sri
Lanka as well as Government's own strategy. By supporting Government's
key reform priorities, we would achieve a number of CAS and national
development objectives including; reducing the burden on the treasury,
increasing the dynamism of the economy through increased investment and
private sector participation, boosting medium term employment creation and
allowing resources to be directed away from loss making state-owned
enterprises to finance human development expenditures. The key elements
of the reforms, once implemented would provide strong and sound foundation
for medium term economic growth and justifies full IDA support. IDA will
then play a critical role in the medium term in supporting the agenda of
reforms under the proposed PSAC that is currently under preparation. The
task team feels that the Government's program is sufficiently well defined
and formulated with strong GOSL commitment and ownership and justifies
Bank support.Although other IFIs are active in Sri Lanka none are tacking
a lead in tackling this critical area. The IMF is narrowly focused on
macroeconomic stability and fiscal prudence touching on reform issues only
when they jeopardize fiscal targets. The ADB is involved in
infrastructure but tend to defer to the Bank's policy recommendations in
key sectors. JBIC is funding large physical investments in infrastructure
but has no policy dialogue with government.
4. Description
The project will consist of four components:(i)     Strengthening Government
Capacity, (especially in the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and
Technology).(ii)   Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance(iii) Mass
Communications Strategy (iv) Challenge FundIn order to effectively manage
the TA funds, the capacity of key government reforms ministries has to be
strengthened considerably. This has started already with the PPF
advance. TA projects that are already well-developed have been appraised
and pre-allocated the required funding. These projects are presented in
detail in Annex 2. The project will also address the need to build the
reform constituency and establish a two-way channel of communication
between the reformers and the people. This will be accomplished through
the government's mass communications strategy. The remainder of the
project funds will form a pool of technical assistance which reform-minded
sectoral ministries can apply for on a first-come, first-served basis.
This component is termed the Challenge Fund and will provide the project
with sufficient flexibility in meeting unforeseen needs that will arise
during the project implementation period.Project CostsPreparing a
bottom-up estimate from individual line ministry requests gathered during
the appraisal points to a total cost of approximately $15m. The table
below presents an approximate indication of the relative project
components.
1. Strengthening Government Capacity US$1.5m
2. Consulting Technical Assistance US$3.Om
3. Mass Communications Strategy US$1.5m
4. Challenge Fund US$9.Om
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $3.75
-4-



IBRD
IDA                      $11.25
Total Project Cost       $15.00
6. Implementation
The primary implementation agency would be the Ministry of Economic
Reforms, Science and Technology. The key counterpart within the ministry
will be the Prime Minister's Senior Adviser. Government has created a
project cell within ministry to oversee the project coordination. The
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance has been used to fund the core
technical consultants, required to strengthen the Ministry, on a contract
basis and they will then become the key counterparts for project
implementation.It is suggested that a project steering committee is
formed, chaired by the Senior Adviser to the PM and including the DG ERD,
Chairman PERC and the heads of the reform units. This steering committee
will undertake the project coordination, monitoring and management of all
four components of the project. MERST would liaise with relevant
ministries and state-owned enterprises as required to implement the reform
agenda.The DG ERD will be responsible for the financial management of the
project. It is highly likely that a full-time financial manager reporting
to the DG ERD will be necessary to monitor the financial position and
general progress of the project. This person would then be responsible
for managing the flow of resources to the project components, preparing
detailed statements of expenditure based on information received and
approved consulting expenditures incurred against which the Bank would
release funds. This individual would also be responsible for producing
timely progress reports. Detailed audits could be carried out during
project supervision. It is envisaged that this individual will also be
provided with upfront procurement training so that he/she will be able to
follow Bank procurement guidelines throughout the project duration.
7. Sustainability
Strengthening government's reform management capacity. Government is not
aiming for long term sustainability of its reform management teams. In
fact it wants to ensure the opposite that whatever additional capacity is
hired into government will disappear along with the need for such capacity
in 3-5 years time. Most of the staff of the reform ministries will be
hired on a contract basis. Government sees the ministry itself has being
established on basis of sunset clauses to ensure that what is created is a
task-oriented capacity rather than adding to the already bloated
bureaucracy. Putting the empahsis on creating local reform management
capacity and hiring Sri Lankan nationals either those available locally or
ex-pats will ensure that a sustainable capacity is created in the country
whether that capacity remains in government or moves to the private sector
following the successful implementation of the reform program.Economic
Reform Program: While any reform program can in theory be reversed it
will be difficult to reverse sales of assets to the private sector as this
will create a large and powerful mandate for and support to the refrom
process that will gain in strength as the benefits of reform are witnessed
by the public. In this context the reform program favored by the Bank
emphasizes the need for outright sale of assets to the private sector
wherever possible over the introduction of management contracts that can
then be canceled or can leave managers within the remit of government
influence. All the privatizations expected will require financial
stability and will be designed with a view to long term
- 5-



sustainability.Mass communications strategy: The mass communications
startegy includes the strengthening of capacity of the government's
information department based in the Ministry of Telecommunications. This
will ensure that once the immediate communications program is designed and
implemented that government's own department will be able to take on this
important task in the future.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank's recent experience with channeling technical assistance to
increase private participation in infrastructure through the Private
Sector Infrastructure Development Corporation (PSIDC) as well as TA
provided for under PPIAF and TA provided to the Central Bank all provide
valuable lessons for the proposed operation. Elsewhere in the region, the
recent Bank TA operations in India provide several lessons for the
proposed operation.Reform Timing and Management Capacity: One important
lesson is that in rushing to fulfill IFI conditions, the government can be
prone to over-commit itself. Government often agrees to move on too many
areas without realizing the technical and managerial capacity as well as
the political capital that is required to deliver on these requests. One
mitigating factor is the creation of a reform unit within the ministry or
a steering committee that is empowered to take hard decisions to move the
reform process forward. This arrangement is in place for the power sector
and is being created for the water sector. The economic reform TA will
follow this model with the creation of reform units within the Ministry of
Economic Reforms and the creation of a project steering committee.
Moreover the TA will be flexible enough with a large amount of unallocated
funding so that it can be directed to sectors that are able to progress
with urgently needed reforms. Government is not being asked to commit to
deliver unrealistic reform targets in each and every sector.Management
Turnover: In a period of less than 16 months the secretary of urban water
in Sri Lanka was changed more than 4 times. Each new incumbent had to
take time to familiarize himself with the key issues in the water sector
and chart a suitable course of action. However, the new government has
moved quickly in appointing reform-minded candidates in key positions
throughout the administration and has demonstrated its political
commitment to both implement the reform agenda and support reform-oriented
civil servants and politicians.Government Commitment: The new Government
in Sri Lanka has an ambitious reform agenda for increasing private sector
participation across sectors. Past experience reveals that sustained
political commitment to tackle the key reform issues, especially tariff
and labor, is difficult to achieve and has hindered private sector
participation in Sri Lanka. Reforms in the port, postal, and power
sectors, and more recently the water sector, have all moved slowly despite
substantial resources being spent to support the process over the few
years. The new Government is keen to implement its reform program within
their defined window of opportunity, i.e. until April 2004 when new
elections will be held, and have indicated their desire to drive the
implementation of the reform agenda from the highest political levels of
the Government. This is indicated by the Prime Minister himself taking on
the Minister's position at the Ministry of Policy Development. Using
Private Sector Participation as a Panacea: In many instances reform
agendas have failed as the underlying issues leading to the need for
reform were not well-though out. Governments have often thought that
introducing some form of private sector participation would be the answer
to a myriad of problems in a particular sector. However, the private
- 6 -



sector responds to incentives just as the public sector does and unless
these incentives are well aligned with government's reform objectives the
resulting program can end in failure. Two good examples of this can be
seen in Sri Lanka. The previous Government wished to introduce private
sector participation in the water sector without first raising the tariffs
to levels that could support full concessions. This ambiguity about some
of the assumptions concerning tariff levels resulted in confusion amongst
the consultants recruited to advise the process and contradictory advice.
Secondly the sale of Shell Lanka resulted in the transfer of a public
sector monopoly to to the private sector and has created a situation of
restricted access and supernormal profits both of which set a poor
precedent for support to future privatizations. These issues need to be
carefully thought through prior to privatization.Ineffective Project
Monitoring: For a project of this nature, it is essential to ensure that
the required information for financial management is collected and that a
check is kept on the extent to which funds are committed and disbursed.
To overcome this potential problem this project will start with the
steering committee appointing a full time financial managers as suggested
in various sections above.Clear Eligibility Criteria: The economic reform
TA in India shows that clear identification of up-front eligibility
criteria for access to TA funds, and in particular clear outputs from the
TA, provides incentives for efficient usage of the TA. This proposed
operation highlights the need for strong borrower commitment and action
plans to follow through on reforms identified as priorities. We will
ensure that this angle is covered in discussions with government
counterparts during appraisal. In that context we will seek to draft and
agree on clear eligibility criteria and operational principles for the
project.Delays in Procurement: Delays often result from a lack of
understanding of the different evaluation methods and the need to follow
bureaucratic administrative procedures. In order to maintain the reform
momentum, the project has started quickly with the approval of a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. More support will be provided both
from the procurement hub and the local office on procurement issues which
for the smaller sub-projects will be handled by the project management
unit within the Ministery of Economic Reforms. Larger projects will
require a procurement agent funded under the proejct. It is suggested
that the project financial manager is selected at the beginning of the
project and is trained in procurement issues so that he/she can act as a
focal point for all procurement matters.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  An adverse impact on the environment is unlikely as
this is a technical assistance project which will fund consultancy
studies, training and minor purchases of equipment. As such no major
environmental issues are foreseen. However, each sub-project will be
reviewed to ensure that if any issues concerning environmental impact
arise that require attention under the Bank's safeguard policies they will
be addressed. An environmental framework has been drafted that lays out
the procedures to follow for such project reviews.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ismail Radwan
-7-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: + 1 202 473 3547
Fax: +1 202 522 1145
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
September 13, 2002.
-8-



