Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25066-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR THE
ECONOMIC REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6,2002
Finance and Private Sector Development
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 6th 2002)
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (SLR)
SLR1 = US$0.0104
US$1 = Rs96.15
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 st -- December 31 st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Loan
BOI           Board of Investments
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEB          Ceylon Electricity Board
CFO           Chief Financial Officer
CPC           Ceylon Petroleum Company
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EPL           Environmental Protection License
ERD           External Resources Department
FSRC         Financial Sector Reform Commitee
IBSL          Insurance Board of Sri Lanka
IFI           International Financial Institution
ILO           International Labor Organization
IOC           Indian Oil Company
IPO           Initial Public Offering
MERST         Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science & Technology
PERC         Public Enterprise Reform Commission
PPIAF         Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSAC          Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PSIDC         Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company Ltd
PSP           Private Sector Participation
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PUC           Public Utilities Commission
RTC           Regional Transport Companies
SLIC          Sn Lanka Insurance Company
SLPA          Sri Lanka Ports Authority
SLT           Sri Lanka Telecom
TEWA         Termination of Employment of Workers Act
TRC           Telecommunications Regulatory Commission
VRS           Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director   Peter Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:  Joseph Del Mar Pemia
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ismail Radwan



SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     15
3. Benefits and target population                                                    15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         19
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          22
2. Financial                                                                         22
3. Technical                                                                         22
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                     24
6. Social                                                                            26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    28
2. Cntical risks                                                                      28



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   31
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          32
2. Other                                                                            32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 42
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             43
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  44
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          57
MAP(S)
IBRD 27509



SRI LANKA
Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: November 6, 2002                            Team Leader: Ismail Radwan
Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Del Mar Pemia     Sector(s): General transportation sector (30%), General
Country Manager/Director: Peter C. Harrold       finance sector (30%), Power (15%), Oil & gas (15%),
Project ID: P077586                               Water supply (10%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Infrastructure services for private sector
development (P), Other financial and private sector
development (S), Regulation and competition policy (S)
.Project Financing Data_
[ Loan      [X] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $15.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                              Service charge: 0.75%
,Firanrcing Plan (US$m):  Source                            Loal          Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       3.75           0.00          3.75
IDA                                                            1.50          13.50         15.00
Total:                                                         5.25          13.50          18.75
Borrower: DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUB. OF SRI LANKA
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC REFORMS, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology
Contact Person: Mr. Paskaralingain, Senior Adviser to the Prime Minister
Tel: +94-1-484-503           Fax: +94-1-431-381           Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance
Address: Treasury Building, Colombo 01, Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Charita Ratwatte, Secretary to the Treasury
Tel: +91-1-434-876           Fax: +94-1-447-633           Email:
Address: Ministry of Science and Technology, 320, TB Jayah Mawatha, Col.10
Contact Person: Mr. Ananda Gunasekara, Project Coordinator
Tel: 94-1 699272           Fax: 94-1-676-993           Email: "Ananda Gunesekara" <icibpm@sltnet.lk>
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2002        0    .   2004      2005       22006,     207        2008
Annual      1.00      3.00       4.00       3.00      2.00       2.00
Cumulative     1.00       4.00      8.00      11.00      13.00      15.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/10/2003  Expected closing date: 06/30/2008
OCS PA F- P R -. 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Objective: The proposed Economic Reform TA project will strengthen government's capacity to
implement its economic reform agenda. This will be achieved by funding priority technical assistance
that will provide government with the executive capacity required to implement its reform agenda. The
implementation of government's economic reforms will in turn expand the role of the private sector in the
economy and put the country on the path of higher economic growth and faster proverty reduction.
Link to IDA Future Adjustment Lending: The Bank has been in dialogue with the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL) on its medium-term economic reform objectives for some time. In August 2001, GOSL
requested IDA support for its proposed private sector structural reform program. During the process of
negotiations concerning the conditionality of a proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC), it
became apparent that GOSL lacks the technical expertise and executive capacity that is required to
implement such an ambitious program of reforms. Government has therefore requested technical
assistance from IDA to fund the required capacity to design, manage and implement the reforms.
Subsequently, government has reached an agreement with the Bank not to launch a PSAC but to support
the government's reform efforts through a series of poverty reduction support credits (PRSCs).
Nevertheless, the proposed Technical Assistance (TA) is still required to implement the reforms included
in the poverty reduction strategy.
Scope: Government officials have identified and confirmed the following five priority areas (see Annex
2);
*      Strengthening Government Capacity: A need to strengthen the technical capacity of the key
reform units including; the newly created Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology (later
referred to as Ministry of Economic Reforms or MERST), Public Enterprise Reform Commission
(PERC), Public Interest Program Unit (PIPU) and Pensions Reform Unit. A request to support the
productivity unit within the Ministry of Labor was also received directly from the ministry and will be
eligible for support. It was agreed that this component of the TA could also be used to fund initial
activities in the broader area of public administration reform.
*      Infrastructure: support to implement the reforms in priority sub-sectors: transport (including
rail and bus services), telecommunications, petroleum sector, power sector, port and airport services and
urban water supply and sanitation services. The reform agenda of GOSL would be supported by the
Economic Policy Committee of the Cabinet and a concept paper outlining the reform strategy would be
submitted to the Bank. The assistance to be provided by the project may include: (i) the preparation of a
reform strategy, (ii) establishment of regulatory mechanisms through the Public Utility Commission or
any other statutory bodies as applicable, and (iii) transactions support to PERC and/or line ministries to
carry out privatization and private sector participation (PSP) transactions.
*      Financial Sector: support for reforms in the state owned banks, and pension industry reforms,
initial capacity building of the insurance regulator (Sri Lanka Insurance Board), the superannuation
benefit fund regulator and eventually the non-bank single financial sector regulator and the independent
Public Debt Office.
*      Strategic Communications: assistance to a country-wide effort to create a constituency that
would support far reaching economic reform and increase awareness of the benefits of the privatization
agenda for the trade unions and the public. This will include two-way dialogue with stakeholders
including labor, employers and government who would jointly design the details of the economic reform
process in a transparent manner. It will also provide funds for public awareness campaigns for specific
sector reforms.
-2-



*      Economic Regulation: support to establish the multi-sector regulator for infrastructure and the
Public Utilities Commission (PUC) of Sri Lanka. Funds from the proposed credit will initially be used to
develop procedural and human resources guidelines for the commission, and to assist it in its regulation
of the power and water sectors. The PUC may be asked to regulate other infrastructure sectors and credit
funds may be used for these purposes later in the project. The proposed credit will also be used to
strengthen the regulatory framework for the communications sector, which will be under the purview of
the Telecoms Regulatory Commission or its successor.
Although the scope of items included in the project remit is broad, and may appear ambitious, it is not
expected that the project will be fully successful in achieving progress in all the aforementioned areas.
At this stage it is impossible to predict in which areas government will be able to make progress.
Therefore the project will at first include a broad scope of reforms and will increasingly channel funds to
sectors that are successful in implementing reforms. Such a sectoral approach avoids the risks associated
with a more narrowly focused program of Technical Assistance.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Key performance indicators for the project are as follows:
*      Strengthening Government Capacity: The newly created ministries of Economic Reform and
Policy Development lack the professional staff able to drive the reforms identified above. Key
performance indicators under this category would include: (i) hiring executive staff preferably from the
private sector as per the Government plan and forming task-oriented teams, (ii) drawing up a detailed
roadmap of sector reforms with milestones and performance targets including specific technical
assistance inputs over the medium term, (iii) developing terms of reference for consulting and other
inputs required, and (iv) completing the consulting assignments, including the reforms and transactions
outlined below. These performance indicators would be used to judge progress within MERST, PERC,
PIPU and the Pensions Reform Office.
*      Infrastructure Reforms: Key milestones in the reform program could include the following: (i)
the sale of the remaining govermnent shares of Sri Lanka Telecom, Shell Gas Lanka and Sri Lankan
Airlines, (ii) the un-bundling of Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) with the establishment of separate
generation, distribution, transmission and bulk power companies with a transparent framework for
procuring future power generation capacity from the private sector, (iii) the signing of lease agreements
for private sector participation in urban water supply and sanitation in selected secondary towns and
significant progress towards concessioning greater Colombo water and sewerage services (iv) the
abolition of the existing monopoly of Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) on importation and sale of
petroleum products, (v) private sector participation in passenger and freight rail services, (vi) divestiture
of a significant portion of government ownership in Regional Transport (Bus) Companies to private
sector with management control, and (vii) liberalization of port operations through implementing the land
lord port concept.
*      Financial Sector Reforms: Completing the privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
(SLIC). Cabinet approval for the Superannuation Benefit Funds Regulatory Bill and a non-bank single
financial sector regulatory authority and the preparation of the pension reforms agenda. Training and
capacity building of the financial sector regulator and independent public debt office. Successful
implementation of the People's Bank restructuring and privatization.
*      Strategic Communications: Building consensus on the economic reform agenda will be
achieved by: (i) establishing, within MERST a communications unit which designs and guides
implementation of the overall communications strategy, coordinating activities with relevant
State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), ministries and departments, (ii) designing the communications strategy
based on market segmentation and a comprehensive needs analysis of all relevant stakeholder groups,
- 3 -



including those in the rural and (if possible) the North East regions, (iii) supporting regular fora for
tripartite discussions between government, employers and the unions, and (iv) measuring, through
carrying out base-line and mid-term surveys, a positive change in knowledge/attitudes/actions of
stakeholders as a result of the communications activities.
*      Economic Regulation: Key performance indiactors include: (i) Establishment of the PUC
through the hiring of commissioners and key staff, (ii) development and issuance of licenses and other
key regulatory documents (e.g. detailed regulations), and (iii) development of new framework for
regulation of communications sector.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS Report No. 15633-CE, dated May 21 st 1996  Date of latest CAS discussion: June 13th
1996*
The Bank's strategy as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is based on promoting private
sector-led growth in a manner that is consistent with the country's traditional concern for social welfare
and equity. The strategy highlights the need to liberalize the economy and generate employment,
improve living conditions and promote equity and social harmony. Bank assistance has been directed at
supporting macroeconomic and sector reforms as a framework for effective poverty reducation through
private sector investment and growth.
The CAS is built on four pillars:
(i) Fiscal discipline
(ii) Development of a policy environment for private investment
(iii) Social development and poverty alleviation
(iv) Governance and legal reforms
This project will go to the heart of the first and second objectives. By funding technical assistance
support to preparation, implementation and institutional development the credit focuses on the following
CAS objectives included under point (ii) above;
*      Strengthening the regulatory/policy framework for private investment, especially in
infrastructure;
*      Continued support for privatization
*      Financial sector reforms
*Note: The CAS progress report No. IDA/R99-190 was discussed by the Board on January 19, 1999,
however, this discussion refers to the last CAS discussion only. Preparation of a new CAS is underway;
Board presentation is expected in March 2003.
-4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
Sri Lanka's economic performance has weakened in recent years due to the protracted war, weakened
governance and the continued dominance of the public sector in economic activities, especially in job
creation and resource transfers across groups. Per capita employment in the public sector is the largest in
Asia and the public sector provides employment to at least 850,000 persons. Sri Lanka has over 150
statutory boards, public corporations and public enterprises. With productivity in the public sector well
below that of the private sector, opportunities for growth and employment have been foregone. Heavy
regulation of the labor and land markets as well as the inefficiency and shallowness of the financial
intermediation system have also constrained the productivity of the private sector and remain key
obstacles to putting the country on the path to higher growth and faster poverty reduction.
The fiscal situation is dominated by defense expenditure, interest payments, civil service salaries,
pensions, poorly targeted subsidies and transfers to loss making SOEs which together account for 93% of
the total current outlay. There is little room left for development expenditure. In 2001, GDP contracted
(by 1.25%) for the first time since independence in 1948. Moreover, rather than decreasing, the budget
deficit increased to almost 11% of GDP in 2001. Likewise the current account deficit increased from
1.5% of GDP in 1998 to 3.75% in 1999 and to more than 7% in 2000. Public debt grew to more than
100% of GDP in 2001 and interest payments are now by far the largest spending component. A
significant contribution to these worsening economic indicators are the continued, huge losses posted by
the state-owned corporations, especially Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) and Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation (CPC) which have failed to curb sufficiently their borrowing from the banking system.
Government has realized that these structural obstacles to continued growth and development require
urgent attention and that the country stands at the crossroads from which it can chose a path of higher
growth based on free market principles and reduced state intervention in the economy or it can fail to
implement much needed reforms which will plunge the country into economic and political crisis.
Within this context, the new Government, elected in December 2001, has moved to promote peace and
re-emphasize the private sector as the main engine for future growth and employment. Government has
realized that moving to a higher growth path requires pressing ahead with the ambitious structural reform
agenda to reduce the public sector's role in the economy, adapt public institutions to the needs of a
liberalized economy, improve the enabling environment for private sector development, improve
infrastructure in basic services, and mobilize needed capital. This project will facilitate the
implementation of such reforms.
Government Strategy
The new Government of Ranil Wickremesinghe came to power in December 2001 with a mandate for
peace and economic reform. With this change comes a new impetus for reform. The primary objective
of the Government's development strategy is securing peace and achieving significant transformation in
the quality of life of the people especially in rural areas through increased incomes, economic
modernization and invigoration of the rural economy. Prime Minister Wickremesinghe's United National
Party summed this up in their manifesto slogan, "Let us join hands for peace and a new economic future".
Government has made tremendous progress in the desire to reach a peace settlement, starting with a
cease-fire agreement in February 2001 and re-opening of much of the North East. The 2002 budget also
- 5-



sets out a new program of economic reform. This has renewed the dialogue with the Bretton Woods
institutions and government is now looking for areas in which it can achieve rapid changes.
The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) had been in discussions with the World Bank, the IMF and the
ADB on its economic reform program for some time. In September 2002, an agreement was reached to
base future adjustment lending within the context of the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP). Government is currently in the process of establishing the groundwork for this medium term
external funding strategy. It has undertaken PRSP consultations with civil society, donors and interested
stakeholders that have culminated in a local development forum chaired by the Minister of Finance in
June 2002. Once the PRSP is complete the World Bank will provide adjustment assistance through a
three-tranche Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). Closely linked to the PRSC is the IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) which is also being linked to the PRSP. The next step in this
process, a joint-WB IMF staff appraisal will take place in October 2002.
Against this backdrop, government has realized that it lacks the adequate technical and managerial
capacity to implement the ambitious set of reforms within the proposed timeframe. Therefore,
government has requested an IDA credit to fund technical assistance that is required to fill this gap and
achieve its economic reform objectives.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
SECTOR ISSUES
Overall Reform Program
State-Owned Enterprise Reform: Although Sri Lanka has a fair track record in terms of privatization,
especially in the plantation industries, much remains to be done in terms of reducing public sector
involvement in economic activities. Infrastructure services and basic commodities have been priced
below cost, placing an unsustainable burden on the public finances and resulting in huge operating losses
by SOEs that have contributed to an unsustainable budget deficit. The government has begun to address
this issue with the increase in electricity tariffs and the introduction of automatic price adjustment
formulae for petroleum products.
Initial efforts must focus on the enormous losses (estimated at around Rs25bn during the past two years)
of the following enterprises and government departments: Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, Ceylon
Electricity Board, Sri Lanka Railways, Regional (public sector bus) Transport Companies and Sri Lanka
Post. Although the Sri Lanka Ports Authority continues to make an accounting profit, its staff
complement could be reduced by as much as half. Tariff increases suggested by the IMF, and partially
implemented will start the reform process by stemmning the flow of losses.
Moreover, poor service (institutionalized power cuts, lack of safe drinking water, etc.) is also a problem
that needs to be remedied by a comprehensive reform program that would place large, loss-making SOEs
under a "reorganization" program aimed at improving their governance, stemming operating losses,
restructuring them operationally and financially, and preparing them for privatization. This process has
started with a focus on CPC, CEB and the state-owned banks.
- 6-



Labor Market Reforms: Labor market reforms are key to every sector. Unemployment remains high in
Sri Lanka due to the protection of formal sector workers through the Termination of Employment of
Workers Act (TEWA) which severely restricts the ability of employers, in firms with more than 15 staff,
to terminate redundant workers. In consultation with unions and employers, government is planning to
amend the power of the TEWA provisions and limit the role of the commissioner of labor. Govermment
will also define a minimum severance package for redundancy, balancing affordability by employers and
adequacy for workers' safety net. The proposed credit will support government in its labor reforms
through financing the strategic communications component and appropriate structural changes in the
Ministry of Labor.
Creating the Enabling Environment: The government has moved quickly to end Board of Investment
(BoI) tax holidays and implement the appropriate policies to establish a level playing field and ease
market entry and exit. The dual investment system perpetuated by the BOI represented a significant
drain on the public purse through lost taxes, opportunities for corruption and lack of attention to easing
regulations and restrictions on non BOI companies, especially SMEs which continue to face a hostile
investment environment. The companies act will also have to be amended to facilitate the creation and
operation of private businesses. Bankruptcy legislation may also have to be revised to ease exit for failed
firms.
Infrastructure Reforms
Telecommunications: Much progress has been achieved in the telecommunications sector with the
partial privatization of Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT), issuance of two fixed wire-less local loop (WLL)
licenses and presence of four mobile service providers. Government wishes to privatize its remaining
holding in SLT and has already appointed financial advisors to manage the Initial Public Offering (IPO)
of 15% of equity of SLT. Additional reforms in the sector are needed to prepare for the expiration of the
SLT monopoly on international voice and data telephony, including strengthening the independence and
authority of the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (TRC) and licensing other international
service providers. De-facto, there are several international service providers operating under conflicting
licenses. This siuation has led to litigation with regards to the provision of enhanced voice service
providers. The initial task is to clean up the license regime and introduce a streamlined regulatory regime
to improve the provision of telecommunications services.
Following a process of wide consultation, government has adopted major policy decisions on the telecom
sector including the opening up of international gateways through a class licensing regime. Government
has also adopted a gradual approach to technology-neutral licensing. Implementation actions including
the establishment of a comprehensive interconnectivity framework are already underway. The
government has already taken action utilizing the Project Preparation Facility of the credit to harmonize
the existing licenses and the interconnection agreements between the operators and to strengthen the
spectrum management capacity of Telecom Regulatory Commission (TRC). The proposed credit would
provide support to effectively regulate spectrum, telecom, cable and broadcasting under a new entity that
will succeed the Telecom Regulatory Commission.
Electricity: The power sector in Sri Lanka is dominated by the vertically integrated state owned Ceylon
Electricity Board (CEB). The CEB is undergoing a financial crisis mainly due to lack of adequate
generation capacity and the recourse to expensive emergency thermal generation. There has been a delay
in passing down the resultant cost increases to the consumers due to political considerations that
prevailed during 2001. These financial problems are compounded by the weak managerial capacity at
- 7 -



CEB, the lack of managerial incentives and lack of accountability in the present vertically integrated
industry structure. The government has taken effective measures to increase electricity tariffs by 40% in
June 2002 and increase the collection ratio from consumers. At present CEB remains saddled with a
massive short term debt overhang of approximately US$150 million and operates on cash break-even
basis.
The government is also committed to improve the managerial autonomy of the power sector by
restructuring the industry into separate generation, distribution and transmission and bulk power
companies. Although this restructuring process falls short of privatization, it is expected that the
successor entities of CEB would enjoy better incentives and accountability and reduced political
interference. This initiative supported by ADB technical assistance is coupled with the establishment of
an independent regulatory framework for the sector through the Public Utility Commission (PUC). The
government has already gazetted the PUC Act and the new Electricity Act providing for the economic
regulation of the sector through PUC. It is also intended to provide technical assistance to the bulk
power company to establish a transparent power generation capacity and dispatch model from the private
sector as a medium term measure to reduce the prevailing high cost of thermal power generation. In the
event government decides to invite the private sector to acquire an equity stake in the successor entities
of CEB, the proposed credit may consider supporting transaction advice requested by government.
The proposed credit could also fund technical assistance to the bulk power company to establish a
transparent power generation capacity procurement and dispatch model, once the unbundling process is
completed. This would enable the new private sector entrants as well as existing Independent Power
Producers (IPPs) to effectively compete with the state owned generation companies. This would also
create the enabling environment for new IPPs to enter the generation system in a more transparent
manner while sticking to the least cost generation expansion plan.
The proposed credit will also assist in strengthening PUC by developing the key regulatory instruments
initially for the power and water sectors as provided for in the respective industry acts, and by helping
the PUC to develop processes for ensuring transparency and stakeholder participation in the regulatory
process.
Petroleum: A monopoly on the petroleum sector, plus low and infrequent price increases and
government subsidies to finance the resulting huge losses, has resulted in an inefficient and poorly
managed sector characterized by distorted prices and corresponding incentives. Government has moved
to introduce an automatic price adjustment mechanism (although following its introduction it was refined
to remove the debt recovery charge). Govemment is also moving to reduce the content of lead and sulfur
in petroleum products through appropriate regulation with Bank support.
The government has decided on a reform strategy for the petroleum sector by abolishing the existing
monopoly of Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) for importation and distribution of petroleum
products by introducing two new players. The government has already selected Indian Oil Corporation
(IOC) as one and the other would be selected through a bidding process. The infrastructure facilities of
CPC used for importation, storage and distribution of petroleum products would be spun off as a separate
company to be equally owned by the three players. The existing refinery would remain with CPC, but
will have to improve its efficiency to compete with the new entrants who would be importing refined
products. Although this proposed industry structure is far from an ideal industry structure characterized
by free entry and full liberalization, this is an improvement from the prevailing structure of state owned
monopoly player dominating the entire sector.
The government has indicated their interest in obtaining technical assistance through the proposed credit
- 8 -



for valuing the assets of the infrastructure company and managing the bidding process for the third
player. It is also possible that regulation of the petroleum sector would be brought under the PUC. This
requires the enactment of an industry act for the petroleum sector and the proposed credit may be utilize
to procure the technical / legal assistance required to draft the act as well as to establish regulatory
instruments within PUC to effectively regulate the petroleum sector under the new industry framework as
outlined above.
Water Supply and Sanitation: One-third of the population are without access to safe water and
investment needs in the sector are considerable. Government's objective for reforming the sector is to
introduce private sector management where feasible. The govermnent has shown keen interest in moving
ahead with two pilot secondary towns (Galle-Kalutara and Greater Negamob) through private sector
participation (PSP) initiatives currently supported by IDA through the Private Sector Infrastructure
Development Project (PSIDC Cr. 2880-CE). The government has established the Water Sector Reform
Unit at Ministry of Housing and Plantation Infrastructure which is making significant progress in
defining the transaction structure for PSP in the two pilot projects. There has been progress on the
legislative front as well where the government has drafted the Water Services Reform Bill consisting of
proposed amendments to the NWSDB Act to enable NWSDB to enter into concession and lease contracts
with PSP operators as well as the statutory provisions for Water Sector Regulations through the PUC.
The government has also expressed interest to concession the Greater Colombo water and sewerage
services to the private sector.
The proposed credit is expected to take over from PSIDP, the funding of consultants working on two
pilot secondary town PSP transactions after the closure of PSIDP in June 2003. The preparatory work for
the Greater Colombo PSP transaction, as well as the implementation support depending on the
govermment commitment to move forward with the transaction, would also be provided through the
proposed credit.
Ports: Although Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) continues to make an accounting profit it is
inefficient, employing at least 2 if not 3 times more staff than necessary. This has resulted in high
shipping costs paid by Sri Lankan import and export businesses, and the loss of transshipment traffic. As
a first reform step, the government signed a concession agreement in 1998 with South Asia Gateway
Terminals Ltd., a private company sponsored by John Keells and P&O, to operate and expand the Queen
Elizabeth Quay in Colombo Port. Following this, government intended to introduce a Landlord Port
Strategy* although additional reforms have not been forthcoming. The government plans to corporatize
the Jaya Container Terminal under autonomous management but has not been willing to concession the
operation to the private sector, which would be in line with a landlord port concept, given strong labor
union resistance. The implementation of a landlord port framework is also critical for the $1 billion
South Harbor expansion project that SLPA is planning to attract future transshipment traffic and that is
necessary to accommodate post panamax size ships. The government has not shown an interest in
implementing reforms in the port sector in the short term, nevertheless this remains an important sector
and may present an significant opportunity for TA through the proposed credit in the medium term.
*A landlord port (as a public authority) provides the port infrastructure (fairways, sites, roads and quays), while
superstructure (cranes, warehouses, etc) and stevedoring labor are owned /employed by private terminal operators.
-9-



Rail: Similarly to CEB and CPC, low tariffs and poor managerial performance at the rail department
have resulted in losses last year of Rsl.8bn or 23% of all transfers to public corporations and Rs4bn over
the last ten years. Government is considering addressing overstaffing, introducing tariffs that recover the
cost of operation and improvements in management through private sector participation where
appropriate. This will, among other things, require amendment of the Railway Ordinance to allow open
access policy. In 2001, PPLAF (Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility)-funded consultants were
mobilized to recommend a public-private partnership strategy for a selected rail passenger corridor and
for all rail freight. Partly due to political uncertainty that prevailed during 2001, progress on this
initiative has been halted. Once government adopts a clear strategy for PSP in the rail sector, the
proposed credit could facilitate the implementation of reforms in the rail sector.
Posts: Government policy on posts is to: (i) set up more private post offices to compete with the postal
department, (ii) liberalize the domestic courier sector to open up the collection, distribution and delivery
of mail to private firms, and (iii) reduce operating costs of the postal department. The operating costs are
Rs200m a year of which Rs 142m is attributed to the free services provided by the department to other
government line agencies. All of these initiatives could be eligible for support under the TA. The
department is also considering a possible Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme (VRS) scheme. The design
of a suitable VRS could be supported through the TA, while severance packages could be funded through
future adjustment lending.
Bus Sector: The government has embarked on a reform strategy aimed at inviting private sector
participation in state owned Regional Transport Companies (RTC). The RTCs currently control a 35%
market share of the commuter bus services and compete with the small scale private operators. The RTCs
are poorly managed, over staffed (i.e., over 40,000 staff for 5,000 operating buses) and subsidized by the
treasury to meet the shortfall in operating cash flows. The private bus operators also lack scale
economies and suffer from low fare regime administratively fixed by the government. The regulatory
framework for the bus transport sector is fragmented with overlapping regulatory responsibilities vested
with Provincial Councils and the National Transport Commission.
The government has already invited offers from the private sector to acquire a 39% stake in RTCs with
joint management control. The new investors are also required to inject additional funding to the
companies in the form of debt financing guaranteed by the government. The RTCs are required to keep
the existing employees and provide the essential services currently provided for which they would
continue to receive government subsidies. However, there has been lack of interest from the private
operators to acquire an equity stake in the RTCs and the bidding process has been postponed several
times during the last couple of months.
The PPF of the proposed credit has offered limited assistance to the government in undertaking the ass
valuations of the RTCs and some preparatory work for establishing a regulatory framework for the
sector. The Bank has also provided written comments to the government, emphasizing the importance of
properly sequencing the reforms and the need to establish a transparent regulatory framework prior to
inviting the private sector to acquire these companies. Future assistance to the bus sector would depend
on the outcome of the on-going bidding process and review of government's proposed strategy by a Bank
transport sector specialist.
- 10-



Financial Market Reforms
Overview: The reluctance of the government to proceed with the financial sector reforms during late
1990's required the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) to conduct limited reforms creating a conducive
environment for broader reforms. The CBSL led the reforms by initiating a major restructuring of the
Central Bank with the support of the IMF and the Bank by redefining its major objectives. The CBSL
has decided to focus on its primary objectives: price stability and financial sector stability and phase out
of its non-core functions of managing public debt, development finance, managing employee's provident
fund (EPF) and other ancillary functions. However, the new political regime is supportive of much
broader financial sector reforms and the government has set up a Financial Sector Reforms Committee
(FSRC) representing CBSL, Ministry of Finance and the private sector. The FSRC set up several
taskforces to look into reforms in the CBSL, state commercial banks, public debt management, financial
legal and regulatory framework, foreign exchange management, securities market, insurance and
pensions.
Banking Sector: The commercial banking sector is dominated by two large public sector banks that are
inefficient, crowd out the private sector and allow state directed credit to be channeled to defaulting
state-owned and private enterprises. The high intermediation cost of the state banks also propagates
inefficiencies in the private sector. The banks suffer from poor governance and weak management that in
turn have led to a high rate of non-performing loans, huge financial losses and the need for repeated
re-capitalizations. Government has introduced private sector management to both banks with
corresponding improvements in performance. More recently, government has accepted the findings of
the joint World Bank and IMF state bank reforms advisory mission and is moving to reform and
restructure the People's Bank for eventual privatization of commercial activities. The letter of comfort
from the government for the Peoples Bank and also the sovereign guarantees provided for SOE credit
have been withdrawn exerting pressure on both state commercial banks to initiate major restructuring.
Given the banking sector's history of repeated re-capitalizations and failed restructuring, it is suggested
that the TA only support restructuring plans that are produced within the context of a commitment to
privatize. The government is also exploring the possibility of setting up an Asset Management Company
to expedite the restructuring process and recoveries of bad loans. However, the TA would support such
an initiative only if it is accompanied by fundamental bank reforms. Already some of the reforms efforts
are supported under the CBSL Strengthening Project while technical assistance and grant funds are
available from the ADB and USAID.
Insurance: The insurance market is dominated by the state-owned Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
(SLIC). The govemment has established a regulatory agency for the insurance industry, however, it
currently has limited capacity to perform its functions effectively. GOSL plans to improve the insurance
industry by privatizing the sector, providing a level-playing field and a better regulatory framework to
ensure efficient service delivery, improve governance and long-term sustainability with assistance from
the TA. Government has already sold 51 % of the shares of National Insurance Corporation, one of
biggest insurance companies and is preparing for the rapid privatization of SLIC. Government has also
already reduced legal restrictions on the operations of insurance companies (for example, restrictions
limiting foreign ownership, investments in securities other than government securities, and reinsurance
with foreign insurance companies), and is planning to limit its role to the regulation and supervision of a
private insurance sector.
Pension Sector: The pension sector is again dominated by the state and characterized by the familiar
problems of high cost of delivery, administrative inefficiencies, market distortions due to political
intervention, etc. In addition, pensions are not portable which in turn restrict labor mobility. The
government pension schemes are non-contributory and locked into a low salary regime. Given the
- 11 -



demographic changes in Sri Lanka, the population projections forecast that by 2025, those over 60 years
would make up 20% of the population. Despite these shortcomings, compared to other countries, the
situation in pensions in Sri Lanka has many positive attributes. There is a well-established framework of
coverage which reaches a significant portion of the employed and initiatives are in place to extend the
reach of social protection. Reform measures to be supported by the TA include improvements to the
management of provident funds and measures to liberalize fund investments as well as strengthening the
planned regulatory agency for the sector. The government has set up a task force for pension reforms
representing all stakeholders and would coordinate all reform initiatives relating to the pension reforms.
The taskforce has made a request to the mission to support the establishment of a pension reforms office
for this purpose and they will liaise closely with the Ministry of Labor and Employment and the
International Labor Organization.
Public Debt Management: As part of the CBSL restructuring efforts, the FSRC recommended setting up
of an independent public debt office. The government also agreed to join the IMF-Bank joint assessment
of public debt which will be undertaken by a joint team of the government and the Bank-IMF staff.
Non-Bank Financial Sector Regulator: The cabinet has approved setting up of a non-bank financial
sector regulator covering the Securities Exchange Commission, Pensions, Insurance, Accounting
Standards Monitoring Board and Anti-money laundering. There is a possibility that the rural finance and
micro finance institutions will also be brought under the same regulatory framework. Already, ADB
consultants are in the process of identifying the model and the organization structure for this institution.
Therefore, establishment of the superannuation regulatory authority is an interim measure to expedite the
process of permitting the private sector to set up provident funds. The government intends the non-bank
financial sector regulator to be a self-funded authority and therefore, they will require funds for capacity
building only at the initial stage.
Strategic Communications
In order to maintain support for the economic reform program, government intends to undertake a
communications campaign that will raise awareness of the benefits of economic reform while increasing
government's capacity to understand and respond to the concerns of key stakeholders during the reform
process: A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize the issue of privatization
and encourage the public to view reform as a pro-active choice that will promote economic development,
improve service delivery and increase opportunities for individuals. The communications cell within
MERST will execute this strategic communications campaign.
The cell will be staffed by two to three communications experts hired from the private sector. A local
communications manager has been identified, with additional staffing requirements to be determined.
International expertise will be sought from reputed communications firms that have led similar initiatives
in other countries undertaking massive structural reform. A number of prospective international
consultants are being considered. The communications cell will work closely with local public relations
and market research firms. It will also coordinate activities with the new media unit, which has been
created in the Ministry of Planning and Implementation.
The country-wide effort to involve and inform stakeholders of the reform process is likely to begin with a
detailed segmentation of the key stakeholders and will result in customized strategies to reach as much of
the population as possible especially those in the rural areas. The communications strategy will consist
of three interlinked parts: (i) public relations campaign to increase awareness of the benefits of reform,
(ii) two-way dialogue between government representatives and reform stakeholders to inform and refine
the reform process, and (iii) tripartite discussions between government, employers and unions.
- 12 -



Economic Regulation
With increasing private sector participation in the economy, Sri Lanka will need a corresponding sound
framework for economic regulation. This will ensure a level playing field, fair competition and
protection of consumer interests. The regulation of the power and water sectors will be entrusted to the
Public Utilities Commission (PUC), which the government will establish before the end of 2002. The
PUC may also in time undertake the economic regulation of parts of the transportation sector, as well as
petroleum products. A bill to establish the PUC is expected to be put to Parliament in October 2002. The
government's rapid steps to draft and finalize this bill show its commitment to the reform process.
Separate sectoral legislation describes in some detail how the PUC will regulate different sectors.
The government has opted for a multi-sector regulatory body for infrastructure rather than single sector
bodies as it would be expected to reduce the overall costs of regulation, promote consistency in
regulatory approaches across sectors, and reduce the risk of regulatory capture. The PUC will report
directly to the Minister for Policy Development and Implementation. Line ministries will maintain an
important role in developing sectoral policies; the PUC will implement relevant policy guidelines as
approved by the Cabinet following their development by line ministries.
STRATEGIC CHOICES
Centralized Vs Decentralized
A lack of technical capacity within government to design, manage and implement the reform process is
the primary weakness that this project aims to address. This capacity is available locally in the private
sector but government does not currently have adequate resources to attract such skilled personnel even
on a temporary basis. Therefore the proposed project will fill this gap by financing the staffing of key
reform units within the MERST as outlined above. This course of action bears the risk that creating
capacity within the center will not lead to increased capacity in the line ministries that are ultimately
responsible for implementing the strategy. The alternative to creating capacity at the center is to
establish reform cells in each of the relevant line ministries and public enterprises currently undergoing
reforms. These decentralized units would then be responsible for executing government's reform
strategies developed at the center.
Although these models should not be viewed as mutually exclusive, our discussions with government
have led us to favor starting with the central model as it has a number of advantages:
*      It follows government's own structure for reform and responds to government's requests for
technical assistance.
*      Fewer units are needed as a single unit can oversee reforms in the state-owned banks, insurance
sector, and pension sector, etc. without the need for individual units within each of these institutions.
*      There will be greater cross-fertilization both within the sector and across sectors within the same
ministry.
*      MESRT includes the Public Enterprise Reform Commission which is tasked with the
privatization program, a key ingredient of the reform process.
*      Such a model is more likely to avoid "policy capture" whereby the reform unit's operations are
subordinated to the line own ministry's interests which may not be identical.
*      At a later stage additional support can be channeled to the sectors on a need basis.
- 13-



Project Timeline
Government has urged the Bank to move as quickly as possible in order to maintain the momentum of the
reform agenda. The government also has a narrowing window of opportunity to implement its reform
agenda and needs to show some "quick wins" in key areas to maintain its credibility. Given the election
cycle, fiscal constraints and reform impetus the usual 4-5 year project will not fit in with government's
objectives or national needs. This calls for fast tracked support and a heavily front-loaded TA. The PPF
has allowed government to proceed in a timely and efficient manner and this needs to be followed up
with a quick progression to effectiveness. Although the official implementation period will run for 5
years, it is expected that with continued good progress the project funds could be disbursed within 3
years.
However, fast-tracking the TA support involves the risk that government is tempted to act quickly on
issues that have not been thoroughly thought through. Government decision-makers perceive that they
are under pressure to do something and show results during their honeymoon period or first year in
office. Acting on such pressure can led to hurried and botched privatizations or other similar mistakes
that may jeopardize the whole reform process. This is best dealt with by providing ongoing and timely
advice to government as appropriate rather than delaying the availability of funds provided through the
TA.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of four components:
(i) Strengthening Government Capacity
(ii) Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance
(iii) Strategic Communications
(iv) Challenge Fund
In order to effectively manage the TA funds, the capacity of key government reforms ministries has to be
strengthened considerably. This has started already with the PPF. TA sub-projects that are already
well-developed have been appraised and pre-allocated the required funding. These sub-projects are
presented in detail in Annex 2. The project will also address the need to build the reform constituency
and establish a two-way channel of communication between the reformers and the people. This will be
accomplished through the government's mass communications strategy. The remainder of the project
funds will form a pool of technical assistance which reform-minded sectoral ministries can apply for on a
first-come, first-served basis. This component is termed the Challenge Fund and will provide the project
with sufficient flexibility in meeting unforeseen needs that will arise during the project implementation
period.
Project Costs
Preparing a bottom-up estimate from individual line ministry requests gathered during the appraisal
points to a total cost of approximately $1 5m. The table below presents an approximate indication of the
relative project components.
- 14 -



iiiidicative.         Bank-.,    % of
Com-ionent                      Costs     %dof    financing   Bankl-
,, .M       T.otal  ..(L,$M) ftaicing
1. Strengthening Government Capacity                 1.50       8.0      1.00       6.7
2. Consulting Technical Assistance                   5.00      26.7      5.00      33.3
3. Strategic Communications                          1.50       8.0       1.00      6.7
4. Challenge Fund                                    10.75     57.3       8.00      53.3
Total Project Costs  18.75   100.0      15.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   18.75     100.0     15.00     100.0
All funding that is not allocated prior to effectiveness will compose the Challenge Fund component.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Government has indicated to the International Development Association (IDA) that TA provided under
the project be focused on the following five key areas:
(i)    Strengthening government capacity
(ii)  Infrastructure reforms
(iii)  Financial sector reforms
(iv)   Strategic cormmunications
(v)    Economic regulation
The salient issues in each of these areas are summarized in section B3 above.
3. Benefits and target population:
The immediate recipients of the project funds will be reform-minded government agenices that will be
better able to design and implement selected reform measures that will liberalize the economy. The
central focus of these reforms is to encourage private sector-led growth. In doing so government will
also reduce the need to subsidize loss-making public enterprise allowing government to reorient
expenditures to the social sectors.
Indirectly, the people of Sri Lanka will be the beneficiaries of the reform process as the reforms will
introduce greater private sector participation to all areas of the economy. This will ensure that public
sector finances that are currently spent on subsidizing inefficient parastatals can be channeled to more
sensible areas (e.g. increased spending on health, education and other social priorities). Liberalization of
the private sector through changes in the Companies Act and changes in labor practices as well as
deregulation of the rural sector through changes in land legislation will unleash the private sector's
potential in both these areas. This will result in improved service delivery in the infrastructure sectors.
This is sorely needed as years of public sector mismanagement have resulted in poor service delivery in
almost all the infrastructure sectors, most prominent are the recent institutionalized power cuts of several
hours per day and increases in the number of water cuts.
Although the proposed reforms are likely to result in moderate tariff increases in the short term to restore
the financial viability of loss making SOEs, in the long term the efficiency improvements stemming from
private sector managerial practices and the introduction of competitive market forces would result in
price declines in real terms and improved services. In the medium term, ending subsidies to
infrastructure services or better targeting of subsidies will ensure that government has the ability to
- 15 -



expand the reach of these services while at the same time devoting more resources to the poor.
In the rural environment, the land reforms that will liberalize land markets and improve access to finance
by allowing peasant households to use their landholdings as collateral for crop and agribusiness loans
will greatly assist poor households. These reforms are all likely to come at the cost of public servants
and the urban populations that have enjoyed access to subsidized goods and services. Many such
workers are heavily unionized and wield considerable political power and therefore integrating them into
government's reform process and engendering their buy-in to the reform process will present an
enormous challenge for government. However, even this group of potential opponents of reform stand to
gain from the reform process in the medium to long term as scarce economic resources are allowed to
follow market price signals leading to greater efficiency and productivity.
The financial sector reforms will result in the efficiency of the financial sector and reduced government
intervention in the financial sector. It will reduce the high intermediation costs and provide increased
competition. The reforms will support the paradigm shift of the government being the regulator from
being the provider of credit and strengthen the legal framework and supervision capacity to ensure
financial system stability. In addition the proposed pension reforms will also bring better returns to the
beneficiaries while increasing domestic resource mobilization capacity in the financial sector freeing up
contractual funds from the shackles of the govermnent. The pension reforms will ensure better
retirement savings for the people of the country and provide choice for employees with regard to the
management of their retirement benefits. It will also support mobility of labor.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The primary implementation agency would be the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and
Technology. The key counterpart within the ministry will be the Prime Minister's Senior Adviser.
Government has created a project cell within the ministry to oversee the project's coordination.
At the moment, these staff include a project coordinator, a project accountant and a project procurement
specialist. The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been used to fund these core technical consultants
on a contract basis. Once the credit becomes effective, they will become the key counterparts for project
implementation.
Responding to the two expressed needs to maintain flexibility in the proposed credit and simultaneously
ensure the quality of the reform program, the mission team agreed that the TA should be focused on
implementation (rather than studies and planning exercises) of reforms when the opportunity arises. In
order to protect the national interest, the mission team agreed with govemment officials on the following
approach. Sectoral reforms under the proposed TA must be submitted for clearance to the Cabinet
Committee on Economic Policy. This should take the form of a concept paper that spells out the reform
implementation strategy, including the principles to be followed (e.g. transparency of bidding process,
competitive industry structure, adequate regulatory framework, methodology for privatization, etc.). The
concept paper will be submitted to the Bank for comments and amendments prior to Cabinet submission.
Within the parameters of the approved concept paper, the government will be given flexibility to proceed
expeditiously. ToRs derived from the approved strategy paper need only be signed by the relevant line
ministry secretary or Secretary Treasury or Secretary Policy Development and Implementation or
Secretary MERST. ToRs would not have to be referred to the Cabinet Committee once the overall
strategy had been approved. Bank staff members would support government officials by reviewing and
strengthening the ToRs and ensuring that the suggested procurement procedures met Bank's procurement
guidelines. These arrangements are summarized in the diagram below.
- 16 -



Diagram: Proposed Management Structure
Line         State-owned       Reform
Ministries      enterprises     Ministries
Project Coordination Unit
Draft Sector Reform
Concept Paper
World                *                       Eligibility
Bank                                         Criteria
Comments
Economic
Policy
Cabinet Sub-
Committee
Detailed TORs,
RFPs etc.
World Bank                                    Procurement
No objections               v                  Guidelines
Consultants hired
and work completed
The project coordinator will be responsible for the financial management of the project, and has hired a
full-time financial manager reporting to monitor the financial position and general progress of the
project. The financial manager will be responsible for managing the flow of resources to the project
components, preparing detailed statements of expenditure based on information received and approved
consulting expenditures incurred against which the Bank would release funds. This individual would also
be responsible for producing timely progress reports. Detailed audits to be carried out during project
implementation are presented in Annex 6. Both the financial manager and government's procurement
advisor have been provided with upfront procurement training during the appraisal mission so that they
are able to follow Bank procurement guidelines throughout the project duration.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The government is willing and has the political mandate to undertake sweeping economic reforms,
however, it lacks the required technical capacity. Simply funding international consultants on a
short-term basis will not prove the most effective method of plugging this gap as the capacity to manage
- 17-



the consultants does not yet exist. Therefore, the project will start by creating the required management
capacity within the Ministries tasked with economic reform initially hiring such expertise from the
private sector on a short-term contract basis. This small, task-oriented and temporary reform cadre will
then design and implement the detailed reform process over a period of 2-3 years. Note that the should
the reforms run into implementation difficulties a longer project period may be required to realise
government's reform objectives. There government has agreed to a 5 year implementation schedule with
the intention of fully disbursing project funds within the first 3 years.
The rationale for this approach is based on the following observations:
*      Government is unable to attract these individuals on civil service salaries. Even if GOSL was
able to hire them, it is clear that government wants to avoid enlarging the already bloated civil service
cadres. Therefore, the ability to hire such individuals on sunset clauses through I year renewable
contracts is the most sensible way forward.
*      It is far cheaper and more effective to recruit nationals available within government or the private
sector rather than employing expensive expatriate consultants when the expertise exists in-country.
*      This capacity once strengthened would also be sustainable and even once the reform units are
disbanded, the capacity and experience of the individuals involved would remain in-country.
*      This approach also has the benefit that it will lead to home-grown solutions to reform challenges
and that government has complete ownership of the reform process.
*      Finally, the Bank would proceed according to government's own reform schedule. If
government is able to quickly staff the units and prepare an implementable business plan for the reform
process, the Bank would be able to follow with timely disbursements.
The appraisal mission has identified sub-projects that are ready for immediate implementation. The
remaining bulk of the proposed credit has been allocated to a "Challenge Fund", effectively a pool of
unallocated technical assistance. This will provide government with flexibility to fund reforms that are
developed during project implementation and proceed with reforms that fall within the agreed scope of
the proposed credit on an opportunistic basis. In order to ensure the quality and relevance of TA funded
through the Challenge Fund, government has agreed that all future reform sub-projects would be
approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy.
The possibility of using single-sector credits was considered and rejected for the following two reasons.
First, given the broad nature of the reform challenges facing the public sector, a single sector credit
would be too narrow and constrictive and would not have the required critical mass to be funded by an
individual credit. Secondly, the pace of reform in a particular sector may quicken or slow depending on a
myriad of criteria many of which may not be foreseen during project preparation (or even
implementation) and therefore including a wide range of reforns appeared to be the most appropriate
choice.
Another alternative considered for this project included using institutional development funds and/or
trust funds. However, these could be too small to address some of the larger needs outlined by GOSL
and managing numerous small trust funds would add extra administrative burden to the Bank.
Alternative instruments were also considered, including a LIL which would have matched government's
desire for a fast-track process, but unfortunately would have been too small to cover government's TA
needs. An APL was rejected because the pace and extent of government reforms is not yet sufficient to
reasonably establish the need for a longer term multi-project program. A structural adjustment credit
was not considered as the TA reform is closely tied to ongoing negotiations to provide GOSL with an
- 18 -



IDA credit tied to the Poverty Reduction Strategy.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
.___________________________  _________________(Bank-flnanced projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Ongoing Projects
S            S
Economic Reform in South Asia    (India) - Technical Assistance   S            S
Region                           for Economic Reform
Financial Sector Reforms         Central Bank of Sri Lanka        S            S
Strengthening
Private Participation in Infrastructure  PPIAF                    S            S
Private Participation in Infrastructure  Private Sector Infrastructure  S      U
Development Project (PSIDP)
Energy Sector Reform and TA      Renewable Energy for Rural       S            S
and Economic Development
Planned Project
Economic Reforms                  Sri Lanka - Poverty Reduction
Support Credit
Financial Sector Reforms TA       Financial Sector Appraisal
Project - TA follow-up
Other development agencies
Economic Reforms                 IMF Standby Arrangement
Economic Reforms                 ADB - Private Sector
Development Project
Planned Projects
Economic Reforms                 IMF - PRGF
IP/DO Ratings HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank's recent experience with channeling technical assistance to increase private participation in
infrastructure through the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Corporation (PSIDC) as well as TA
under PPIAF and TA to the Central Bank all provide valuable lessons for the proposed operation.
Elsewhere in the region, the recent Bank TA operation in India provides several lessons for the proposed
operation.
Reform Timing and Management Capacity: One important lesson is that in rushing to fulfill
Intemational Financial Institution (IFI) conditions, the government can be prone to over-commit itself.
Govermment often agrees to move on too many areas without realizing the technical and managerial
capacity as well as the political capital that is required to deliver on these requests. One mitigating factor
is the creation of a reform unit within the ministry or a steering committee that is empowered to take hard
decisions to move the reform process forward. This arrangement is in place for the water and power
- 19-



sectors. The proposed TA will follow this model with the creation of reform units within MERST,
including the project coordination unit and the use of the Economic Policy Cabinet Sub-Committee.
Moreover, the TA will be flexible enough with a large amount of unallocated funding so that it can be
directed to sectors that are able to progress with urgently needed reforms. Government is not being asked
to commit to deliver unrealistic reform targets in each and every sector.
Management Turnover: As an example, in a period of less than 16 months the Secretary responsible
for urban water was changed more than 4 times. Each new incumbent had to take time to familiarize
himself with the key issues in the sector and chart a suitable course of action. However, the government
has moved quickly in appointing reform-minded candidates in key positions throughout the
administration and has demonstrated its political commitment to both implement the reform agenda and
support reform-oriented civil servants and politicians.
Government Commitment: The government has an ambitious reform agenda for increasing private
sector participation across sectors. Past experience reveals that sustained political commitment to tackle
the key reform issues, especially tariff and labor, is difficult to achieve and has hindered private sector
participation in Sri Lanka. Reforms in the financial, port, postal, and power sectors, and more recently
the water sector, have all moved slowly despite substantial resources being spent to support the process
over the few years. The govermment is keen to implement its reform program within their defined
window of opportunity, i.e., until April 2004 when new elections will be held, and have indicated their
desire to drive the implementation of the reform agenda from the highest political levels of the
government. This is indicated by the Prime Minister himself taking on the Minister's position at the
Ministry of Policy Development.
Using Private Sector Participation as a Panacea: In many instances reform agendas have failed as the
underlying issues leading to the need for reform were not well-though out. Governments have often
thought that introducing some form of private sector participation would be the answer to a myriad of
problems in a particular sector. However, the private sector responds to incentives just as the public
sector does and unless these incentives are well aligned with govermment's reform objectives the resulting
program can end in failure. Two good examples of this can be seen in Sri Lanka. The previous
government wished to introduce private sector participation in the water sector without first raising the
tariffs to levels that could support the private sector assuming revenue risk. This ambiguity about some
of the assumptions concerning tariff levels resulted in confusion amongst the consultants recruited to
advise the process and contradictory advice. Secondly, the sale of Shell Lanka resulted in the transfer of
a public sector monopoly to the private sector and has created a situation of restricted access and
supernormal profits both of which set a poor precedent for support to future privatizations. These issues
need to be carefully thought through prior to privatization.
Failed Recapitalization of State Banks: State Banks have been repeatedly recapitalized in the past.
Without any change in ownership or incentive structure, their performance has not improved and the
recapitalization has proved a drain on government's financial resources. Currently, government seems
keen to restructure Peoples Bank and may in the future consider the privatization of the Bank of Ceylon.
The indications are positive towards the government reducing its role in commercial banking and
increasing its focus on the regulatory and legal aspects. However, there is little clarity in current
thinking on the form of the Asset Management Company that is suggested as a vehicle for reducing
non-performning loans prior to the privatization of People's Bank. IDA will closely monitor the process to
ensure that it will not be another form of recapitalization of the state banks.
Ineffective Project Monitoring: The state roads TA in India did not have adequate resources devoted
- 20 -



to overall project monitoring. For a project of this nature, it is essential to ensure that the required
information for financial management is collected and that a check is kept on the extent to which funds
are committed and disbursed. To overcome this potential problem this project will start with the steering
committee appointing a full-time financial manager as suggested in various sections above.
Clear Eligibility Criteria: The economic reform TA in India shows that clear identification of up-front
eligibility criteria for access to TA funds, and in particular clear outputs from the TA, provides incentives
for efficient usage of the TA. This proposed operation highlights the need for strong borrower
commitment and action plans to follow through on reforms identified as priorities through the Challenge
Fund.
Delays in Procurement: Delays often result from a lack of understanding of the different evaluation
methods and the need to follow bureaucratic administrative procedures. In order to maintain the reform
momentum, this project started quickly with the approval of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). More
support will be provided both from the procurement hub and the local office on procurement issues with
the smaller sub-projects to be handled by the project management unit within MERST. Larger projects
will require a procurement agent funded under the project. A financial manager has already been
selected, appointed and trained in procurement issues so-that he can act as a focal point for all
procurement matters.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe was elected in December 2001 on a platform
of peace and economic reform. In January 2002, government created a Ministry of Economic Reformns,
Science and Technology (MERST) in order to drive the reform agenda that had stalled under the
previous administration. In February 2002, the Economic Reforms Minister was elevated to the status of
Cabinet rank as MERST was strengthened and given the political mandate to implement numerous key
reforms.
The reform program has been endorsed by the Prime Minister who has also taken on the role of Minister
of Policy Development. The Minister of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology, has also been
appointed as the Deputy Minister of Policy Development, a key illustration of the political commitment
behind the development and implementation of the reform program. The economic team at the Ministry
of Finance including the Minister and Secretary are fully supportive of the project. Government has also
appointed dedicated reformers in key positions throughout government and the state-owned enterprises to
lead the sectoral reforms. The PPF advance has allowed government to fill advisory positions with
reformers from the private sector.
Funds from the PPF have been used extremely effectively to staff the economic regulation cell, draft and
gazette the Public Utilities Commission Act and prepare for the establishment of the commission itself.
The economic regulation cell has also moved quickly to draft the appropriate industry acts and associated
sector legislation and regulations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Structural reforms in the private and financial sectors are a key area of Bank comparative advantage.
Moreover, economic reform along with the achievement of peace form the core of the Bank's strategy
towards Sri Lanka as well as government's own strategy. By supporting government's key reform
priorities, we would achieve a number of CAS and national development objectives including: reducing
the burden on the treasury, increasing the dynamism of the economy through increased investment and
-21 -



private sector participation, boosting medium term employment creation and allowing resources to be
directed away from loss making state-owned enterprises to finance human development expenditures.
The key elements of the reforms, once implemented would provide strong and sound foundation for
medium term economic growth and justifies full IDA support. IDA will then play a critical role in the
medium term in supporting the agenda of reforms under the future adjustment operations that are
currently under preparation. The task team feels that government's program is sufficiently well defined
and formulated with strong commitment and ownership and justifies IDA support.
Although other IFIs are active in Sri Lanka, none are taking a lead in tackling this critical area. The IMF
is narrowly focused on macroeconomic stability and fiscal prudence touching on reform issues only when
they jeopardize fiscal targets. The ADB is involved in infrastructure but has limited funds for TA
support. JBIC is funding large physical investments in infrastructure but has no policy dialogue with
government.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Where TA funds are used to support sub-projects that have a clearly measurable economic rate of return
or cost effectiveness, the steering committee supported by the Bank will complete an economic analysis
and/or quantify the economic benefits of the sub-project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
N/A
Fiscal Impact:
TA funding will be used to address issues relating to the under-pricing of government-provided services
and commodities and will therefore contribute to restoring the fiscal balance. Where the TA is involved
in a substantive reform area, an attempt will be made to undertake an estimate of the fiscal impact of the
reform measures. Clearly the reforms of the large infrastructure parastatals are likely to have a
significant positive fiscal impact, although the size and sustainability of the impact will depend on the
particular content and timing of the reforms actually undertaken.
As there are no recurrent costs associated with the provision of TA, the project is likely to improve the
government's fiscal position considerably. Moreover, the successful early completion of key reform
measures supported by the TA is likely to trigger additional funding from the IMF's proposed PRGF and
the proposed IDA adjustment support.
3. Technical:
Bank staff will have to appraise sub-projects over the threshold without having been involved extensively
in the design and preparation of the sub-projects. However, ongoing dialogue with government and early
review of the respective TORs and short listed candidates will ensure technical quality and relevance.
4. Institutional:
Institutional Arrangements are described in section C4 above.
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 22 -



MERST will perform overall project management and monitoring functions, as outlined in C4 above.
Particular attention will have to be paid to ensuring adequate financial monitoring of the operation as
well as coordination of various sub-projects during implementation. The MERST will also be the major
executing agency for the sub-projects under this TA to ensure centralized control and coordination of the
various project aspects. Financial management aspects will be handled through the appointment of a full
time project financial manager based in the MERST secretariat. The financial manager will be
responsible for drafting the quarterly reports.
4.2 Project management:
Project management is a key issue for the success of this project. The arrangements proposed in C4
respond to the perceived risks at present, but these will continue to be assessed in the light of project
implementation. To some extent the PPF funds earmarked to staff the MERST core functions is key to
getting the project management onto the right track from the beginning of the project. Therefore, once
the PPF funds have been used to recruit the key staff, an assessment can be made of the suitability of
these arrangements for the project's successful implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
GOSL has prepared guidelines on "Government Tender Procedure" in 1996, (revised in August 1997)
under Chapter 13 of the Financial regulations. For the first time, the guidelines and rules provide the
framework for all public procurement in the country including Provincial Councils(PC), and Local
Authorities, also includes a separate chapter (XIII) for projects assisted by foreign funding agencies (this
chapter has been revised in December 2000 and issued as separate booklet) and hence ensuring
transparency in Procurement. GOSL have agreed for the Bank to conduct a Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR). The Review has been initiated. GOSL have in position a Procurement
Support Bureau (PSB) to coordinate its recommendations.
Procurement will be a key issue going forward, as government has a fast track reform process in mind.
This implies that we will have to be as responsive and agile as possible if we are to be relevant. In
particular, government has specifically requested hiring consultants that have produced studies in the past
to help with implementation. Government would like to sole source some of this technical input to
ensure that lead times are minimized and consulting expenditure represents value for money.
Government has hired a full-time financial and procurement manager who will oversee the procurement
and financial management aspects of the project. He will be supported by Bank procurement specialists
in Colombo, Delhi and Washington as appropriate. In response to government's concerns we will adopt
the following guidelines;
(i) The project will follow mainly paragraphs 3.7 and 3.9 of the Bank's guidelines on hiring consultants.
The Bank has stressed to government that hiring a firm of consultants is not focused on getting the best
firm for the job, but on getting a well-qualified firm that represents the best value to carry out the work.
(ii) The project will follow section 5 of the Guidelines on hiring consultants for individual consultants.
This will include asking government to document its process of selecting individual consultants to ensure
that they are hired on meritocratic criteria.
(iii) The PPF includes the same procedures as for the project. The thresholds for prior review by Bank
staff for consulting contracts will be set as follows; (a) $50,000 for individual consultants, (b) $100,000
for consulting firms, and (c) $250,000 for goods and equipment.
(iv) Although not strictly a procurement issue, retroactive financing can be agreed upon with
- 23 -



government up to a maximum of 10% of the loan amount for contracts let within a year of project
effectiveness. All such contracts would have to carefully follow the Bank's procurement guidelines and
the project procurement specialist and in-field staff will assist counterparts in fulfilling these conditions.
(v) The standard disbursement ratios that have came into effect on October 1 st 2002 will apply to the
project. This means that the Bank will only finance the proportion of the consultants fees that are net of
taxes while MERST and the Ministry of Finance will have to fund the residual amount equivalent to the
tax burden associated with the consulting input.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The comments that follow on the financial management system should be read in conjunction with
section C4, F2 and annex 6.
The project has a satisfactory financial management system.
The project will use transaction based disbursement from its inception. However, Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs), according to formats to be agreed at negotiations, will be produced on a quarterly basis
from the inception of the project. A special account will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and
operated according to terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA.
The key implementing agency for the project is the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and
Technology (MERST). Though this is a new ministry, it will operate within the regular internal control
framework of the government. Project financial management and disbursement arrangements are
streamlined to use the existing system of the government. Project accounting will be on the basis of cash.
The annual external audit of project accounts will be carried by the Auditor General, which is the
supreme audit institution of Sri Lanka.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Since this is a Technical Assistance (TA) project focusing on strengthening Government's capacity to
implement its economic reform agenda, it is unlikely that project financed activities will result in new
environmental problems. The project comprises four components - (i) Strengthening Government
capacity (especially in the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology-MERST); (ii) Pre
allocated consulting TA; (iii)Mass communication strategy; and (iv) Challenge Fund. Of which, the
potential for adverse environmental issues may arise only under components (ii) and (iv). However, the
implementation of the Government's economic reforms through components (ii) and (iv) will in turn
expand the role of the private sector in the economy which may result in transfer of ownership of
selected assets from the public to the private sector. The Government proposes to introduce private
sector participation through a number of distinct methods including sale of shares, management
contracts, concessions etc. In all cases where a significant impact on the environment is foreseen an
environmental audit will be undertaken. This is essential in order to (i) identify the environmental
problems and liabilities that might be associated with the transfer of assets and (ii) generate
environmental compliance with the national laws. Addressing such issues through environmental audits
will also become part of the sale and negotiation stages of the PPP processes itself. In all cases
environmental compliance will be with respect to Sri Lanka's National Environmental Act (NEA) and its
associated regulations. But the audits will go beyond this legal benchmark to compare against
international best practice, taking into account guidelines contained in the World Bank's Pollution
- 24 -



Prevention Handbook. This will give the potential purchaser an idea of future compliance requirements,
as well. Since it is not possible to identify state owned enterprises targeted for reforms with absolute
certainty at this stage, the PAD identifies sectors and enterprises that are most likely candidates for
reforms. Therefore, an Environmental Screening Framework has been prepared that will serve as
template to undertake environmental audits, once the enterprises for reform are identified.
There are two basic types of environmental audits that will be used under this project: Phase I: A desk
study designed to generate a view of the level of compliance of a facility with the environmental
regulations of relevance. These include aspects relating to aerial and wastewater emissions as well as
solid waste disposal. Phase II: A site investigation that may include a number of specific studies on the
quality of emissions or of environmental media e.g. soil sampling etc. An environmental audit is best
completed before the point of sale and will identify any liabilities attached to the entity to be sold. Once
the audit has been undertaken, the vendor and purchaser may address these as an integral part of the
negotiations concerning the sale. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared based on
the findings of the environmental audit and its compliance will be part of the issuance conditions of the
Environmental Protection License (EPL) which is a pre-requisite for operations of the enterprise under
the NEA.
Of the enterprises identified for reforms at this stage, it is unlikely that enterprises such as the Sri Lanka
Insurance Company, National Lotteries Board or capacity building activities at the Insurance Board of
Sri Lanka and at the Superannuation Regulatory Agency will have any environmental liabilities.
However, reforms in infrastructure sectors/agencies such as the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC),
Shell Gas Lanka, Sri Lankan Airlines, Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), the urban water supply and
sanitation sector and the transportation sector will most likely result in environmental liabilities and will
be subject to environmental audits based on the Environmental Screening Framework.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Phase I and Phase II Environmental Audits will identify and quantify commonly encountered forms of
environmental liabilities. The results of the environmental audits will be used in developing EMPs for
each selected enterprise/sector agency so that the enterprise or sector agency is able to comply with
national environmental laws and standards gazetted under the NEA and its associated regulations.
Compliance with national environmental laws and standards will form the basis for issuance of the EPL
by the CEA.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Framework received on October 15th
2002.
A first draft of the Environmental Screening Framework was submitted to the Bank in September 2002.
A final draft which incorporates Bank and public comments was submitted on October 15, 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Since only an Environmental Screening Framework has been prepared at this stage, public consultation
commenced with the first draft of the Framework. Public comments were solicited through the
Government's website as well as by providing the Framework to all interested parties at the relevant line
ministry and the CEA. The public was given a 30 day period to submit written comments which will be
considered in the preparation of the final draft of the Framework. In keeping with the Govermment of Sri
Lanka's and the World Bank's public disclosure guidelines, the environmental audits will be discussed
with the affected public.
- 25 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Compliance monitoring of the EMP will be the responsibility of the CEA as mandated under the
NEA. CEA's enforcement capacity is being strengthened under the on-going IDA financed
Environment Action 1 Project as well under USAID and Netherlands bi-lateral funding.
Therefore, the CEA would have the requisite institutional capacity to evaluate the environmental audits
and identify issues that need to be included in the EMP. The implementation of the EMP will be a
condition of issuance of the EPL, which is renewable every three years. CEA is responsible for ensuring
compliance of EPL conditions prior to extension of the EPL.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no major social issues arising directly out of this TA. However, one social issue that is likely
to arise from the reform process in general is clearly that of employment. Introducing private sector
participation into the economy is likely to be accompanied by changing pattems of labor demand and
staffing within firms that are transferred from the public to the private sectors. Government has already
begun a voluntary down-sizing process in the Central Bank and is planning to amend the Termination of
Employment of Workers Act to limit the Commissioner of Labor's discretion. These are signs that
government is preparing the path for more voluntary retrenchment schemes. If such operations are
planned in the future, their potential impact on the labor market and the economy in general should be
studied as part of the operation. However, government can use other funds to fund and study the
feasibility of such options. The International Labor Organization (ILO) is currently in dialogue with
government on a social safety net to reduce the social burdens associated with adjustment. The project
team is in constant dialogue with the ILO on this initiative which could receive Bank support if
appropriate.
Tariff increases for basic commodities such as petrol, electricity, water and transport are foreseeen, and
have started to take place, as part of the reforms supported by this project. In every case the potential
adverse impact on the poor has been/will be studied and mitigating measures will be taken to ensure that
the poor are not adversely affected by the reform process. For instance, initial studies on the petroleum
sector revealed that petrol and transport formed a very small part of the budget of poor households and
providing these services below cost was effectively subsidizing middle income groups. Potential hikes in
tariffs will be accompanied by concession fares as appropriate.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As part of the project preparation, a bank strategic communications team met with all key reform
stakeholders including: public sector unions, state-owned enterprise management and unions, local
religious leaders, workers that had been laid off during a privatization process, consumer groups, the
chamber of commerce and representatives of the media. Govermnent will build on the findings of the
communications audit to develop a mass communications strategy that will determine how all
stakeholders are drawn into and informed of the economic reform process. The strategy will also build
on the perceptions of privatization survey that has already been undertaken by the Bank's Development
Communications Unit.
Once capacity is developed, the government's information unit will be responsible for ongoing efforts to
involve civil society, unions and other stakeholders in the reform process.
In complementary activities, the ILO is working with government to develop tri-partite channels of
- 26 -



communication between government, unions and employers. This forum will serve the purpose of
allowing stakeholders to participate in all labor related issues.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During the project preparation the project team have had extensive discussion with other donor
organizations, most notably the ADB, JBIC and ILO. There have also been discussions with the relevant
trades unions and religious and community leaders in areas that have been affected by previous reforrns
in order to understand the issues from the perspective of those most directly affected. This has helped
the team gauge domestic support and possible opposition to the reforms as well as re-design key project
parameters to take their concerns into account. The results of the consultation process are found in the
Strategic Communications Audit Report undertaken during project preparation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
There are no direct social development objectives for this project. However, the macro level impact on
poverty and public expenditure should become apparent within the project implementation period.
Lower level outcomes such as improved transportation services and improved basic services could be
measured but these are secondary outcomes of the TA. This project will only provide finance for
consultants to carry out the reforms not support the reforms themselves which will be done by other
means.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  (9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (U Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 ( Yes S No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         ( Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       C) Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
There are no relevant impacts foreseen in terms of the Bank's current safeguard policies. Poor
communities are expected to gain from the economic reforms that are supported by this project.
However, during the review of proposed sub-projects any possible conflicts with safeguard policies will
be assessed.
- 27 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
* Strengthening government's reform management capacity. Government is not aiming for long term
sustainability of its reform management teams. In fact it wants to ensure the opposite that whatever
additional capacity is hired into government will disappear along with the need for such capacity in
2-3 years time. Most of the staff of the reform ministries will be hired on a contract basis.
Government sees MERST itself has being established on basis of sunset clauses to ensure that what
is created is a task-oriented capacity rather than adding to the already bloated bureaucracy. Putting
the empahsis on creating local reform management capacity and hiring Sri Lankan nationals (either
those available locally or internationally) will ensure that a sustainable capacity is created in the
country whether that capacity remains in government or moves to the private sector following the
successful implementation of the reform program.
*   Economic Reform Program: While any reform program can in theory be reversed, it will be difficult
to reverse sales of assets to the private sector as this will create a large and powerful mandate for and
support to the reform process that will gain in strength as the benefits of reform are witnessed by the
public. In this context the reform program favored by the Bank emphasizes the need for outright sale
of assets to the private sector wherever possible over the introduction of management contracts that
can then be canceled or can leave managers within the remit of government influence. All the
privatizations expected will require financial stability and will be designed with a view to long term
sustainability.
*   Mass communications strategy: The mass communications startegy includes the strengthening of
capacity of the government's information department based in the Ministry of Telecommunications.
This will ensure that once the immediate communications program is designed and implemented that
government's own department will be able to take on this important task in the future. (See Annex 2)
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Timing: Government has a narrowing         N         Project preparation team will be flexible in
window of opportunity to implement                   appraisal timing. Simple procurement
these reforms. It needs to show some                 procedures will be adopted whenever possible.
"quick wins" in key areas to maintain its            Preparation team will assist government in
credibility. This calls for fast tracked TA          identifying and developing suitable project
support and a project cycle that is heavily          sub-components.
front-loaded. This situation also
indicates the importance of the mass
communications campaign to the
government's reform objectives. This
situation can best be addressed through
the timely implementation of the PPF and
expeditious project preparation.
Although with regard to the latter, the
Bank will be prepared to move as fast as
government requires.
Lack of management capacity. The           M         Review TA needs at center and line ministries
Economic Reform TA is being planned                  throughout project duration, maintain
precisely because government does not                flexibility in planning to be able to address
- 28 -



have the capacity to manage and                     issues that arise during implementation.
implement the envisaged reforms alone.
However, if lack of government capacity
implies that government cannot manage
the reforms alone it is fair to question
whether government has the capacity to
manage the TA itself. Bringing in
consultants alone will not be useful
unless they are extremely well managed.
This also indicates the need either to
support economic reform units in key
areas across government or ensure that
there is a close (possible formal) link
between the central reform units and the
line ministries responsible for the
reforms prior to the launching of the TA.
Structural Changes: There is a risk that  M         Government committed to reform will reach
the newly created MERST and Ministry                out to the line ministries during the project
of Policy Development and                           implementation. The mass communications
Implementation develop into weak                    strategy will also serve to highlight the benefits
institutions without the political                  of reform to the political stakeholders, the
commitment of the center or buy-in from             unions and the public.
the line ministries. However, the fact
that this project is going to strengthen the
technical capacity of these ministries will
give them a higher profile and the ability
to deliver on government's announced
agenda which should in turn bolster their
political capital. Another related risk
arises from the fact that many of the
reforms depend on a key player either
centrally or within the relevant ministry.
If these individuals are reshuffled, much
of the experience disappears with them
and reforms are subsequently halted.
Therefore the Bank must ensure that it is
institutionalizing the reform process
through this project rather than tying the
project to individuals who may leave the
current administration.
Renewed violence: Government has          M         Front-load the TA project, hire all individual
made great progress on the peace front.             consultants on sunset clauses, program
However, there are still many elements in           consulting inputs on a modular basis where
Sri Lankan society that could favor a               possible to ensure ease of exit in such
return to conflict as a means to political          circumstances.
power. The President herself has made
several attempts to stall the peace process
and stymie the government's overall
- 29 -



agenda.
There are minor social risks associated   N        The Bank team is working closely with ILO to
with labor redundancies and tariff                 establish a social safety net in additional to
increases. However, workers are well               mandatory severance packages. Tariff
protected in Sri Lanka and government              increases will be regulated by the PUC that this
has pledged to make all redundancies               credit will also support. All tariff increases
voluntary and therefore accompanied by             will also maintain current lifeline subsidies.
equitable severance packages.
From Components to Outputs
Duplication: There are a number of other  S        Throughout project implementation the
TA activities funded by the Bank (e.g.,             government's Cabinet Committee on Economic
Central Bank Strengthening, FSAP                   Reforms will meet regularly to prioritize the
follow-up, etc.) and projects that are             process and coordinate with the donor
funded by ADB and branches of the UN               community. The Bank team will ensure that
system that cover similar areas. In order          quarterly progress reports are circulated widely
to ensure that the IDA credit is well              among relevant stakeholders and will continue
spent, all stakeholders must ensure that           to inform and involve key donor agencies in the
duplication is kept to a minimum. In               preparation and supervision process.
assessing duplication, the identification
mission held meetings with the IMF,
ADB, ILO and JBIC. Informal
communications channels have been
established between these bodies
concerning the proposed economic
reform TA. The appraisal mission will
explicitly review the position of these
and other relevant stakeholders to avoid
duplication. Government has also moved
to establish a Cabinet sub-committee on
Economic Reforms chaired by the Prime
Minister that meets on a weekly basis and
includes the relevant ministers which
should also serve to avoid duplication on
the GOSL side.
Pressure for action. The government has   S         Bank team must ensure that government
come into power with a mandate for                  manages expectations and introduces timing
reform. They want to be seen to be                  aspects to the mass communications strategy to
dynamic and achieve results in a short              ensure that the message is consistent. The
space of time. This has led to the                  timing of key sales and reforms must be driven
announcing of unrealistic deadlines and             primarily by technocractic triggers and the
timetables which can produce pressure to            potential down-side (e.g., of botched
do what can be done quickly rather than             privatizations) will be made clear to all
adopt the most appropriate course of                stakeholders. Ultimately the Bank can refuse
action.                                            to approve borrowing for areas that carry
significant reputation risks due to
poorly-thought out reform agendas.
- 30 -



Overall Risk Rating                 I      M         I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Exit Strategy: As there are many potential risks involved in this project, it is important to have a clearly
defined exit strategy in case the project encounters insurmountable problems (or risks highlighted above
that actually materialize) that would render it a failure.
The signing of timebound contracts for key consultants (i.e. 1 year contracts) allows the project to be
wound down within a matter of months with the remaining contract amounts covering the outstanding
period being drawn down in the process. It is suggested that the project starts with the funding of smaller
pilot sub-projects and consultancy contracts to assess the institutional context and whether progress will
be made during the longer project duration. This will again allow for a suitable exit point at the mid-term
review stage should a failure of progress necessitate such a decision.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social Unrest: Similar reform initiatives in the past have been met with massive union opposition.
Sometimes this opposition has been violent and/or illegal but has nevertheless managed to persuade
govermnent to back down from its reform agenda. The main issues that are likely to be controversial in
this operation include the attempts to privatize previously publicly operated utilities or SOEs.
Controversy can be tempered by effectively using the mass communications component to undertake
meetings with groups opposing the reforms, such as the unions, while building popular support by
explaining to the public at large what the objectives of the reforms are. This has been started with some
success with the reform of People's Bank. Recent articles in the newspapers concerning the potential bus
sector reforms indicate that there is more work to be done in this key area.
The second key controversial area is that of labor reform. Protected workers are likely to react adversely
if they perceive their priveleges being eroded away through changes in the legislation. This can be
overcome by grandfathering the rights of existing workers while simulaneously appealing for support
from the 6 million of 7 million workers that are not covered by the existing Termination of Workers Act
(TEWA).
Governance and the role of the state: Sri Lanka has achieved many of its impressive social gains
through an explicitly paternalistic and socialist state. The move towards the market will create winners
and losers and is likely to create short-term anxieties. A constant barrage of criticism of privatization and
free market economics in the press, along with subsidized services and commodities has resulted in the
public's unwavering support for socialist policies. In implementing the reforms, government will have to
highlight the obvious failures of this approach - e.g. extensive power cuts and lack of services in the rural
areas and the unsustainability of the recent programs with the budget deficit running at close to 10% of
GDP-.
Tariff increases: Tariff increases are never popular with those who will be forced to pay for them.
Where tariff increases are necessary to establish services on a sustainable basis, government can examine
methods that can provide concessionary access to poor households and needy social groups. Government
can also endeavor to explain the need for price increases to the whole country and ensure that such price
increases are accompanied by improved service and improved efficiency of resources.
- 31 -



G. IiMain CredConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) Agreement on the formats for the financial management reports to be reached during negotiations.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i) Satisfactory implementation of the institutional and financial arrangements
H. Readiness for Dmplementafton
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
0. Compliance with Bank Poli0cies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Ism    adwan                     Josep   el Mar Pemia               et C. H    ld
Team Leader                      Sector MWanager/Director          Co ntry PMlanager/Director
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Key Performance        Data C   l   Strategy 
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                 ._ .          r      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthening the          Increased private sector   Government reports; including Govenmment maintains a
regulatory/policy framework  participation in the economy  national accounts, central bank commitment to liberalize the
for pnvate investment,                                and public expenditure     economy.
especially in infrastructure                          reviews.
Increased domestic and     National Poverty Assessments. Private sector willing to
intemational investment.                             increase investments.
Enhanced economic and social Dialogue with GOSL, donors  Macroeconomic stability and
activity                   and civil society.         continued progress with the
peace process.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Strengthen the govenmment's  Ministiy of Economic     Quarterly progress reports  Government maintains
capacity to implement its  Reforms well staffed and                              comnutment to reform in face
economic reform agenda.    capable of managing the                               of political opposition.
reform process
Implementation of key reform  Project supervision reports  Suitable candidates are hired
objectives already included in                       to staff the Ministry of
govenmment's private sector                           Economic Reforms.
structural adjustment credit
matrix.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Strengthening govemment's Hiring approximately 10 key                         Lack of capacity is the key
reform management capacity  individuals within the reform                        bottleneck and hiring in
ministries and key line                               additional capacity will get the
ministries.                                           reform agenda moving.
2a. Privatization of People's  Documentation is prepared                         Government willing to sell
Bank                       and sale takes place                                  People's Bank at market price
and does not rush the
transaction.
2b. Technical Assistance for  Creation of a suitable Asset                       NPLs transfered to AMC and
the Asset Management       Management Company based                              government grants full powers
Company                    on private sector principles                          to the AMC.
2c. Capacity building of   Skills upgrade and training  Supervision reports      ADB consultants identify
non-bank financial regulator  program established at IBSL                        appropnate course of action.
2d. Establishment of Pensions Recruitment of key individuals                     Agreement within government
Reform Office              and implementation of                                 and stakeholders on
pensions reform policy                                appropriate course of action
2e. PSP in water sector    Completion of current      Consultant reports
contracts funded under PSIDC
2f. Assistance to PUC      Formulate an HR plan,      Approved Acts.
development internal
- 33 -



regulations, draft required acts
in water and electricity
sectors.
2g. Regulatory framework for Review spectrum management Approved Acts
the telecommunications sector and draft legislation for
telecommunications and
broadcasting sectors
3. Design and implementation Consultants hired on    Consultants report and follow
of a suitable strategic    appropriate ToRs produce  up dunng supervision
communications program     implementable mass comm   missions.
strategy for government and
strengthen government's own
long term capability.
4. Establishing and operating  Challenge fund disburses  Regular quarterly reporting
the challenge fund         residual funds during project
duration
- 34 -



Key Performance'       Data Collection Strate6y .l
Hierarchy of Objectives ]         Indicators       |                           |  Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Strengthening govemment's $1.5m                    Quarterly progress reports  Government willing to hire
reform management capacity                                                       suitable candidates on I year
contracts. Private sector
experts willing to join
government on a short term
basis.
2a. Privatization of People's  $1 .5m                 Transactions taken place   Willing buyer is located
Bank
2b. Technical Assistance for  $0.5m                                              Single buyer is not located to
the Asset Management                                                             purchase the bank "as is".
Company
2c. Capacity building of   $0.3m                                                 Non-bank financial sector
non-bank financial regulator                                                     regulator able to attract and
retain personnel.
2d. Establishment of Pensions $0.1m                   Project Supervision reports  Needs to be focused on
Reform Office                                                                    implementation rather than
further studies.
2e. PSP in water sector    $L.Om                                                 Contracts will have to be
renegotiated with consultants
to meet escalations.
2f. Assistance to PUC      $0.3m                                                 Draft Acts should be approved
by parliament in time to
establish the PUC.
2g. Regulatory framework for $0.3m
the telecommunications sector
$1.5m
3. Design and implementation                          Mass communications strategy
of a suitable mass                                    consultants reports
communications strategy
$9m
4. Establishing and operating                         Challenge fund committee
the challenge fund                                    secretariat reports
- 35 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.50 million
Strengthening Government Capacity, (especially in the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science
and Technology).
The newly created Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology (MERST) is the key reform
ministry responsible for implementing the reform program. The secretariat of the ministry is being
supported by key local staff hired on term contracts. The ministry has subsumed existing units such as
the Public Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) and the External Resources Department (ERD).
MERST also includes the peace secretariat, support to which remains outside the scope of this TA
project.
The project will provide funding to PERC and the newly created cells within the ministry dealing with
economic regulation, financial reforms and infrastructure reforms. Strengthening government capacity at
the ministry will include funding the heads of each of these units and a staff of 2-3 local consultants with
the required expertise to implement each respective sectoral reform agenda. Government will provide
counterpart funding to cover office locations, admninistrative staff, materials such as office supplies, etc.
Government has also requested funding for a small amount of IT equipment and other essential hardware
that might be lacking.
PERC is responsible for implementing the government's privatization agenda. As such, it is crucial that
the capacity of PERC is strengthened through the project. The project will fund staff on 1 year
renewable contracts, consulting inputs and any essential equipment.
Project Component 2 - US$5.00 million
Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance
While it is expected that the reform units themselves would be tasked with developing the reform
roadmap in each key area including the TA requirements, some of the requirements in key areas are
already well-developed. Sub-projects developed to the stage at which we can pre-allocate indicative
funding are as follows:
* Support to increased private sector participation in the bus sector: Government has requested
technical assistance in the bus sector to cover; (i) ring-fencing the accounts and valuation services, (ii)
route costings, and (iii) support to establish a transport sector regulatory capability. However, further
support to bus sector would depend on the outcome of the on-going bidding process and review of
government's proposed strategy by a Bank transport sector specialist.
* Technical support for the Peoples Bank(PB) restructuring Process - The government plans to
adopt the recommendations of the Joint Bank-Fund advisory mission on state banks. The report
provided 4 options ranging from privatization to liquidation. The government opted for Option 2
which recommended the conversion of PB to a public company and restructuring it into three units,
commercial banking, savings and recoveries. The government has requested funds to obtain the
services of a consultancy firm for the restructuring and privatization transaction. In addition they
would require office space, equipment and technical assistance for the bank restructuring unit. This
will amount to US$ 1.5- 2.0 million.
* Technical assistance for the asset management company- The government also has drafted
- 36 -



legislation to set up an asset management company. IDA will review and provide comments of the
draft legislation. The bank restructuring unit also has requested funds to visit a few companies in the
region to identify the best model. Once a clear concept emerges credit funds will be allocated to
support its implementation.
* Capacity building of the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL)- The Government is of the view
that a single (non-banking) financial sector regulator needs to be established. In addition to regulating
the capital market, the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka has been assigned the functions of the insurance
regulator. IBSL lacks capacity to function effectively as a regulator and needs technical assistance,
additional staff and training. A consultant funded under the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) is expected to assist them in identifying the gaps in terms of technical capacity and
skill development. However, funds are not yet available for IBSL to improve its technical capacity
through training and skills upgrading. This would need support under the proposed TA. Currently,
ADB consultants are in the process of selecting a design for the Financial Sector Authority (FSA) and
also the organization structure. Once it is completed, the FSA may require legal experts to draft the
law and identify training needs these would be funded by the proposed credit.
* Establishment of the Pensions Reforms Offlce & Capacity Building of the Superannuation
Regulatory Agency - Once the Superannuation Benefit Fund Regulatory Bill is approved by
parliament, the SEC will need technical assistance for capacity building to enforce the law and play an
effective role as the superannuation regulatory authority. In addition, the government has requested
funds to set up a pensions reform office to draw up a pension reforms agenda to develop the pensions
industry to provide more options and improved returns to the beneficiaries. They will need funds to
staff the pension reforms office with experts who will have professional qualifications in finance,
actuarial services, law and economics. In addition, they will also require space, equipment and
incremental operational costs to support this initiative.
* PSP in water sector: The proposed credit is expected to take over from PSIDP the funding of
consultants working on two pilot secondary town PSP transactions after the closure of PSIDP project
in June 2003. The preparatory work for Greater Colombo PSP transaction as well as required
implementation could be funded depending on government's commitment to move forward with these
transactions.
* Assistance to the Public Utilities Commission: the proposed TA will fund the following activities in
the PUC:
o      Formulation of a Human Resources Plan
o      Development of internal regulations, including recruitment criteria, rates of
remuneration, Manual of Disciplinary Proceedings, and procurement procedures to be
followed by the commission
o      Preparation of a Regulatory Manual outlining the procedures of the PUC in undertaking
the functions it is charged with
o      Drafting of Regulations and Rules as required under the PUC Act, the Electricity
Reforms Act, and the Water Services Reform Act
o      Drafting of licenses for the water and electricity sectors
* Regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector: the proposed TA credit will fund the
following activities:
o      Review and evaluation of spectrum management within the Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission
o      Development of draft legislation for the telecommunications sector
o      Development of draft legislation for the broadcasting sector
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.50 million
- 37 -



Strategic Communications
In order to maintain support for the economic reform program, government intends to undertake a
communications campaign that will raise awareness of the benefits of economic reform while increasing
government's capacity to understand and respond to the concerns of key stakeholders during the reform
process. A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize the issue of privatization
and encourage the public to view reform as a pro-active choice that will promote economic development,
improve service delivery and increase opportunities for individuals. The communications cell within the
Ministry of Economic Reforms will execute this strategic communications campaign.
The cell will be staffed by two to three communications experts hired from the private sector. A local
communications manager has been identified, with additional staffmg requirements to be determined.
International expertise will be sought from reputed communications firms that have led similar initiatives
in other countries undertaking massive structural reform. A number of prospective international
consultants are being considered. The communications cell will work closely with local public relations
and market research firms. It will also coordinate activities with relevant government ministries and
public sector entities.
The country-wide effort to involve and inform stakeholders of the reform process is likely to begin with a
detailed segmentation of the key stakeholders and will result in customized strategies to reach as much of
the population as possible especially those in the rural areas. The communications strategy will consist
of three interlinked parts: (i) public relations campaign to increase awareness of the benefits of reform,
(ii) two-way dialogue between government representatives and reform stakeholders to inform and refine
the reform process, and (iii) tripartite discussions between government, employers and unions on the
reform process.
The first step in establishing a successful communications strategy, undertaking a communications audit,
was completed in June 2002 by the Bank's own Development Communications Unit working closely with
South Asia External Affairs and government counterparts. The results of the communications audit were
reviewed and confirmed with government at the time of appraisal. The audit has assessed the
communications needs in relation to the political, social and cultural environment for the reform
initiative. It has also helped to identify key stakeholder audiences and gain insight into various concerns
and potential roadblocks. The results of the audit can be used to determine which strategies are needed
to build consensus, and identify the most effective messages and means of communication for specific
audiences. The audit builds on work already completed during the privatization awareness survey
finalized at the end of 2000.
The communication audit identified potential organizations, local or international, to provide
communications assistance and terms of reference for the technical assistance required to support the
communications strategy. It also includes a set of specific recommendations on the strategy, research
needs and capacity building requirements within the relevant government departments. Building on this
audit, government's appointed communications manager will develop a road map for a successful and
comprehensive communications strategy and action plan that will be funded through the Economic
Reform TA project.
Among the initial tasks for the communications manager will be to develop a preliminary strategy, which
will be refined with the assistance of the international consultant, and which will include determination
of intra-governmental coordination and staffing needs. The manager will also establish procedures and
criteria for providing technical and financial support for individual communications campaigns
undertaken by line ministries and SOEs. The criteria will include demonstrated need, sound design, and
- 38 -



integration into the government's broader economic reform communications strategy. A Project
Management Arrangement has been developed under the TA project. Any projects or transactions with
envisioned communications components should have such components included within the overall
project proposal. The communications component will be evaluated by the commnunications manager. If
and as needed, the comnunications manager will provide technical assistance in design and
implementation of individual communications strategies. Finally, the communications manager will
develop an effective monitoring and evaluation capability within government for effective sustainable
commnunications.
Project Component 4 - US$7.00 million
Challenge Fund
All other sub-projects that are not covered by the components above will be supported through the
Challenge Fund. The Challenge Fund will consider all sub-projects that are mentioned in the
government's published economic policy framework document, "Regaining Sri Lanka".
There are a number of other areas in which support is required but well-defined proposals for technical
assistance are yet to be developed. Such areas could include: (i)support to the smaller privatizations
managed by PERC, (ii) on-going support for the PUC, (iii) capacity building within PUC to regulate new
industries that are brought under PUC for economic regulations, (iv) medium term support to the private
sector participation in the successor entities of CEB after the unbundling process is completed, (v)
support to private sector participation in the port sector along the "landlord port" model including
concessioning the Jaya Container Terminal, (vi) support to structure public private partnerships in both
commuter and freight rail services, and (vii) inputs to streamline the telecommunications license regime
and hiring of transaction'managers to address capacity constraints within PERC. These inputs, once well
defined, can be submitted to the Challenge Fund for possible financing under the economic reform TA
project if eligible.
The remainder of the project funds will effectively be used as a pool of technical assistance funds that
can be flexibly allocated to sub-projects (some of which have been mentioned above) once they have
been prepared, appraised and approved. The Challenge Fund will allow the project to respond flexibly to
a dynamic and developing agenda. It is expected that all the relevant line ministries and government
entities involved in the economic reform process could potentially benefit from this pool of technical
assistance resources.
Rather than create another steering committee purely to manage this project, it was agreed that all
requests for financial support from the challenge fund would be approved by the Economic Policy
Cabinet Committee. Participating entities in need of assistance with economic reforms would submit a
concept note outlining the reforn implementation strategy, principles to be followed (e.g., transparency
of bidding process, no private monopoly, adequate regulatory framework, methodology for privatization,
etc.). The approved concept paper will be submitted to the Bank for approval. Within the parameters of
the approved concept paper, the government will be given flexibility to recruit consultants on the basis of
approved TORs. Projects that meet the eligibility criteria will be appraised and approved and then
funded on a first come first served basis thereby ensuring that the project channels funds to the most
proactive and successful reform areas.
This process will ensure that money is only allocated to well-prepared project ideas that include a
suitable TOR, procurement timeline and tied to government's stated reform objectives as agreed with the
Bank. Key milestones within the sub-project would be submitted that would allow the central project
management unit to supervise and monitor the sub-project going forward.
- 39 -



The Economic Policy Cabinet Committee will work closely with the project coordination unit. The latter
in effect would act as a secretariat to the committee in matters relating to the proposed credit. The
financial manager of the project coordination unit will be responsible for preparing and prioritizing
requests received by the committee, allocating resources as approved by the committee and accounting
for the use of such funds and preparing regular reports on the financial performance of the sub-projects
financed by the fund. The financial manager and procurement manager have both received intensive
procurement training during appraisal. This will enable thlm to follow World Bank procurement
guidelines throughout the project.
The Challenge Fund Operating Process
Line         State-owned      Reform
Ministries      enterprises     Ministries
Project Coordination Unit
Draft Sector Reform
Concept Paper
World                 >                      Eligibility
Bank                                         Criteria
Comments                 Economic
Policy
Cabinet Sub-
Committee
Detailed TORs,
RFPs etc.
World Bank                                    Procurement
No objections                                  Guidelines
Consultants hired
and work completed
Sub-projects are only eligible to receive support from the Challenge Fund if the following criteria are
met: (i) sub-projects must follow a sector strategy that has been approved by the Cabinet Committee on
Economic Policy (or Cabinet itself), (ii) sub-projects must be firmly within the sectoral scope outlined
above (i.e., financial sector reforms, infrastructure sector reforms, economic regulation, capacity
strengthening within govemment and/or strategic communications), (iii) have TORs that have been
approved by the relevant line ministry secretary or government official of equal rank, (iv) have TORs that
have been approved by Bank staff.
-40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
'Local       Foreign       'Total
Project Cost4yqomrponent-                 US $million   US $milli6n< hi :US;$million
1. Strengthening Government Capacity                        0.50          1.00          1.50
2. Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance            0.00          5.00          5.00
3. Mass Communications Strategy                             0.50          1.00          1.50
4. Challenge Fund                                           2.75          8.00         10.75
Total Baseline Cost                                         3.75         15.00         18.75
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs'               3.75         15.00        18.75
Total Financing Required                3.75        15.00         18.75
.ocal        Foreign        Total
'Project Cost By Category               .lS $mnillibn  US $mihlion   US,$million
Goods                                                         0.50           0.50          1.00
Works                                                         0.00           0.00         0.00
Services                                                      3.50           9.50        13.00
Training                                                      0.50           0.50          1.00
Total Project Costs       4.50          10.50         15.00
Total Financing Required       4.50          10.50         15.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 18.75 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 80% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-41 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Not applicable.
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Not applicable.
-43 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Participating entities will prepare a TA sub-project Implementation Plan which will include a
procurement plan.  This will list: (i) institutions/departments/persons which are responsible for
procurement; (ii) costs by procurement arrangements; (iii) approaches to be used for procurement of
consultants and goods; and (iv) timetable for the procurement of large consulting services. Workshops
on procurement and disbursement arrangements will be undertaken for TA implementing agencies.
The Project Coordination Unit under the Ministry of Science and Technology and Economic Reforns,
will coodinate the entire project. In addition they will also carryout the financial monitoring role,
provide assistance to participating entities in preparing and evaluating procurement documents as per the
Bank guidelines.
It should be noted that the proposed operation is a process technical assistance project, where most of the
expenditures will be identified and allocated during project implementation. Table A sets out the
procurement arrangements for the project as a whole. Individual TA sub-projects will, based upon their
scope of work, use different mixes of goods and consulting services. The project coordination unit will
monitor all TA subproject's procurement plans and activities to ensure overall consistency with the limits
set out in the PAD and the accompanying Development Credit Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.   ,Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.30            0.12         0.08          0.00       0.50
(0.30)  .       (0.10)       (0.06)        (0.00)      (0.46)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         15.78         0.00       15.78
(0.00)          (0.00)       (12.82)       (0.00)     (12.82)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.72          0.00       0.72
Incremental Operating Costs        (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.72)        (0.00)     (0.72)
5. Training and Workshops           0.00            0.00          1.00         0.00       1.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)       (0.00)      (1.00)
Total                            0.30            0.12          17.58        0.00       18.00
(0.30)          (0.10)       (14.60)       (0.00)     (15.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-44 -



Goods and Equipment
Goods and equipment including computers,communication equipment, office equipment (including
equipment for training), etc. will be procured following International Competitive Bidding Procedures in
respect of Packages above US$50,000 equivalent  and the rest of the items will be procured using
National Competitve Bidding Procedures in packages below US$50,000 equivalent (aggregate
US$120,000). Small value off the shelf items items including furniture, etc. individually costing
US$30,000 or less per contract, printing of awareness material up to an aggregate value of US$80,000
would be procured following National Shopping Procedures in accordance with procurement guidelines.
All ICB packages irrespective of value and first two NCB packages for each Participating Entity would
be subject to prior review by the Bank.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall follow the following procedure:
(a) Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Association (and as amended from to
time) shall be used for bidding;
(b) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least thirty days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids;
(c) Bid documents shall be made available by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fees;
(d) Qualification criteria (incase pre-qualification was not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and, if a registration process is required a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(e) No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, or small-scale enterprises;
(f) Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
(g) Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without prior
concurrence of the Association;
(h) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidders;
(i) Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price with the bidders,
even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(j) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without prior concurrence of the Bank.
(k) Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the project states, extension
of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (a) for the first request
of extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests for extension
irrespective of the period.
(1) All bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performnance security as indicated in the bidding documents.
(m) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed by the Association.
(n) A bidder's bid security shall apply only to the specific bid, and a contractors performance security
shall apply only to the specific contract under which it was furnished.
(o) Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost, and
(p) There shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
Technical Assistance
The bulk of the consultancies would be below US$100,000, and as such would be procured under the
Consultant qualification method up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,500,000 equivalent. A
- 45 -



few key advisors involved in important areas of economic reform would be hired on a long term basis.
Hiring of individual consultants (for services up to US$50,000 or less per contract) can be undertaken up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent.
However, with the prior permission of the Bank, other competitive methods (e.g., Quality-Based
Selection, Selection under a Fixed Budget) can be used where these are more appropriate for the
assignment. In addition for contracts estimated cost less than US$50,000 Single Source Selection may be
considered as appropriate.
Training and Workshops
Government has requested assistance in funding a small amount of workshops and follow-up training.
The workshops will be used to increase debate on major issues and disseminate the results of reforms to
interested stakeholders and those responsible for implementing the reforms. Training will be used to
consolidate skills transfer and ensure sustainability of the reform program.
Incremental Operating Costs
As defined under the Development Credit Agreement incremental costs means the incremental operating
costs arising under the Project and can include (i) local contractual support staff salaries, (ii) equipment
rental and maintenance, (iii) office rental, (iv) materials and supplies and utilities and communications
expenses. Incremental costs will not include the costs of vehicle purchases or the repair and maintenance
of vehicles. Incremental costs will exclude the salaries of borrower civil servants.
Prior Review
The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank:
1. Contracts for the employment of consulting firns estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000.
2. Contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more.
3. All single source selection of consulting firms/organizations.
4. First two ICB contracts and first two NCB for goods in each year and all the contracts estimated to
cost US$ 250,000 or above.
Post Review
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training: Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 and contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 shall be subject to post review provided that the TORs have been cleared with the Bank.
Procurement Information
Procurement plans have been developed for strengthening Ministry of Economic Reform Science and
Technology and the telecommunication sector. Implementation plans for subsequent subprojects will
include a procurement plan as well.  There will be quarterly reports on procurement, as part of the
Project Management Reports, which will update changes in timetables and in addition reflect information
from subprojects that have been added.
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by individual sub-project implementing agencies, to
- 46 -



the project coordination unit, for their respective components; and
(b) comprehensive quarterly reporting on:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost; and
(ii) revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contracts.
- 47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurenmerit           Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                (i) Contract of value more  (i) International   First two contracts every
than US$50,000        Competitive Bidding    year and all contracts of
value more than US$
(ii) Contracts of value  (ii) National competitive    250,000
more than US$50,000;          bidding
total aggregate value US$
0.12 million;
(iii) Contracts of value  (iii) National Shopping
less than US$30,000 total
aggregate value US$0.08
million;
3. Services                                                               all TOR and Shortlists
For Consulting firms                           (a) Quality-and Cost Based  (i) Contracts of value
Selection or Quality Based  more than US$100,000-
Selection or Single Source  Full prior review
Selection or Consultant's
Qualification or Least Cost
For Individual consultants                                                .
(b) Consultants      (ii) Contracts of value
Qualification        more than US$50,000
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
An external consultant would be hired by the Project Monitoring Unit to carry out ex-post reviews
and also asset vierification for not less than 10 % (by value and number) of the contracts. The
Association/Bank would conduct a sample ex-post audit on the consultant's review/output referred to
above. The Association/Bank will review the Project as it deems necessary, either by site visits or by
desk reviews of documentation. The consultant will maintain the confidentiality of the post-review.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement",and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Summary
The project has a satisfactory financial management system.
The project will use the transaction based disbursement from its inception. However, Financial
Monitonng Reports (FMRs), according to formats to be agreed at negotiations, will be produced on a
quarterly basis from the inception of the project. A special account will be opened at the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka and operated according to terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA.
The key implementing agency for the project is the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and
Technology (MERST). Though this is a new line ministry, it will operate within the regular internal
control framework of the government. Project financial management and disbursement arrangements are
streamlined to use the existing system of the government. Project accounting will be on the basis of cash.
The annual external audit of project accounts will be carried by the Auditor General, which is the
supreme audit institution of Sri Lanka.
Country Issues
MERST will operate within the framework of the normal government system. The following country
issues are therefore applicable:
1.     Availability of adequate budget provision and sufficient counterpart funds - GOSL recently
initiated a system for overcoming this problem, which until recently, was significantly affecting project
disbursements.
2.     Limited classification of project expenses - present government accounting system classifies
expenses only by major disbursement categories. This issue is overcome by specifying additional
accounting requirements when recording and reporting on project transactions.
Risk Analysis
Risk                                     Rating Risk Mitigation Measures
1.   MERST is a newly created line ministry L   MERST will adopt the normal control framework of
of the government, and as such, there is a risk  the government. Further, MERST has already
that project financial management               recruited competent staff to oversee financial
arrangements might not be sound.                management of the project. The project also provides
for capacity building of MERST.
2.    As the activities to be financed under  L  Capacity will be built in MERST and special procedures
the Challenge Fund are not clearly defined,     (including use of the Cabinet Committee on Economic
there is a risk that funds might be used        Policy) will be formulated so as to ensure that there is a
inefficiently.                                  sound mechanism for evaluating and pre-screening TA
funding requests from government agencies.
L = Low Risk
-49 -



Strengths and Weaknesses
The project has the following strengths:
*     Simple design and implementation centralized in the MERST.
*     Competent accounting staff in the MERST to handle project payments.
The project has the following weaknesses:
+     Challenge Fund activities are not clearly defined.
Implementing Entity
The project will be implemented by the MERST. All government agencies that require TA funding under
this project will have to approach the MERST, which will evaluate the request against the reform agenda
of the government. Once the TA funding request has been approved, MERST will be responsible for
working with the concerned government agencies to engage the consultant, following the World Bank
procedure. MERST will also be responsible for making all payments under the project.
Funds Flow
The project will be budgeted for in the national budget of the GOSL.
A Special Dollar Account (SDA) will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to deposit the proceeds
of IDA credit. MERST will have the right to operate the SDA and withdraw funds for reimbursement of
IDA share of project expenditure and for making direct payments. Even though government agencies will
be the main beneficiaries of this project, all project payments will be made by the MERST.
Staffing
Financial management for the project will be overseen by the Project Accountant in the MERST, who
will be responsible for (i) ensuring that all project payments made, are according to the relevant contract
agreements, (ii) maintaining supporting documents, (iii) recording project financial transactions, (iv)
reporting to the World Bank and government agencies on financial progress, and (v) preparing
withdrawal applications to the World Bank. He will be assisted by another financial officer.
2. Audit Arrangements
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The project will follow the cash basis of accounting. The present government accounting requirements
are described in government's Financial Regulations (FRs). However, FRs do not provide for adequate
classification of project expenses to extract information by project components. Further, FRs do not
provide for regular recording and reporting on physical and procurement information, as required by the
FMR guidelines of the Bank.
Nevertheless, MERST will take extra effort to ensure that project expenses are classified according to
project components and government agencies, so as to be able to produce the FMRs as per the formats to
be agreed. Given the simplicity of project transactions, there is no need to prepare a separate accounting
guideline for this purpose.
All project accounting records will be kept manually as well as in the computerized accounting system of
- 50 -



the government. All additional records and reports will be maintained manually, most likely using an
excel spreadsheet. Though this is deemed adequate for meeting the reporting requirements of the project,
the MERST can initiate action to computerize the accounting system in subsequent years, if the volume
of work necessitates this.
Internal Audit
It is not yet clear what the internal audit procedures are at the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science
and Technology. However, no reliance will be placed on the internal audit of the govemment, as it is
systematically weak across all ministries.
External Audit
Project accounts will be audited annually by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka (AG). AG is the supreme
audit institution of Sri Lanka and has been accepted by IDA for auditing Bank financed projects.
Audit Reports
Following audit reports will be monitored in the ARCS:
Implementing Agency         Audit                       Auditor
MERST                       Project/SOE                 Auditor General
MERST                       Special Account             Auditor General
Reporting and Monitoring
MERST has agreed to produce quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) according to formats to
be agreed and confirmed at credit negotiations. The formats to be used will be in accordance with the
guidelines issued by the Bank on November 30, 200 1. FMR reporting quarters would be March 3 1, June
30, September 30, and December 31 of each year.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The project will follow the transaction based disbursement procedures. Nevertheless, MERST will start
producing the FMRs from the inception.
A Special Dollar Account (SDA) will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and operated by the
MERST. Authorized allocation will not exceed US$ 1.0 million and may be used for all categories of
expenditure. SDA will be operated according to terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA.
Statement of Expenditure (SOE): The project will have five disbursement categories, including an
unallocated category. Expenditure under the Challenge Fund component will be claimed under the
consultancy services category (mostly) and the goods category, as the case may be.
Withdrawals under the credit may be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure
for:
*     Contracts for goods and equipment costing less than US$50,000
*     Contracts for consultancy services with individuals costing less than US$50,000
*     Contracts for consultancy services with firms costing less than US$100,000
*     All training expenses
- 51 -



*     All incremental operating costs
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Goods                                     0.50         100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
the ex-factory cost of local
expenditures; 85% of local
expenditures.
Consultants                               3.00              100% of foreign and 75% of
expenditure for local consultancy
services with individuals; and 80% of
expenditure for local consultancy
services with firms.
Training, workshops and study tours       1.00                       100%
Incremental operating costs               0.78           75% until March 31, 2005 and 50%
thereafter
Sub-projects                              7.00
Refunding of Project Preparation          1.00         Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                                            of the DCA.
Unallocated                               1.72
Total Project Costs                      15.00
Total                                     15.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawals may be made on the basis of SOEs for contracts for:
(i) Goods valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(ii) Consulting firms valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent;
(iii) Individual consultants valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(iv) Training; and
(v) Incremental operating costs.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Schedule,                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                          10
First Bank mission (identification)            02/10/2002                   02/10/2002
Appraisal mission departure                    09/20/2002                   09/20/2002
Negotiations                                    11/04/2002                  10/24/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/10/2003                   03/10/2003
Prepared by:
Overall project management and structure was prepared by the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science
and Technology. Individual sub-projects have been prepared by the relevant sector ministries and
institutions including; Central Bank, Ministry of Power and Energy, Department of Water Affairs, Public
Enterprise Commission.
Preparation assistance:
A project preparation facility of US$1m was provided to the government. This amount provided for
project preparation was successfully managed by the project coordination unit established within the
Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Ismail Radwan                     Task Team Leader
Naresha Duraiswamy                Privatization, Institutional Development
Sriyani Hulugalle                 Financial Sector Reforms
Pradeep Perera                    Infrastructure Reforms
Julie Fraser                      Infrastructure Reforms
Clive Harris                      Regulatory Economics
Vikram Raghavan                   Legal
Dale Lautenbach                   Mass Communications
Jose Manuel Bassat                Mass Communications
Zita Lichtenberg                  Mass Communications
Santhanam Krishnan                Procurement
Deepal Fernando                   Procurement
Cresenta Fernando                 Capacity Strengthening / Colombo Anchor
Ken Miller                        Disbursement
Julitta Rasiah                    Financial Management
Sumith Pilaypitiya                Environmental Safeguards
Krishantha Kumarasinghe           Financial Sector Reforms
Mary Agnes Evidente               Program Assistance
Kerima Thilakasena                Program Assistance
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower's Procurement Plan
Borrower's Environmental Framework
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Report
Communications Audit Report
Aide Memoires from preparation missions
C. Other
Bank of Ceylon Annual Report
Ministry of Labor - Request for support to Productivity Unit
Draft National Productivity Policy
Insurance Board of Sri Lanka, Annual Report 2001
*Including electronic files
- 54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
09-Aug-2002
Diflerence between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P076702       2002 Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Dev         0 00     75 00                 0 00      0 00     79 33      0 00      0 00
P069784       2001 Distance Learning Inibatve - LIL                0 00      2 00                 0 00      0 00      1 34     -0 33      0 00
P071131       2001 LK Central BankStrengthening                    000       3030                 000       000      2069       -140      000
P050738       2001 LAND TIT. & REL SERV (LIL)                      0 00      5 00                 0 00      0 00      4 37      0 03      0 00
P044809       2000 LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORMS                      0 00      18 20                0 00      0 00     14.27      -3 63     0 00
P058070       2000 North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project        0 00      27 00                000       000      21 97      663       0.00
P035828       1998 CONS OF MEDIC PLANTS                            0 00      0 00                 460       0 00      114       0 47      0.00
P034212       1998 MAHAWELI RESTRUCTURI                            0 00      57 00                0 00      0.00     22 82     16 76      0 00
P010525       1998 GENERALEDUCATIONII                              000       7030                 000       086      3451      3353       000
P039965       1997 ENERGYSERVDLVY                                  000       2420                 590       000       075       0.17      000
P010498       1997 ENERGY SERVICES DLVY                            000       2420                 590       000       151       322       000
P010513       1997 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION                            0.00      14.80                0 00      000       4 34      5 04      0 00
P042266       1996 TEACHER EDUCATION & TEACHER DEPLOYMEN           000      6410                  000       000      1884      2413      1064
P010517       1996 PVT SECT INFRAS DEV                             0.00      7700                 0.00     15.02     33 30     56 39      2 86
Total.       0.00     48910              1640        15.88     25888     14101      1351
- 55 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equwty   Quasi   Partic
1998               Apollo Lanka                   000     1.11    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1996/97            Asia Power                     0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Fitch Snlanka                  0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00
1997               LOFAC                          0.98    0.30    0.00    0.00     0.98    0.16    0.00    0 00
1981               Lanka Hotels                   0.00    0 64    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.64    0.00    0 00
1996               Lanka Onx Lease                0.38    0.00    0.00     0.00    0 38    0.00    0.00    0 00
1998               MLL                            0 50    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               NDB Housing Corp               0.00    1.06     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.06     0.00    0 00
1999               Nations Trust                  0.00    1.09    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00
1997               PackagesLanka                  0.00    1.11    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1999               SAGT                          35.00    7.30    0.00     0.00   15.00    3.62    0.00    0.00
2000                Suntel                        0.00    7 50     0 00    0.00    0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00
1988/95            Union Assurance                0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        36.86   20.70     0.00    0.00    16.86   16.88     0.00   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Paric
2001               SAGT SWAP                         1.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commnitment:        1 50      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Sri    South    middle-
Lanka       Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Populaton, mid-year (millions)                        19.4     1,355     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    850       460      1,140
G N I (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    16.4      617      2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         1.3       1.9       10
Labor force (9%)                                       22        2.4       1.3     per                             Gross
er                            pnimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994.00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  25
Urban populaton (% of total populaton)                 24        28        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73         63        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               15         74        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             33         47        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)   83         67        60
Illiteracy (X of population ago 15+)                    8        45         15
Gross primary enrollment (/ of school-age populatlon)  111       100       114              SrlLanka
Male                                                112        110       118              Lower-mIddle-Income group
Female                                              110         90       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                            40       8.0      15.7      163
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                 33 7     22.6      273       28.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            32.2     29 2      355       39.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   11.2     13 8      195       17.2
Gross naUonal savings/GDP                    174      17.0      23.7      214
Current account balance/GDP                 -16.2     -5.6      -3 6      -6 5     DomesIc    I      /          i
Interest payments/GDP                         0.8      15        10        1.1     savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               45 8     73.0      62 6      55 6
Total debt service/exports                   12 0     13 5       99        9.5
Present value of debtGDP                                                  42.8
Present value of debt/exports                                             89 6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  40       5.3      43        6.0        39               Sri Lanka
GDP per capita                       2.5      3.9      2.8       4 3       2.9               Lower-middle-Income group
Exports of goods and services        4.7      7.0      4 0       7.2       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (#)
(% of GDP)                                                                         20
Agriculture                                  27 6     26 3       20 7      19.5
industry                                     29.6     26 0      27.3      27 5     a-
Manufacturing                              17.7      14.8      16.4      169  o-
Services                                     42 8     47 7      52 1      53 0      o
a
Private consumption                          803      765       71 5      724              95   9L    97   58    99   05
General government consumption                8 5      9.6       90        104                -    GDI     -OGDP
Imports of goods and services                54.8     380       43 3      50.5
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual gnowth)                                                            s
Agriculture                                   2 2      1.9       4.5        1 7      2
Industry                                      4.6      7 0       48        75      Is
Manufacturing                               6.3      81         44        9 2
Services                                      4.7      6.0       40        6.8
Private consumption                           4.0      38        5.3       4 4     o
General government consumption                7 3      8.8       5 3      24 4            95    aS   97    oa    as   00
Gross domestic investment                     06       6 4       6.4       6 2             -E   xports      Olmports
Imports of goods and services                 34       8.6       70       12 9
Note 2000 data are preliminary esUmates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 57 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    20
Consumer pnces                            26 1     21.5       4 7      7.1    1
Implicit GDP deflator                     20 0     20 1      4 2       7.1   10
Govemment 1inance                                                              s
(h of GDP, includes current grants)                                           0
Current revenue                           235      232       18.3     170            95    96   97    99    99    00
Current budget balance                     5 0      0 9      -0.4     -3.3           -    GDP deflator  -*CPI
Overall surplus/deflcit                  -19 2     -7.8      -6 9     -9.5
TRADE
1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mllilons)
Total exports (fob)                      1,065    1,913     4,610    5,522    o.ooo
Tea                                      373      495       621      700
Other agricultural goods                 285      308       375      427    6.000
Manufactures                             360      628     3,308    4,012
Total imports (cf)                       2,051    2.689     5,980    7,320    4
Food                                     379      485       662      693    2,000
Fuel and energy                          442      310       500      901
Capital goods                            492      584     1,565    1,737
94  9s   98   97   98  98   oo
Export pnce Index (1995=100)                36      57       139      151
Import pnce index (1995=100)                42      71       122      132                U Exports    Elniports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   87      80       114      115
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,296   2.346     5,578    6,475     o
Imports of goods and services            2,197    3,054     6,800    8,235
Resource balance                          -901     -708    -1,222   -1,760   .2
Net income                                 -26     -167      -254    -305
Netcurrenttransfers                        274     424       912      999     -4
Current account balance                   -852     -451     -564    -1,066 -8
Financing items (net)                      371      537      413      549
Changes in net reserves                    282      -86       151      516    a 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       .      435     1,639      910
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           16.5    401       70.6     77 0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990     1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 Compositlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,841   5,863     9,797    9,065
IBRD                                      31      82        20        13                G 705 A 13
IDA                                       98      864     1,652    1,610                             B 1,610
Total debt service                         179      384       674      738          F 988
IBRD                                       5       14        8        7                                  c 161
IDA                                        1        8       27       31
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                          161     221        112      109                                   178
Official creditors                       135      307       160      159                                 D 1,780
Private creditors                         86       10       -83      83
Foreign direct investment                 43       43       176      173           E 3808
Portfolio equity                           0        0        6        6
World Bank program
Commitments                              152      321       56        18     A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             20      128       49       47      B - IDA  D - Other rrmullateral  F - Pnvate
Pnncipal repayments                        3       10       21        24     C -IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                  18      118       28       23
Interest payments                          3       13       14        14
Net transfers                             15      105        14       10
Development Economics                                                                                          4/4/02
- 58 -



IT-0                               81                                 81 to
SRI LANKA
O  TOWNS
GO  PROVINCE CAPrTALS
()  NATIONAL CAPITAL
- MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
> g tt (l NoRrHE>M.IIoibi..  WATER CONVEYING TUNNELS
RESERVOIRS
________i___-----__ - -- -                                -----  DISTRICr BOUNDARIES
- - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ALTITUDE IN METERS.
9-                                              A  *  XAnsXX  m SOLO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
2 anj's  (; Anztl K. 6 .                           200O
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1          1.  '0 1320  3i   d0 50
% X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f KPnP$KLMETERS
/  i   Anelm i     t ~~~~~~~~~~PROfiC' INC 
\7\-                                                                               7toGI2{ -y a G o l l w /  S d  p
J-g                     v.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VINCEt 
kf~      ~~~~C >g  -v     I $ RVNE+
Klcr  WESTERN  j                   (   --      \        ,       /
,': .' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It /,J,
N-{\XfOUTHl;iirEm  /
:   :  \><   x t jr-  _tXR O V I N Combcnuc~~~~~~~~~A
7~~~~ A- i \
COLOMBOkt                         '       4              ~      ~      ~             _ 6 
|    .       o               Mccrcalo                            orror=oJl=hhmaSABt









OMAGIMG
Report No.:         25066  CE
Type:     PAD



