E790
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC REFORMS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Framework for Environmental Screening
Prepared by
The Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
A Framework for Environmental Screening of Sub-projects
under the Sri Lanka Economic Reform Technical Assistance Credit
1.0   Introduction
The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) is implementing an ambitious series of structural
reforms including the restructuring of loss-making state-owned enterprises. In order to
achieve this objective, GOSL has requested the International Development Association
(IDA) assistance, through the proposed Sri Lanka Economic Reform Technical
Assistance (SLERTA) project. The project will strengthen government's capacity to
implement its economic reform agenda. This will be achieved by funding priority
technical assistance that will provide government with the executive capacity required to
implement its reform agenda. The implementation of government's economic reforms
will in turn expand the role of the private sector in the economy and put the country on
the path of higher economic growth. IDA, in conjunction with GOSL realize the
importance of the wider environmental impacts that can be associated with such a
program of restructuring and public private partnerships for management of poorly
managed State Owned Enterprises (SOE) and have decided to put in place a
comprehensive framework for addressing environmental issues likely to arise as a result
of project activities. The Framework is needed to serve as a template for undertaking
environmental audits to identify and quantify areas of environmental non-compliance so
that both the Government and potential private sector investor is aware of the possible
environmental liabilities and reach agreement on what needs to be done for the reformed
enterprise to achieve environmental compliance.
2.0   Project Description and Potential for Environmental Impacts
The project will consist of four components:
Strenwthening Government Capacity:  The newly created Ministry of Economic
Reforms, Science and Technology (MERST) is the key reform ministry responsible for
implementing the economic reform program of the Government. A Secretariat will be
established under the Ministry to manage the reform program. The Secretariat, while
established, has not yet been fully staffed. However, some additional units under the
Ministry such as the Public Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) and the External
Resources Department (ERD) are functioning units that have been transferred from other
government entities to MERST. The project will provide funding to PERC and the four
newly established units--(i) Financial Reform; (ii) Deregulation; (iii) Public Institutions;
and (iv) Public Sector. It is noted that the Swedish Government has pledged assistance to
MERST to establish and staff the financial reform unit. If this funding materializes, the
project will avoid duplication by supporting the creation of capacity in the other three
units. This will include funding the heads of each of these units and a staff of 2-3 local
consultants with the required expertise to implement each respective sectoral reform
agenda. It is expected that government will provide counterpart funding to cover office
locations, additional staff (minimum support staff could be transferred from ministries
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 2



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
with excess capacity), materials such as office supplies etc. Government has also
requested funding for a small amount of IT equipment and other essential hardware that
might be lacking.
Although PERC is currently a functioning unit it lacks several key staff. Given that this
unit is responsible for implementing the government's public enterprise reform agenda it
is crucial that the capacity of PERC is strengthened through the project. PERC will
receive support similar to that foreseen for the other MERST units. Government already
has progressed in the creation of these units and in order to maintain the reform
momentum, government has requested a PPF advance on the project. The advance would
be used to cover the contract amounts of key technical staff recruited to the MERST on 1
year renewable contracts and any essential equipment according to the procurement
timetable and guidelines included in the PPF request.
Considering the scope of this component, as described above, it is unlikely that this
component of the project would result in any adverse environmental impacts. Therefore,
it is proposed that this component be exempt from the Environmental Screening
Framework.
Consulting Technical Assistance: While it is expected that the reform units themselves
would be tasked with developing the reform roadmap in each key area including the TA
requirements, some of the requirements in key areas are already well-developed and it is
expected that further requests will be developed in the near future. At the current time the
requests that are developed to the stage at which pre-allocation of indicative funding are
possible is as follows:
* Privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Company (SLIC): Government wishes to
privatize SLIC following the recent successful sale of a majority stake of the second
largest insurance company NIC. PERC is about to issue a terns of reference for a
consulting study that will review the proposed sale of SLIC and present alternative
options for privatization. This study is likely to cost between $50,000-$100,000
depending on availability of individual consultants and scope of the terms of reference.
Additional advice on a consultancy basis will be required in the following areas; IT
implementation, legal, accounting, audit, and transactions support. SLIC management
will also need support for a pre-tender conference and the planned road show to solicit
international investor interest. Support required to see these tasks through to completion
is likely to cost $1m over a 2-3 year period and given the estimated sale size of $50-$80m
such a cost appears justified. Moreover this initial outlay in pre-privatization preparation
is likely to be repaid in terms of increased sale proceeds that would not otherwise be
realized. Based on the scope of activities undertaken by SLIC, it is determined that there
should be no environmental liabilities, therefore, SLIC will be exempt from the list of
projects that require to follow the Environmental Screening Framework described below.
* Capacity Building of the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL)- The Government is
of the view that a single financial sector regulator needs to be appointed separate to the
banking sector regulator. In addition to regulating the capital market, the Insurance Board
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 3



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
of Sri Lanka has been assigned the functions of the insurance regulator. IBSL lacks
capacity to function effectively as a regulator and needs technical assistance, additional
staff and training. A consultant funded under SIDA is expected to assist them in
identifying the gaps in terms of technical capacity and skill development. However, funds
are not yet available for IBSL to improve its technical capacity through training and skills
upgrading. This would need support under the proposed TA project. Once again the
scope of activities undertaken by IBSL is unlikely to result in any adverse environmental
impacts, therefore will be exempt from the environmental screening requirements
proposed for sub-projects under the Framework
* Capacity Building of the Superannuation Regulatory Agency - The Ministry of
Finance has requested a consultant to assist in the review and legal re-drafting of the bill
that will govern the operation of the superannuation regulatory agency. This input will
take between 2-3 person weeks. Once the Superannuation Benefit Fund Regulatory Bill is
approved by parliament, the SEC will need technical assistance for capacity building to
enforce the law and play an effective role as the superannuation regulatory authority. In
addition, the ministry will require the support of a consultant to draw up a pension
reforms agenda to develop the pensions industry to provide more options and improved
returns to the beneficiaries. The scope of work for the Superannuation Regulatory
Agency will not result in any adverse environmental impacts, therefore, is exempt from
the requirements of the Environmental Screening Framework.
* Lottery privatization: A concept note on the privatization of the Sri Lanka National
Lottery has been approved by Cabinet. PERC is proceeding to develop the structure of
the transaction but preparation work to establish suitable regulation for the industry
including a process to grant licenses to future operators (including on-line lotteries) and
the state run lotteries prior to their privatization is needed. The PERC is also considering
the option of introducing private sector management to the National Lotteries prior to a
potential sale and would like to obtain consultancy services to prepare the request for
proposal for a private management contract as unsolicited requests are already being
received by the Ministry of Economic Reforms. Once again based on the scope of work
of the Sri Lanka National Lottery, it is proposed that the project activities with regard to
the National Lottery be exempt following the guidelines laid out under the Environmental
Screening Framework.
* Restructuring of the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC): Although the previous
administration had only planned to unbundle CPC, the new Government of Sri Lanka has
firmly placed public private partnerships in parts of CPC on the reform agenda. Technical
input is being provided by both ADB and the World Bank to help restructure CPC and
spin off certain activities. Government has identified 4-5 separate business areas that can
be spun off e.g. bunkering, aviation fuel, marketing and distribution etc. The CPC legal
monopoly on all aspects of the petroleum sector has been removed thus paving the way
for increased competition and public private partnerships. The economic reform TA can
provide PERC with technical support on the petroleum sector following its successful
unbundling to see the project through the reform process. Technical inputs will also be
provided to help set up a common oil storage facility for the import and distribution of
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 4



Framework for Environmental Screening                                  Draft
petroleum products in order to facilitate a level playing field. Potential environmental
liabilities of the business areas of CPC proposed to be spun off, such as bunkering,
aviation fuel, marketing and distribution for possible private sector participation, is
significant. It is well known that the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) has been
more relaxed in enforcement of environmental discharge standards where state owned
enterprises are concerned. Therefore, all activities under this sub-component will be
subject environmental audit procedures laid out under the Environmental Screening
Framework. In the event that TA funds are utilized to establish a common oil storage
facility for the import and distribution of petroleum products, an environmental impact
assessment (EIA) will be undertaken as part of the technical assistance. The EIA will
follow guidelines laid out in the National Environmental Act (NEA) and World Bank's
OD 4.01, both to be described below.
There are a number of other areas in which technical assistance may be pre-allocated
prior to loan effectiveness that have not yet produced well-defined requests for technical
assistance. Such areas include; support to public private partnerships in urban water
supply and sanitation, support to the smaller reforms managed by PERC, medium term
support to CEB reforms, support to public private partnerships (PPP) in the transport
sector including the Jaya Container Terminal and technical inputs to PPP in selected
corridors and facilitate joint ventures in the rail sector, support to PPP in the telecoms and
ports sectors, assistance to revise legislation pertaining to the water sector, inputs to
facilitate the merger of the Department of Inland Revenue and the Department of
Customs, inputs to streamline the telecommunications license regime and hiring of
transaction managers to address capacity constraints within PERC. These inputs, once
well defined, can be submitted to the challenge fund for possible financing under the
Economic Reform TA project, if eligible. All activities mentioned above except for,
inputs to facilitate the merger of the Department of Inland Revenue and the Department
of Customs, inputs to streamline the telecommunications license regime and hiring of
transaction managers to address capacity constraints within PERC, will be subject to
guidelines set out in the Environmental Screening Framework and environmental audits
will be carried out in the manner laid out in the Framework.
(iii) Mass Communications Strategy: In order to maintain support for the economic
reform program, government intends to undertake a mass communications campaign that
will raise awareness of the benefits of economic reform including liberalizing factor
markets and introducing increased private sector participation in all aspects of the
economy. A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize the issue
of private sector participation and encourage the public to view reform as a pro-active
choice that will promote economic development, improve service delivery and increase
opportunities for individuals. The communications cell within the Ministry of Economic
Reforms working closely with the Department of Information within the Ministry of
Mass Communications will execute this strategic communications campaign in support of
economic reform. The cell will be staffed by two to three communications experts hired
from  the private sector.  International expertise will be sought from  reputed
communications firms that have led similar initiatives in other countries undertaking
Sri Lanka Econonic Reforn TA                                         Page 5



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
massive structural reform. The international experts will be part of a broader team that
includes a local public relations firm and a market research firm.
The country-wide effort to involve and inform stakeholders of the reform process is
likely to begin with a detailed segmentation of the key stakeholders and will result in
customized strategies to reach as much of the population as possible especially those in
the rural areas. The mass communications strategy will consist of two parts; (i)
Outsourced public relations campaign to "sell the reform process" and (ii) Tripartite
discussions between government, employers and unions on the reform process. The first
step in establishing a successful communications strategy is undertaking a
communication audit.  It is suggested that the World Bank's own Development
Communications Unit working closely with South Asia External Affairs staff carries out
the communication audit at the time of appraisal. This will assess the communications
needs in relation to the political, social and cultural environment for the reform initiative.
The audit will help identify key clusters of stakeholders and gain insight into various
concerns and roadblocks either real or potential. The audit will help to determine which
strategies are needed to build consensus, and the messages and ways to communicate to
these audiences most effectively. The audit will build on work already completed by the
unit including the privatization awareness survey finalized at the end of 2000. The
communication audit will result in a report that includes a summary of preliminary
findings on the communications needs and relation to the reform program, potential
organizations, local or international, to provide communications assistance and terms of
reference for the technical assistance required to support the communications strategy. It
will also include a set of specific recommendations on the strategy, research needs and
capacity building requirements within the relevant government departments. Eventually
this audit will become a road map for a successful and comprehensive communications
strategy and action plan that will be funded through the Economic Reform TA project.
The implementation will start with building an effective monitoring and evaluation
capability within government for effective sustainable mass communications. Based on
the scope of work to be undertaken in this component of the project, it is not anticipated
that there will be any adverse environmental impacts, therefore, this component will be
exempt from following the guidelines under the Environmental Screening Framework.
(iv) Challenge Fund: The remainder of the project funds will effectively be used as a
line of credit that can be allocated to sub-projects (some of which have been mentioned
above) once they have been prepared, appraised and approved. It is expected that all the
relevant line ministries and government entities involved in the economic reform process
could potentially benefit from this pool of technical assistance resources. The project
steering committee, to be created within MERST, with the help of World Bank
counterparts will develop suitable criteria for project eligibility in order to maintain the
focus and ensure the efficiency of this economic reform technical assistance project.
Projects that meet the eligibility criteria would be appraised and approved and then
funded on a first come first served basis thereby ensuring that the project channeled funds
to the most proactive and successful reform areas. The process for the operation of the
fund would be drawn up by government counterparts responsible for the project with the
assistance of World Bank staff. However, the process would ensure that money was only
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 6



Framework for Environ-mental Screening                                 Draft
allocated to well prepared project ideas that included a suitable ToR, procurement
timeline and was tied to government's stated reform objectives as agreed with the Bank.
Key milestones within the sub project would be submitted that would allow the central
project management unit to supervise and monitor the sub-project going forward. The
establishment of the challenge fund would begin with the identification and formal
appointing of a steering committee. It has been informally agreed that the Prime
Minister's Senior Adviser would chair such a committee which would include the
Chairman of PERC, Deputy Secretary to the Treasury, the Secretary to the Treasury and
other relevant government stakeholders as appropriate. The relevant ministerial
secretaries would be invited to attend sessions of particular relevance to their interests.
The core committee will be responsible for drafting suitable procedures for the fund's
operation that would be approved by the World Bank. Once approved, the fund would
function independently below the threshholds for prior approval. The Challenge Fund
Committee would start by appointing a full time financial manager who would be
responsible for acting as a secretary to the committee, preparing and prioritizing requests
received by the committee, allocating resources as approved by the committee and
accounting for the use of such funds and preparing regular reports on the financial
performance of the sub-projects financed by the fund. It is expected that the financial
manager will receive intensive procurement training in order to be able to follow World
Bank procurement guidelines throughout the project duration.
Considering that it not possible to identify the sectors or state owned enterprises that may
approach the Challenge Fund for financial and technical assistance at this stage of project
development, all requests to the Challenge Fund would have to comply with procedures
laid out in the Environmental Screening Framework. It will be the responsibility of the
Steering Committee to ensure that funds are provided to the institution/sector requesting
TA to undertake environmental analysis in accordance with the Environmental Screening
Framework. The World Bank will not approve any requests for funding under the
Challenge Fund if there is no environmental analysis already conducted according to the
Framrework or if the funding request does not contain a terms of reference and budget for
undertaking the environmental analysis.
3.0   Addressing Environmental Issues at Change of Ownership
At the most basic level, PPP may involve a change of ownership of the entities involved.
Environmental issues are best addressed at this stage in order to (i) identify the
environmental problems and liabilities that might be associated with the transfer of assets
and (ii) generate environmental compliance with the national laws. Addressing such
issues through environmental audits will also become part of the sale and negotiation
stages of the PPP processes itself.
There are two basic types of environmental audits that will be used under this project:
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 7



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
Phase I: A desk study designed to generate a view of the level of compliance of a
facility with the environmental regulations of relevance. These include aspects relating
to air and wastewater emissions and disposal of solid wastes.
Phase II: A site investigation that may include a number of specific studies on the
quality of emissions and/or of receiving environmental media e.g. soil, which will be
through soil sampling etc.
An environmental audit is best completed before the point of sale and will identify any
liabilities attached to the entity to be sold. Note that not all the costs associated with such
liabilities can be fully quantified. Once the audit has been undertaken, the vendor and
purchaser may address these as an integral part of the negotiations concerning the sale.
This information is required to decide on the level and extent of liability on each party
participating in the transaction.
These audits can actually encourage investor interest in the privatization program. When
environmental issues are treated in a transparent fashion the potential purchaser is
provided with a clearer idea of environmental compliance requirements and current and
future liabilities which can have a positive effect on the sale price.
4.0   The Current Situation in Sri Lanka
GOSL proposes to introduce private sector participation through a number of distinct
methods including sale of shares, management contracts, concessions etc. In all cases
where a significant impact on the environment is foreseen an environmental audit either
progressing to Phase I or II as required is appropriate and will be undertaken. A negative
list which comprises components and sub-components of the project that will not be
subject to the guidelines under the Environmental Screening Framework has been
identified in Section 2, above. The same section identifies all components and sub-
components that are required to follow the guidelines laid out under the Framework, in
order to be eligible for funding under the credit.
In all cases environmental compliance will be with respect to Sri Lanka's National
Environmental Act (NEA) and its associated regulations. But the audits may go beyond
this legal benchmark to compare against international best practice, particularly by
following guidelines spelled out in the World Bank's Pollution Prevention Handbook.
This might give the potential purchaser an idea of future compliance requirements, as
well.
Although most of the financial support envisaged under the SLERTA will be channeled
to sectors that have minimal or no effects on the environment .e.g. banking, insurance,
labor legislation etc. some industrial sectors have a large potential impact on the
environment. This includes the potential unbundling and PPP of the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation (CPC), the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) and other potential PPP targets
such as the Sugar Mills, plantations, the government's remaining stake in Shell Gas etc.
Therefore the project requires a framework for ensuring that TA support to these sub-
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 8



Framework for Environmental Screening                                   Draft
projects will be provided only on condition that these sub-projects follow the guidelines
laid out in the Environmental Screening Framework. Any TA support for the planning
for creation of new infrastructure such as the proposed common oil storage facility, will
need to undertake a EIA. A summary of the potential role of Phase I and II audits and
risk assessments that will be applicable to this project is given below.
5.0   Environmental Studies
Phlase I and Plase II Environmental Audits
Figure 1 shows the usual elements included in Phase I and Phase II Environmental
Audits, and summarizes commonly encountered forms of liabilities. Risk Assessments
are distinct from Environmental Audits, and are generally triggered only after Phase I and
Phase II Audits have been completed. Figure 2 shows the triggers selected for the more
usual types of studies to be included in the work on PPP in Sri Lanka, and the following
comments are relevant to this scheme as a whole:
At the commencement of the PPP process, the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science
and Technology (MERST) often has very little information available on the entity to be
reformed. Basic information is provided by the relevant Government body overseeing
the state-owned enterprise.  These include the completion of valuations and other
financial/strategic studies, including environmental compliance information (could be
completed by external consultants).
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                           Page 9



Framework for Environmental Screening                                   Draft
Figure 1    The environmental auditing process, and examples of the types of
environmental liabilities commonly encountered. Phase I and Phase II Audits may be
completed concurrently, although Phase II Audits more commonly follow Phase I
studies, in order to confirm the presence of specific forms of environmental liability.
The Auditing Process                          Common Types
of Liabilities
Phase I Environmental Audits:             * Contamination of the
surrounding environment by
Also known as "desk studies",                 emissions to the atmosphere.
these cover various issues, as             * lInpacts on receiving waters
follows: c                                    from wastewater and
f              sometimes also sewage
>  siting and adjacent land use;              discharges.
>  site history;                           * The inappropriate storage or
' aerial emissions;                           disposal of solid wastes,
>  wastewater discharges;                     affecting soil and
>  waste storage and disposal;                groundwater quality.
>  hazardous materials;                    * Inadequate site security or fire
>  site           security/fire               precautions, potentially
precautions;                               creating liabilities.
>  occupational   Health   &
Safety.
Phase II Environmental Audits:            * The contamination of soils by
metals, oils, or trace organic
These involve intrusive sampling              compounds.
of environmental media, such as:           * The pollution of groundwaters
>  soils;                                     by fuels, or by intermediates
>  groundwaters;                              or products of the process.
>  surface waters;                         * Off-site contamination by
>  aeral emissions;                           various pollutants, due to
> building/insulating materials.              aerial emissions or
wastewater discharges.
The samples are analyzed to                * The presence of asbestos-
confirm the presence and the                  containing materials, in the
concentrations of specific                    fabric of buildings.
contaminants. The data are then            * The presence of
compared to national or                       polychlorinated biphenyls in
international standards.                      electrical equipment.
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                          Page 10



Framework for Environmental Screening                                   Draft
Figure 2   The system   to be used for the identification and quantification of
environmental liabilities.
,.V  * Referral to the MERST at the time
. .  ---   the enterprise is being initially
considered for PPP (Positive List).
Tier 0:      A               * Entity to provide information on
All entities                     the environmental performance of
any manufacturing operation or
other potential source of
Akl .ji environmental liability.
Potentially significant impacts
*  Where potentially significant
*   l .   .  -- impacts on the environment are
thought to occur, a Phase I
Environmental Audit should be
A:'                 completed.
* This Phase I Audit will identify
{   Tier I:  A                 any environmental liabilities of
Selected entities                  significance, and may be sufficient
as a basis for the PPP in the entity.
*  In some cases, however, there will
be a need for further Phase II
l   *       studies, to quantify certain types
l  *      of liabilities precisely.
Significant contamination
>  Where the Phase I Audit suggests
. significant contamination exists
but cannot quantify this fully,
direct investigations will be
required, as part of a Phase II
{   Tier II:  \              Environmental Audit.
Selected entities               > This will quantify the liabilities
attached to the contamination, as
measured against NEA standards.
> A Risk Assessment may be
required thereafter
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                          Page 11



Framework for Environmental Screening                                    Draft
*  In some cases, the information provided to MERST will suggest that environmental
impacts exerted by the entity to be restructured are of no significance (Negative List -
Section 2). This may be due to the small scale of the activities, or their relatively
benign nature. In such instances, TA support may proceed without further specific
environmental studies.
*  However, where there is potential for significant environmental impact, the trigger
between Tier 0 and Tier I in Figure 2 is activated, and MERST will request the
completion of a Phase I Environmental Audit.
*  As noted in Figure 1, Phase I Environmental Audits constitute desk studies which are
designed to provide basic data on the environmental performance of an entity. In
some instances, these will be sufficient to identify and quantify the environmental
liabilities of significance attached to an entity to be reformed, and no further
investigations will be needed. In such a case, the completed Phase I Environmental
Audit will be utilized by the MERST as one of the bases for the transaction, and
MERST will assume responsibility thereafter for ensuring that the new investor meets
the necessary requirements of the legislation.
*  In particular instances, however, the Phase I Environmental Audit will conclude that
there is scope for significant environmental impact, but it will not be possible to fully
identify or quantify the environmental liabilities without further direct study. Such a
situation would exist, for example, where the Phase I investigations suggest that
significant soil contamination may have occurred historically, or where other
concerns exist (e.g. connected to wastewater emissions, or air pollution). In all such
instances, the trigger between Tier I and Tier II on Figure 2 will be activated. A
Phase II Environmental Audit should therefore be requested by MERST, and this
should be specifically targeted to provide the information required to identify and
quantify the environmental liabilities which are thought to be of significance.
*  The Phase II Environmental Audit will involve the sampling and analysis of specific
environmental media, as shown in Figure 1. It is notable that this will generally
require the laboratory analysis of samples. Both the selection of an appropriate
sampling regime and the use of high-quality laboratories will be of particular
importance.
Risk Assessments
It is anticipated that the completion of Phase I and/or Phase II Environmental Audits will
generally be sufficient to identify and quantify the environmental liabilities attached to
entities to be privatized in Sri Lanka. However, in certain instances, it is possible that
further studies will be required. This will occur where significant contamination is
confirmed to be present by the results of a Phase II Environmental Audit (where NEA
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                           Page 12



Framework for Environmental Screening                                    Draft
standards are exceeded), but it is not clear whether there is any impact upon a sensitive
receptor. Under such circumstances, MERST in consultation with the CEA and the
World Bank, may elect to trigger the completion of a Risk Assessment. While this is
considered likely to be very rare a brief summary of the process is included.
Risk Assessments seek to identify combinations of sources, pathways and receptors for
contamination or impacts, as shown in Figure 3. It is emphasized that these are highly
technical investigations, often relying on the latest international information relating to
the toxicities and environmental fate of particular contaminants. The "cutting edge"
nature of such studies limits their applicability in defining environmental liabilities in
transactions to some degree, and as a result, they are performed relatively rarely in
support of restructuring and or privatization activities.
The risk assessment involves three stages:
* The identification of environmental liabilities, which will be achieved through the
Phase I Audit, and sometimes also Phase II investigations. As noted above, in rare
cases, Risk Assessments may also be needed to fully identify the impacts caused by
particular forms of contamination.
*  The quantification of environmental liabilities, generally in financial terms. The
general methodology involves the design and costing of works to ensure the
attainment of compliance with the environmental regulations which are in force at the
time of the sale.
* The allocation of environmental liabilities.. This procedure will not be a matter for
local environmental consultants due to capacity constraints, but will be dealt with by
MERST directly with the assistance of the Central Environmental Authority (CEA)
and external expertise. Essentially, it will involve the determination of how the
environmental liabilities will be discharged, and how the costs for discharging the
liabilities should be allocated between the vendor and the investor.
This chain of the identification and quantification of environmental liabilities, followed
by their allocation between the vendor and purchaser, underlies all successful
environmental studies in support of transactions.
Sri Lanka Econornic Reform TA                                          Page 13



Framework for Environmental Screening                                    Draft
Figure 3. The procedure undertaken in Risk Assessments, involving the identification of
the most important source/pathway/receptor combinations, and the quantification of their
significance.
| uce I Source 2             Source 3      Source4       Source 5 | Etc.     >
Stage 1  .     *      .1          Pathways of different types
Receptor 1      Receptor2|      Receptor3 |     Receptor4     Etc.  '
~~~....................-............-..------...........--.-...-- -.......
.. -         -- Stage 1: The initial studies consider all source/pathway/  *--
.           receptor combinations, and identify the most important withl
respect to environmental impacts (of various types).
|Source 2 ||Source 5|
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Stage 2
Receptor 2        Receptor 3
Stage 2: The most important source/pathway!
receptor combinations are studied in detail, and
*        the specific impacts are identified. The costs of  s
remediation are quantified, and these data are
subsumed into the transaction procedure.
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA    *----.----.--.-- .Page 14



Framework for Environmental Screening                                   Draft
Figure 4 An encapsulation of the key attributes of the Environmental Audit and Risk
Assessment procedures.
• Use Phase I Audits to initially
identify all potential liabilities.
• Confirm the existence of these
Identify the                             liabilities through both further
environmental                             Phase I Auditing and Phase II
liabilities                             Audits, as needed.
* Where essential, complete a
Risk Assessment to fully
define particular forms of
liabilities.
> Design all measures needed to
achieve compliance with the
EPL issuance conditions at the
Quantify the                             point of sale.
environmental                           > Cost the works required to
liabilities                             attain compliance.
> List the costed works in a
> Compliance Schedule.
* Provide assistance to the
Government entity charged
with completing the
transaction.
* Negotiate the list of items in
the Compliance Schedule
individually, with the
Allocate the                              preferred investor.
environmental                           * Where necessary, provide
liabilities                             time after the sale is
completed for the investor to
attain compliance.
* Ensure that all Government
bodies provide written
agreement.
+ Ensure that the legal
documentation matches the
negotiated position.
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                          Page 15



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
6.0   Government of Sri Lanka Environmental Regulations and Procedures
In 1981 GOSL passed the National Environmental Act (NEA) and in 1982, created the
Central Environmental Authority (CEA) as a regulatory and enforcement agency. The
CEA's statutory and enforcement powers were strengthened significantly in 1988, by an
amendment to the NEA. A cabinet level ministry to handle the subject of environment
was created in 1990, with the appointment of a Minister of Environment to ensure that
environmental issues will be given the required attention. GOSL also developed the
Environmental Assessment Process and the Environmental Protection License (EPL)
Scheme as its two main regulatory tools. The CEA, which is the enforcing/regulatory
agency, has been assigned the responsibility to oversee both the EA and EPL process.
While both regulatory tools and its implementation methodology are described below, it
must be noted that the scope of SLERTA project is such that project activities will be
limited to restructuring of existing enterprises. Therefore, the most applicable regulatory
tool would be the EPL scheme, with the environmental audits (described above)
providing the basis for providing the EPL issuance conditions. The EIA process will be
followed by any TA request for planning the creation of new infrastructure facilities.
Under provisions of Part IV C of the NEA No. 47 of 1980 as stipulated in Gazette (Extra
Ordinary) No. 772/22 dated June 24, 1993 GOSL made Environmental Assessment (EA)
a legal requirement for a range of development projects. The list of projects requiring an
EA are prescribed in the above Gazette notification. In addition, the Gazette notification
includes a list of line ministries and agencies that are designated as Project Approving
Agencies (PAA). With the change of government in August 1994, and the resulting re-
allocation of Ministries, a new list of PAAs were specified-under subject area rather
than with the name of the Ministry, as listed originally-in Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No.
859/14 dated February 13, 1995.
The EIA approval/disapproval can be granted by the PAA with jurisdiction over the
project activity, only with the concurrence of the CEA. However, the project proponent
is not permitted to perform the functions and duties of a PAA. Therefore, in the event of
a PAA becoming the project proponent, the CEA will designate an appropriate PAA. In
instances where the project would fall within the purview of more than one PAA, the
CEA will determine an appropriate PAA or serve as the PAA. Any functions of the PAA
related to the approval of the project can be devolved to a Provincial Council only with
written concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Environment.
According to GOSL procedure, all development activities require environmental
clearance, in the form of an approved environmental assessment and through the issuance
of an EPL for operations. In order to obtain such clearance for a new project, the project
proponent has to fill in a Basic Environmental Information Questionnaire.  The
questionnaire requires information from the project proponent to enable the CEA to
determnine the level of environmental analysis required prior to providing approval for the
project. Upon reviewing the questionnaire, the CEA determines whether the project
requires an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE), or an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), or whether no further environmental analysis is required, depending
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 16



Framework for Environmental Screening                                  Draft
on the nature of the potential impacts. The CEA review is based on the list of prescribed
projects listed under provisions of Part IV C of the NEA No. 47 of 1980 as stipulated in
Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No. 772/22 dated June 24, 1993. All prescribed projects have
to be subjected to environmental assessments, either through IEEs or ELAs.
Thte EIA Procedure
In the event that an EIA is required, the PAA in consultation with CEA, is responsible for
subjecting the preliminary information to environmental scoping, in order to set the
Terms of Reference (TOR) for the EIA. The TOR is prepared by a Technical Committee
(TC) comprising experts in the relevant field, appointed by the PAA. In developing the
TOR, the regulations provide for the PAA to consider the views of state agencies and the
public.
Upon submission of the EIA by the proponent, the PAA is required to determine whether
issues referred to in the TOR have been addressed and notify the proponent of any
inadequacies within 14 days. In the event any inadequacies are identified, the proponent
is required to make necessary amendments and resubmit the report. Once accepted, in
addition to the EIA being forwarded to the CEA by the PAA, notice is also placed in the
Government Gazette and in a national newspaper published daily in sinhala, tamil and
English languages inviting the public to make written comments, if any, to the PAA
within 30 days. The notification would specify the times and places at which the EIA
would be available to the public. As a minimum the report would be available at the
CEA, PAA and in a GOSL agency in the locality of the proposed project. The
environmental regulations have provisions for public hearings on the project although it
is not mandatory. The PAA is required to forward all comments, either written or raised
during any public hearing, to the project proponent for review and response within 6 days
of completion of the public comment period. The proponent is required to respond to all
such comments in writing to the PAA.
The TC appointed by the PAA would then evaluate the EIA and require the project
proponent to respond to any queries raised by the TC. The TC would also evaluate the
adequacy of the proponent's response to any comments raised during the public
comments period. Upon completion of the evaluation of the TC, the PAA with the
concurrence of the CEA, would grant approval for the implementation of the proposed
project subject to specified conditions or refuse approval for implementation of the
project, with reasons for doing so. The notification must be made within 30 days of the
receipt of responses from the proponent. The PAA is required to specify a period within
which a the approved project should be completed. In the event the proponent is unable
to complete the project within the specified period, written permission for an extension
has to be obtained from the PAA, 30 days prior to the expiration date.
The PAA is responsible for forwarding a report which contains a plan for monitoring the
implementation of the approved project, to the CEA, within 30 days from granting
approval. It is also the responsibility of the PAA to publish in the Government Gazette
and in one national newspaper published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 17



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
granting approval for the project. It is mandatory that the project proponent inform the
PAA of any alterations to the project as approved and/or the abandonment of the project.
The PAA shall, where necessary, obtain fresh approval in respect of any such alterations
that are intended to be made to the approved project. The PAA in consultations with the
CEA, would also determine the scope and the format of the supplemental report required
to be submitted for such alterations.
The IEE Procedure
Upon review of the preliminary information provided by the proponent, if the PAA
determines that the project would have no long term adverse environmental impacts, an
initial environmental examination (IEE) would be considered adequate. Under such
circumstances, the proponent will be required to submit a detailed IEE for review and
approval by the PAA. The EEE will identify potential environmental and social issues
and the complexity of possible remedial actions. Upon reviewing the IEE, if the TC
identifies any substantial environmental issues that may arise as a result of the proposed
project, the proponent will be required to undertake a detailed EIA. In the event the IEE
is considered adequate, then the project proponent is requested to prepare an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), to address any potential environmental and
social issues as well as incorporate the PAA/CEA's approval conditions. The IEE review
process is similar to the EIA review process, except for the level of detail and analysis
involved, which is proportionate to the anticipated environmental and social impacts. If
no EIA is required, the proponent is required to prepare an EMP which contains remedial
measures to address adverse environmental and social issues.
The EPL Procedure
In order for existing enterprises to operate, the NEA requires the issuance of an
Environmental Protection License (EPL) to all enterprises that emit pollution into the
atmosphere. Enterprises have to apply to the CEA, for an EPL. The technical staff of the
Environmental Protection Division of the CEA will in turn evaluate the EPL application,
and conduct a site visit and based on the available information issue an EPL based on
certain specific conditions. The conditions list out remedial actions along with a time
frame for compliance, that need to be taken by the enterprise to conform to waste
discharge standards as listed by regulations under the NEA. Enterprises are expected to
develop a EMP which is a comprehensive plan to address environmental issues that may
arise out of operations of the enterprise. The implementation of the EMP is part of the
conditions of issuance of the EPL for the industry to operate. In the case of existing State
Owned Enterprises that may be restructured and/or privatized under the proposed project,
the environmental audits will form the basis of environmental analysis and will identify
potential environmental problems or issues. Remediation of the identified environmental
issues would form the EMP and implementation of the EMP will be part of the EPL
conditions and the enterprise will not be permitted to operate unless it meets the
conditions of the EPL. Therefore, during negotiations of the privatization transaction, the
EPL issuance conditions, which will be identified in the environmental audits conducted
for the enterprise, can be discussed with the potential buyer and agreement reached on a
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 18



Framework for Environrnental Screening                                 Draft
time frame to implement the remediation measures identified in the EPL. The CEA will
therefore, have to play a role in assisting MERST to address the potential environmental
liabilities of the enterprise.
7.0   World Bank Environmental Safeguard Policies and its Relevance to the
Project
Projects financed with IDA resources normally need to comply with World Bank
Operational Policies. World Bank OP 4.01 requires environmental assessment (EA) of
projects proposed for Bank financing to help ensure that these projects are
environmentally sound and sustainable. EA is a process whose breadth, depth and type
of analysis depends on the nature, scale and potential environmental impact of the
proposed project. A proposed project is classified as Category A if it is likely to have
significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented.
These impacts may affect an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical
works.  A proposed project is classified as Category B if its potential adverse
environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas
including wetlands, forests, grasslands and other natural habitats are less adverse than
those of Category A projects. These impacts are site specific; few if any are irreversible;
and in most cases mitigatory measures can be designed more readily than for Category A
projects. The scope of an EA for Category B projects may vary from project to project,
but it is narrower in scope when compared with Category A projects. In addition to the
Safeguard Policies of the World Bank described above, all enterprises subject to
environmental audits are required to follow the relevant sections under the World Bank's
Pollution Prevention Handbook. Considering the scale of TA to be financed under the
proposed Economic Reforms TA project, serious adverse, long term environmental
impacts are unlikely, other than in the Energy and Infrastructure Sectors. The project has
been assigned "Environmental Category B" status, which requires a partial environmental
assessment. While a majority of the project components will be largely environmentally
benign, significant environmental issues may be identified in the environmental audits
conducted for enterprises falling within the energy and infrastructure sectors. Section 2
identifies components that require to adhere to this Framework and undertake
environmental analyses. The environmental audit procedure described above will be
implemented for these enterprises and environmental issues that need attention will be
identified and will form the basis of preparing enterprise specific EMPs. Remedial action
on the identified issues which will be part of the EMP will be used by the CEA to
determine EPL issuance conditions.
World Bank OP 4.01 is very clear that for all Category A, Category B and Category Fl
projects proposed for financing under an IDA Credit, the developer must consult project
affected groups and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) about the projects
environmental aspects and take their views into account. Such consultations should be
initiated as early as possible, in the Project cycle. For Category A projects, such
consultations should occur at least twice: (a) Shortly after environmental screening and
before the TOR for the EIA are finalized; and (b) Once the draft EIA report is prepared.
In addition, the developer is expected to consult with such groups throughout project
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 19



Framework for Environmental Screening                                 Draft
implementation as necessary to address EIA related issues that affect them. In the case of
proposed assistance under the Economic Reforms TA, it is not possible to identify
potential transactions at this stage. Therefore, an environmental screening framework has
been developed that will be applicable to any activities financed under the TA project.
The level of analysis will depend on the individual enterprise and potential environmental
issues associated with the operation of the enterprise. Although not required by the NEA,
MERST has decided that this Environmental Screening Framework will be placed for
public comments prior to finalization.
8.0   Institutional Arrangements for Implementation and Monitoring the
Environmental Screening Framework
Once sub-projects are identified, the sub-project proponent or Ministry is required to
follow the procedure outlined in Figure 2. Based on the potential for environmental
problems and issues, environmental analysis based on either Tier 0, 1 or 2 will be
followed. The responsibility for undertaking the environmental analysis will remain with
the line ministry or line agency with TA support by MERST through consultants. The
TA funding request should include a TOR and estimated budget for the environmental
analysis. Since sectoral line ministries and state owned enterprises do not have in house
environmental capacity to undertake such environmental analysis, external consultants
will be recruited with TA funds. MERST lacks the technical environmental expertise at
the present time, but will have access to environmental expertise through external
consultants financed under the Credit. External consultants will assist the Project
Coordinator of SLERTA Project to ensure that the basic requirements of the
environmental analysis will be met. Since the Economic Reforms Ministry is a ministry
with a sunset clause, there is no necessity to build in-house environmental capacity. The
environmental audit and its findings must then be reviewed by CEA for technical quality
and adequacy, so that CEA is able to determine the conditonalities to be placed on the
EPL. MERST with assistance from CEA would then negotiate with the prospective
investor so that all environmental liabilities and potential costs are known at the time of
negotiating the transaction. CEA's technical capacity has been strengthened through
successive technical assistance projects funded by USAID, NORAD and the Government
of Netherlands. At present, a World Bank financed project, Environment Action 1
Project is involved in strengthening CEA's capacity to review environmental assessments
and strengthen its enforcement capacity.
In order to ensure the TOR for the environmental audits adequately addresses World
Bank Safeguard Policies, in addition to GOSL requirements, it has been agreed with CEA
that World Bank Safeguard requirements will be included in the TOR for the
environmental analysis. Upon completion of the environmental audit, the sub-project
proponent will forward the audit report to the CEA who will initially check the report for
technical adequacy of satisfactorily responding to the TOR.  The CEA appointed
Technical Working Group (TWG) will then evaluate the environmental audit and based
upon its adequacy, the CEA will determine the EPL issuance conditions. The sub-project
proponent is expected to prepare a EMP, identifying the manner in which the EPL
Sri Lanka Economic Reform TA                                         Page 20



Framework for Environmental Screening                                  Draft
issuance conditions will be addressed along with a timeframe. Under the NEA, the CEA
has the responsibility to ensure compliance of the EMP and the EPL issuance conditions.
Adequacy of GOSL Environmental Clearance
The composite GOSL environmental clearance process, in principle, is consistent with
World Bank environmental and public disclosure requirements. Although the CEA's
regulatory procedure is less than a decade old, substantial progress has been made by the
CEA in evaluation of EIAs and issuance of EPLs. Conducting environmental audits,
while not mandatory by law, has taken place in industries under the World Bank financed
Environment Action 1 Project and with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank
and USAID, among other donors. The National Industrial Pollution Management
Strategy for Sri Lanka has identified environmental audits as the cornerstone of the
country's industrial pollution management strategy. Environrnental Audits are fast
becoming part of the regulatory regime in Sri Lanka, with its implementation largely
voluntary at present but the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and the
Ministry of Industries are considering formalizing environmental audits in the future.
Institutional strengthening of the CEA has been supported by projects financed by
USAID, NORAD, the Government of the Netherlands, ADB and the World Bank,
therefore institutional capacity to review environmental audits is available at the CEA.
However, while implementation experience has been reasonably good, it has been agreed
with GOSL that IDA will still review and clear the first 2 Phase I audits and all Phase 2
audits and risk assessments to ensure compliance with the agreed environmental
screening framework and satisfactory EPL issuance conditions.
9.0   Public Disclosure
MERST has publicly disclosed the Environmental Screening Framework in-country and
given an opportunity for all interested parties to make any constructive comments to
improve the quality of the Framework.  Public comments have been taken into
consideration in finalizing the Framework. MERST has also requested the World Bank
to place this Framework in the World Bank's Public Information Center for wider public
disclosure.
Sri Lanka Economnic Reform TA                                        Page 21



