Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3722 
–
CE
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3722 
–
CE 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 2003, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter
 
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Challenge Fund” means the fund created under the Project for the 
purpose of financing Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) under Part D of the Project as 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Economic Policy Committee” means the committee composed of 
certain members of the Borrower’s cabinet, their authorized representatives, and certain 
officials of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Electricity Reforms Act” means the Borrower’s Electricity Reform Act; 
 
(d) 
“Environmental Framework” means the Environmental Framework 
prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Association on October 8, 2002, including 
any amendments made to such framework from time to time with the Association’s 
approval, setting forth, among other things, the procedures and mechanisms for carrying 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
out Environmental Screening, Phase I Environmental Audits, Phase II Environmental 
Audits and environmental assessments, as well as procedures for developing and 
implementing Environmental Management Plans (as such terms are hereinafter defined); 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a plan prepared in 
accordance with the Environmental Framework by a Participating Entity (as hereinafter 
defined) for a Subproject, which sets out the environmental protection measures in 
respect of the Subproject, as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of the plan, including any amendments made to such plan, 
from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Screening” means the preliminary environmental 
screening of potential environmental impact, if any, arising from, or relating to, a 
proposed Subproject to be financed either under Part B (support to priority sub-sectors) 
or under Part D (challenge fund) of the Project; 
 
(g) 
“ERD” means the External Resources Department of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Policy Development and Implementation; ;  
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on January 1 
in any one calendar year and ending on December 31 in the same calendar year; 
 
(j) 
“Insurance Board of Sri Lanka” means the insurance board established 
and operating under the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act (No. 43 of 2000), for the 
regulation of the Borrower’s capital markets and insurance sectors; 
 
(k) 
“MERST” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Reforms, 
Science and Technology; 
 
(l) 
“Participating Entity” means any ministry, department or agency within a 
ministry, or any other agency or entity, which is carrying out, or is eligible to carry out, 
Subprojects under Part A (strengthening capacity), Part B (support for priority sub-
sectors) and Part D (challenge fund) of the Project; 
 
(m) 
“Pensions Reform Unit” means the unit established by the Borrower for 
the purpose of formulating, implementing and monitoring of pension reforms within the 
Borrower’s territory; 
 
(n) 
“Peoples Bank” means the Peoples Bank of Sri Lanka an entity 
established and operating under Act No. 20 of 1961; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
(o) 
“PERC” means the Public Enterprise Reform Commission established 
and operating under the Public Enterprise Reform Commission Act (No. 1 of 1996); 
 
(p) 
“Phase-I Environmental Audit” means a phase-I environmental audit for 
certain Subprojects to be carried out by a Participating Entity according to the procedures 
specified in the Environmental Framework; 
 
(q) 
“Phase-II Environmental Audit” means a phase-II environmental audit 
for certain Subprojects to be carried out by a Participating Entity according to the 
procedures specified in the Environmental Framework; 
 
(r) 
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the project coordination 
unit established and operating within MERST for the purpose of coordinating and 
supervising implementation of the Project; 
 
(s) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Borrower’s Project 
Implementation Plan, which is satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, including 
any amendments made to such plan, from time to time, with the Association’s approval;  
 
(t) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on April 29, 2002 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
May 3, 2002; 
 
(u) 
“PSIDP” means the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project 
being implemented by the Borrower under a Development Credit Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association dated July 25, 1996 (Cr. 2880-CE); 
 
(v) 
“Public Utilities Commission” means the Borrower’s Public Utilities 
Commission; 
 
(w) 
“Sectoral Concept Paper” means the sectoral concept paper, approved or 
to be considered by the Economic Policy Committee, which is prepared by a Participating 
Entity in consultation with MERST or the Ministry of Policy Development and 
Implementation, and outlines the Participating Entity’s economic reform implementation 
strategy, the principles and procedures to be followed for implementation of such strategy 
and information relating to the Environmental Screening of any proposed Subprojects 
envisaged by the paper; 
 
(x) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(y) 
“Subproject” means an economic reform activity to be carried out under 
Part B (support for priority sub-sectors) or Part D (challenge fund) of the Project. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) on account of withdrawals to meet the reasonable cost of eligible expenditures 
relating to a Subproject, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account 
is requested. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2013 and ending October 1, 2042. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has prepared and 
submitted to the Association, a Project Implementation Plan in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association. 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance, of the Borrower at the time 
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
 
The Secretariat 
 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SECMINFIN 
  FINMIN 
21409 
 94-1-449823 
 
FORAID 21232  
94-1-447633 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
 
By /s/ Jayampathy Charitha Ratwatte 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Peter C. Harrold 
Country Director 
Sri Lanka 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
230,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost); 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
2,280,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 80% 
 
of
local expenditures  
 
for consultant services 
 
by
firms and 75% of  
 
local expenditures for 
 
consultant services by 
 
individuals 
 
(3) 
Training and workshops 
340,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
570,000 
75% until March 31, 
 
2005
and 50% 
 
thereafter 
 
(5) Payments 
 
for Subprojects under  
 
Part D of the 
6,080,000 
90% of amounts 
 Project 
(challenge 
fund) 
 
disbursed 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) 
Refunding of 
800,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
1,100,000 
 
________
TOTAL 11,400,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental operating 
costs arising under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries, 
equipment rental and maintenance, office rental and maintenance, materials and supplies, 
and utilities and communications’ expenses, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s 
civil service; 
 
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultant services by firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) consultant services by 
individuals under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iv) all training and 
workshop expenses; (v) all incremental operating costs; and (vi) all payments for 
Subprojects, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening its capacity 
to implement economic reforms aimed at expanding the role of the private sector and 
enhancing economic growth within the Borrower’s territory. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Strengthening Capacity 
Provision of technical advisory services, staff training, and acquisition of 
equipment for various ministries, departments, institutes and agencies, including, among 
other things, supporting the operations of PERC, ERD and other departments within 
MERST, which coordinate and implement economic regulation and financial and 
infrastructure reforms. 
 
Part B
:
Support to Priority Sub-Sectors
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the increased participation of the 
private sector in the transport sector, including establishment of a transport sector 
regulatory system, streamlining the accounting systems of bus companies, carrying out a 
valuation exercise of bus companies, and carrying out assessments of potential new 
routes. 
 
2. 
Provision of legal and technical advisory services and equipment for 
restructuring Peoples Bank. 
 
3. 
Provision of legal and technical advisory services for a proposed asset 
management vehicle to collect non performing loans and for the training of staff. 
 
4. 
Provision of legal and technical advisory services for: (i) the establishment of a 
single regulator for the non-banking financial sector of the Borrower; and (ii) the 
strengthening of the insurance regulatory capacity.
 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of 
equipment, for the establishment of a Pensions Reform Unit, including preparation of a 
pensions reform agenda to develop the pensions industry. 
 
6. 
Provision of legal and technical advisory services and training to staff of the 
Superannuation Regulatory Agency, for the strengthening of its operations and the 
enforcement of its embodying legislation. 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
7. 
Carrying out private sector participation activities initiated under the PSIDP in 
the two pilot secondary towns of Galle-Karutara and Greater Negombo, for the 
improvement of access to safe water. 
 
8. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Public Utilities Commission, 
through formulation of a human resources plan, development of internal regulations, 
preparation of a regulatory manual, and preparation of regulations, rules and licenses 
required under the Public Utilities Commission Act, the Electricity Reforms Act and the 
Water Services Reform Act. 
 
9. 
Development of a regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector. 
 
Part C
:
Support to the Economic Reform Communications Strategy
Carrying out a communications
 campaign for the Borrower’s economic reform 
agenda, through the organization of workshops and the provision of technical advisory 
services and training to staff of MERST and other selected stakeholders. 
 
Part D
:
Challenge Fund
Supporting activities that relate to the Borrower’s economic reform agenda. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultant Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
3. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
 
(iv) 
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(vi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without
 the Association’s prior 
concurrence; 
 
(x) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xi) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed by the Association; 
 
(xii) 
a bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xiii) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; 
 
(xiv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and 
 
(xv) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods procured through 
international competitive bidding during each Fiscal Year; (ii) the first two contracts for 
goods procured through national competitive bidding during each Fiscal Year; and 
(iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consulta
nts’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers,” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Sectio
n,
consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Consulting services under the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Consultancy services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultancy services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every three (3) 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
MERST shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Project 
and guiding the strategic ori
entation of all economic reform efforts within the Borrower’s 
territory. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Economic Policy Committee, or any successor 
entity or committee thereto, which is responsible for reviewing and approving Sectoral 
Concept Papers prepared by a Participating Entity. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain within MERST, the Project Coordination 
Unit whose mandate, terms of reference and composition shall be acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
(b) 
The Project Coordination Unit shall coordinate all activities under the 
Project, including: (i) financial management; (ii) procurement; (iii) monitoring and 
evaluation; and (iv) preparing and submitting to the Association quarterly progress 
reports and financial statements for the entire Project. 
 
(c) 
The Project Coordination Unit shall also be responsible for: 
(i) reviewing, prioritizing, assisting in the preparation of, and processing Sectoral 
Concept Papers, terms of reference and other documentation, for Subprojects and other 
activities under the Project; and (ii) assisting each Participating Entity in carrying out its 
Subproject(s). 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the Project Coordination Unit shall be headed by a project coordinator, 
who shall be assisted by a project finance manager, a procurement specialist, and other 
suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers; and 
 
(b) 
the positions of project coordinator, project finance manager and 
procurement specialist, which are referred to in this paragraph, shall be kept filled at all 
times by persons having qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. 
 
B. 
Project Implementation Plan
1. 
The Borrower shall prepare and transmit to the Association for comments, and 
thereafter adopt in form and substance acceptable to the Association a Project 
Implementation Plan, which sets out details of all operational guidelines and procedures 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
as shall have been agreed with the Association for the implementation, monitoring and 
supervision of the Project, including: 
 
(a) 
performance indicators and monitoring and evaluation guidelines; 
 
(b) 
administrative, accounting and financial procedures; 
 
(c) 
procurement and disbursement guidelines; and 
 
(d) 
the Environmental Framework. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion 
of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
C. Subprojects
1. 
Any expenditures on account of Subprojects shall be made in accordance with 
criteria, terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, the Sectoral 
Concept Paper and the applicable terms of reference, as the case may be. 
 
2. 
Expenditures for activities relating to any Subprojects shall not be used to finance 
taxes or duties levied on, or in respect of, eligible expenditures relating to a Subproject, 
or any part thereof. 
 
3. 
goods and services required for the purposes of financing Subprojects shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and 
set forth in the Sectoral Concept Paper, the applicable terms of reference or the Project 
Implementation Plan, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Using the Environmental Framework as a basis for further and more detailed 
social and environmental analysis, the Borrower shall, in respect of each Subproject, 
cause each Participating Entity to: 
 
(a) 
carry out an Environmental Screening, in a manner that is acceptable to 
the Association, for each Subproject to be financed under Part B (support for priority sub-
sectors) or Part D (challenge fund) of the Project; 
 
(b) 
where it is necessary and appropriate, undertake: (i) a Phase-I 
Environmental Audit; and, if required, (ii) a Phase-II Environmental Audit; 
 
(c) 
where necessary and appropriate on the basis of the environmental audits 
carried out under sub-paragraph (b), above, prepare and develop an Environmental 
Management Plan for a Subproject, satisfactory and acceptable to the Association; and 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
(d) 
where an Environmental Management Plan has been prepared under sub-
paragraph (c), above, implement such plan in accordance with the guidelines, timetable and 
other specifications set forth in the plan. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of expenditures for Subprojects under Part B (support for priority 
sub-sectors) and Part D (challenge fund) of the Project unless the Participating Entity 
responsible for implementing the Subproject has provided evidence satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association that it has carried out an Environmental Screening for the 
Subproject. 
 
6. 
Without prejudice to its obligations under paragraph 3, above, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
submit to the Association, for its review and clearance, the first two 
Phase-I Environmental Audits prepared under the Project in respect of any Subprojects; 
 
(b) 
submit to the Association, for its review and clearance, all Phase-II 
Environmental Audits and related risk assessments prepared under the Project in respect 
of any Subprojects; and 
 
(c) 
submit to the Association, for its review and clearance, all environmental 
assessments required by the Environmental Framework in respect of any Subprojects; 
 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation, Reports and Reviews
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 750,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  27
-
25
-
25
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  28
-
26
-
26
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
