                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000648




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-37220)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.4 MILLION
                         (US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

             DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                     FOR AN

          ECONOMIC REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                 February 1st, 2008




Finance and Private Sector
Sri Lanka
South Asia

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective January 30th, 2008)
                            Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupees
                                    1.00 = US$0.009284
                                    US$ 1.00 = 108.65

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1st- December 31st

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   Asian Development Bank                      MOFP       Ministry of Finance and Planning
AGD   Auditor General's Department                NCED       National Council on Economic Development
BOC   Bank of Ceylon                              NPA        National Procurement Agency
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                 NWSDB      National Water Supply and Drainage Board
CBSL  Central Bank of Sri Lanka                   PAD        Project Appraisal Document
CBSP  Central Bank Strengthening Project          PDO        Project Development Objective
CEB   Ceylon Electricity Board                    PERC       Public Enterprise Reform Commission
CDMA  Code Division Multiple Access               PFMSIB     Public Financial Management and Statistical
                                                             Institution Building
CFAA  Country Financial Accountability            PIPU       Public Interest Program Unit
      Assessment
COPA  Committee on Public Accounts                PPF        Project Preparation Facility
COPE  Committee on Public Enterprises             PPIAF      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
CPAR  Country Procurement Assessment Report       PREM       Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
CPC   Ceylon Petroleum Corporation                PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
DCS   Department of Census and Statistics         PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
CWE   Cooperative Wholesale Establishment         PRS        Poverty Reduction Strategy
ERD   External Resources Department               PSAC       Private Sector Adjustment Credit
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment             PSD        Private Sector Development
EMP   Environmental Management Plan               PSIDP      Private Sector Infrastructure Development
                                                             Project
ERTA  Economic Reform Technical Assistance        PSP        Private Sector Participation
FSAP  Financial Sector Appraisal                  PUCSL      Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                      ROSC       Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
GIS   Geographical Information System             SEMA       Strategic Enterprise Management Agency
GOSL  Government of Sri Lanka                     SLIC       Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
IBSL  Insurance Board of Sri Lanka                SOE        State-Owned Enterprise
ICR   Implementation Completion Report            TA         Technical Assistance
IDA   International Development Association       TAFREN     Task Force for Rebuilding the Nation
IMF   International Monetary Fund                 TERP       Tsunami Emergency Recovery Project
ISR   Implementation Status Report                TRC        Telecom Regulatory Commission
JBIC  Japan Bank for International Cooperation    TTL        Task Team Leader
MERST Ministry of Economic Reforms Science &      VRS        Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme
      Technology.


                               Vice President: Praful Patel
                             Country Director: Naoko Ishii
                               Sector Director: Ernesto May
                              Sector Manager: Simon C. Bell
                         Project Team Leader: Ismail Radwan
                            ICR Team Leader: Ismail Radwan

                                               Sri Lanka
                   Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project




                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1

 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9

 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 16

 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23

 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24

 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26

 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 39
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 40
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Economic Reform
Country:                Sri Lanka              Project Name:         Technical Assistance
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P077586                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-37220
ICR Date:               06/16/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:             SOCIALIST REPUB.
                                                                     OF SRI LANKA
Original Total
                        XDR 11.4M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 11.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Economic Reforms
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/26/2002    Effectiveness:        03/10/2003         03/10/2003
Appraisal:             09/23/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/10/2002    Mid-term Review:      10/29/2004         10/29/2004
                                     Closing:              06/30/2008         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  10                10
General energy sector                                              40                10
General finance sector                                             25                20
General transportation sector                                      15                10
Housing construction                                                                 50
Water supply                                                       10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Secondary        Secondary
Legal institutions for a market economy                           Primary          Primary
Other financial and private sector development                   Secondary        Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                 Primary          Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Praful C. Patel                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Naoko Ishii                         Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:            Simon C. Bell                       Joseph Del Mar Pernia
Project Team Leader:       Ismail Radwan                       Ismail Radwan
ICR Team Leader:           Ismail Radwan
ICR Primary Author:        Ismail Radwan




                                                 ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Economic Reform TA project will strengthen government's capacity to implement
its economic reform agenda.          This will be achieved by funding priority technical
assistance that will provide government with the executive capacity required to
implement its reform agenda. The implementation of government's economic reforms
will in turn expand the role of the private sector in the economy and put the country on
the path of higher economic growth.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval        Target       Completion or
                                              documents)       Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Ministry of Economic Reforms well staffed and capable of handling the reform
               process.
Value
quantitative orZero staff - new ministry Fully functioning

Qualitative)   created                     reform institutions

Date achieved 01/03/2002                   03/03/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Implementation of key reform objectives already included in government's
               Poverty Reduction Support Credit.
               Government intended to:
               (i) Unbundle the CEB, (ii)

Value          Divest shares of SLT,

quantitative orShell Gas and Sri lanka

Qualitative)   Airlines, (iii) Sign lease
               agreements for private
               participation in water, (iv)
               Abolish CPC monopoly.
Date achieved 01/03/2002
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values   Target Years
                New institutions have been created to drive forward the reform process and post-
Indicator 1 :   Tsunami and post-conflict reconstruction including SEMA, NCED and
                TAFREN.
Value           No institutions tasked
(quantitative   with driving forward the   Institutions fully-

or Qualitative) reform process             functional.

Date achieved 03/03/2002                   06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Key reforms have stalled or altered by the new government including the
Indicator 2 :   privatization of the people's bank. Other SOEs are now targeted for improved
                mgt and restructuring rather than privatization.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     03/13/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     09/17/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    1.93
  3     04/01/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    4.48
  4     10/06/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    5.84
  5     05/17/2005            Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               7.25
  6     11/16/2005            Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              11.54
  7     05/12/2006            Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              12.58

  8     12/22/2006            Moderately                 Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                  13.29

  9     06/14/2007            Moderately                 Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                  16.73



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



                                                iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Objective: The original Project Development Objective (PDO) was to strengthen Sri Lanka's
capacity to implement its economic reform agenda. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
stated that this would be achieved by funding priority technical assistance that would provide
government with the executive capacity required to implement its reform agenda.                                            The
implementation of the economic reforms would in turn expand the role of the private sector in the
economy and put the country on a path of higher economic growth.

Link to IDA Private Sector Adjustment Credit:                       The Bank had been in dialogue with the
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) on its medium-term economic reform objectives for some time.
In August 2001, GOSL requested IDA budgetary support through a proposed Private Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC).1 During the process of negotiating the conditionality of the PSAC it
became apparent that GOSL lacked the technical expertise and executive capacity that would
have been required to implement such an ambitious program of reforms. Government therefore
requested technical assistance (TA) from the International Development Association (IDA) to
fund the required capacity to design, manage and implement the reforms.

Scope: Sri Lankan officials identified and confirmed the following five priority areas;

     1. Strengthening Public Sector Capacity: support to building technical capacity within
           the newly created Ministry of Economic Reforms and a limited number of other
           stakeholder ministries.

     2. Infrastructure: support to implementing the reforms in priority sub-sectors: transport
           (including rail and bus services), telecommunications, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
           (CPC), and urban water supply and sanitation services. Reforms in the Ceylon Electricity
           Board (CEB) that were not covered by the energy sector restructuring project or the
           Asian Development Bank (ADB) assistance were also to be included.

     3. Financial Sector:            support to the privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
           (SLIC), reforms in the state-owned banks, and pension industry reforms, capacity
           building of the insurance regulator (Sri Lanka Insurance Board) and the superannuation
           benefit fund regulator as well as the privatization of the Sri Lanka national lottery.

     4. Strategic Communications: assistance to a country-wide effort to create a constituency
           that would support far reaching economic reform and increase awareness of the benefits
           of the privatization agenda for the trade unions and the public. This would include two-
           way dialogue with stakeholders including labor, employers and the public sector who
           would jointly design the details of the economic reform process in a transparent manner.

     5. Multi-sector Regulator: medium term support to establish the multi-sector regulator for
           infrastructure and the utilities. Initial support to the Public Utilities Commission for Sri
           Lanka (PUCSL) came from the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project



1
  Later on the proposed PSAC was turned into a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) but the main parameters of the program
remained the same.




                                                              1

          (PSIDP) funds and Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) sources. The
          project was envisaged to supplement this assistance with support to draft the relevant
          legislation, staff the key positions and provide resources for training.

Although the scope of items included in the project remit was broad, and appeared ambitious, it
was not expected that the project would be successful in achieving progress in all the
aforementioned areas. At the outset it was impossible to predict in which areas progress would
be made. Therefore the project included a broad scope of reforms and planned to channel
increasing funds to sectors that were more successful than others in implementing reforms. The
task team's approach was characterized by one director as, "backing several winners". Such a
sectoral approach avoided the risks associated with a more narrowly focused program of technical
assistance.

1.1       Context at Appraisal

The Bank's strategy as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)2 was based on
promoting private sector-led growth in a manner consistent with the country's traditional concern
for social welfare and equity. The strategy highlighted the need to liberalize the economy,
generate employment, improve living conditions and promote equity and social harmony. Bank
assistance was directed at supporting macroeconomic and sector reforms as a framework for
effective donor assistance and private investment.

The CAS was built on four pillars:

          (i) Fiscal discipline - structural reforms;
          (ii) Policy environment for private investment reforms;
          (iii) Social development and poverty alleviation; and
          (iv) Governance and legal reforms.

This project aimed to support the first and second objectives. It funded technical assistance in the
form of policy support, project preparation and implementation support and institutional
development. These various types of technical assistance were aimed at the following CAS
objectives included within (ii) above;

           Strengthening the regulatory/policy framework for private investment, especially in
                infrastructure;
           Continued support for privatization; and
           Support for financial sector reforms.

The objectives of the CAS that were supported through this Economic Reform Technical
Assistance (ERTA) credit were also to be supported through the proposed Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC).




2
 This discussion refers to the existing CAS at the time CAS Report No. 15633-CE dated May 21, 1996 and the associated CAS
Progress Report, (Report No. IDA/R98-190 which was presented to the Board on January 19, 1999).




                                                             2

Main Sector Issues

At the time of project preparation, Sri Lanka's economic performance had deteriorated due to the
protracted war, weakened governance and continued public sector intervention in economic
activities, especially job creation and resource transfers across groups. Per capita employment in
the public sector was the largest in Asia with the public sector providing employment to at least
850,000 persons. (This figure has since risen to more than 1.2 million). Sri Lanka had over 150
statutory boards, public corporations and public enterprises. With productivity in the public
sector well below that of the private sector, opportunities for growth and employment had been
missed.       Heavy regulation of the labor and land markets as well as the inefficiency and
shallowness of the financial intermediation system also constrained the productivity of the private
sector and were key obstacles to putting the country on a higher growth path.

The fiscal situation was dominated by defense expenditure, interest payments, civil service
salaries, pensions, poorly targeted subsidies and transfers to loss making state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) which together accounted for 93 percent of the total current expenditures at the time of
preparation. There was little room left for development expenditure. In 2001, GDP contracted -
by 1.25 percent - for the first time since independence in 1948. Moreover, rather than decreasing,
the budget deficit increased to almost 11 percent of GDP in 2001, the highest in the region
relative to GDP. Likewise the current account deficit increased from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1998
to 3.75 percent in 1999 and to more than 7 percent in 2000. Public debt grew to more than 100
percent of GDP in 2001 and total interest payments became, by far, the largest spending
component. A significant contribution to these worsening economic indicators was the continued,
huge losses posted by the state-owned corporations, especially the Ceylon Electricity Board
(CEB) and Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC). The accumulated losses of these large SOEs
approached 2 percent of GDP in 2001. As they had failed to curb their borrowing from the
banking system the losses also had a knock-on effect on the state-owned banks that financed them.

Government realized that these structural obstacles to continued growth and development
required urgent attention and that the country stood at a cross roads from which it could chose a
path of higher growth based on free market principles and reduced state intervention in the
economy. Failure to implement much needed reforms could have pushed the country towards an
economic and political crisis. Within this context, the new Government moved to promote peace
and re-emphasize the private sector as the main engine for future growth and employment. It
realized that moving to a higher growth path required pressing ahead with the ambitious structural
reform agenda to reduce the public sector's role in the economy, adapt public institutions to the
needs of a liberalized economy, improve the enabling environment for private sector development,
improve infrastructure and basic services delivery, and mobilize needed capital. It was hoped that
this project would facilitate the implementation of such reforms.

Government Strategy

GOSL had been in discussions with both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) on its economic reform program for many months. In August 2001, the Bank reached
initial agreement with the administration on a Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC)
contingent upon the achievement of a number of objectives included in a broad reform matrix
covering a large number of sectors. 3 Closely linked to the PSAC was the IMF standby


3
  As noted above, the PSAC was transformed into the PRSC following the drafting of the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). Despite
the change in name, the program was basically a continuation of earlier efforts.



                                                                 3

arrangement whose final tranche was released in early September 2002. A possible IMF Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) was discussed at the time but did not materialize until
later (April 2003). Government was in the process of establishing the groundwork for this
medium term external funding strategy by completing a PRS. The PRS consultations with civil
society, donors and interested stakeholders culminated in a local development forum chaired by
the Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe in June 2002.

The new Government had just come to power in December 2001 with a mandate for peace and
economic reform. With the change of administration came a new impetus for reform. The
primary objective of the new development strategy was securing peace and achieving significant
transformation in the quality of life of the people especially in rural areas through increased
incomes, economic modernization and invigoration of the rural economy.              Prime Minister
Wickremesinghe's United National Party summed this up in their manifesto slogan, "Let us join
hands for peace and a new economic future".

Government made quick progress in the desire to reach a peace settlement, starting with a cease-
fire agreement and steps towards re-opening much of the North East. The 2002 budget also set
out a new program of economic reform. There was renewed dialogue with the Bretton Woods'
institutions as the administration looked for areas in which it could achieve rapid change.

Against this backdrop, government realized that it lacked the technical and managerial capacity to
implement the ambitious set of reforms within the proposed timeframe. Therefore IDA was
requested to provide technical assistance that was required to fill this gap and achieve the
economic reform objectives.



1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

ERTA was designed to strengthen Sri Lanka's capacity to implement its economic reform agenda.
This would be achieved by funding priority technical assistance that would provide government
with the executive capacity required to implement its reform agenda. The implementation of
economic reforms would in turn expand the role of the private sector in the economy and put the
country on the path of higher economic growth.

1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
         and reasons/justification

The Project Development Objectives (PDO) were not revised during implementation. However,
shortly following the Tsunami that hit Sri Lanka on December 26, 2004 the project reallocated
significant funds towards Tsunami reconstruction activities. A further reallocation to support
such activities took place early in 2007 as the project neared completion.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

The immediate recipients of the project funds were reform-minded public sector agencies that
were better able to design and implement selected reform measures planned to liberalize the
economy. The central focus of these reforms was to encourage private sector-led growth.
Another objective was to reduce the need to subsidize loss-making public enterprises allowing
reallocation of expenditures to the social sectors.




                                                  4

Indirectly, the people of Sri Lanka would be the major beneficiaries of the reform process. It was
hoped that the reforms would introduce greater private sector participation to all areas of the
economy.     This would ensure that public sector finances that had been spent subsidizing
inefficient parastatals could be channeled to more appropriate areas e.g. increased spending on
health, education and other social priorities. Liberalization of the private sector through changes
in the Companies Act and changes in labor practices as well as deregulation of the rural sector
through changes in land legislation would unleash the private sector's potential in both these
areas. This would result in improved service delivery in the infrastructure sectors. This was
sorely needed as years of public sector mismanagement and low levels of maintenance and
investment had resulted in poor service delivery in almost all the infrastructure sectors, most
prominent of which were the institutionalized power cuts of several hours per day and increases
in the number of water cuts that prevailed throughout 2002/3.

The reduction of subsidies, enjoyed by the consumer for lengthy periods, proved to be
contentious. It was argued that tariff increases in petroleum products to cover the costs of
production would not hurt the poor whose typical consumption basked is weighted away from
petroleum products. This was confirmed by a Bank study completed by the South Asia social
development team at the time of preparation. Likewise tariff increases in urban water supply and
electricity would not affect the very poor as they had limited access to such services. At the time
of project preparation, less than 75 percent of households had access to clean water or improved
sanitation services. In the medium term, ending subsidies to infrastructure services would have
ensured the ability to expand the reach of these services while at the same time devoting more
resources to the poor.

In the rural areas, it was hoped that land reforms would liberalize land markets and improve
access to finance by allowing peasant households to use their landholdings as collateral for crop
and agribusiness loans that would greatly assist poor households in getting improved access to
finance. These reforms were all likely to come at the cost of public servants and the urban
populations that had until then enjoyed access to subsidized goods and services. Many such
workers were heavily unionized and wielded considerable political power. Therefore, integrating
them into the reform process and securing their buy-in to the reform process presented an
enormous political challenge. However, even this group of stakeholders stood to gain from the
reform process in the medium to long term as scarce economic resources would be allowed to
follow market price signals leading to greater efficiency and productivity.



1.5      Original Components

The project consisted of four components:

    (i)      Strengthening Government Capacity, especially in the Ministry of Economic
             Reforms, Science and Technology (US$1 million);
    (ii)     Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance (US$5 million);
    (iii)    Mass Communications Strategy (US$1 million); and
    (iv)     Challenge Fund (US$8 million).

In order to effectively manage the funds, the capacity of key reform ministries had to be
strengthened considerably. This task started with funding from a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance. Technical assistance sub-projects that were already well-developed and appraised
were included in the pre-allocated component. The project also addressed the need to build the
reform constituency and establish a two-way channel of communication between the reformers


                                                 5

and the people. This initiative was outlined in the mass communications strategy component.
The remainder of the project funds formed a pool of technical assistance which reform-minded
sectoral ministries could apply for on a first-come, first-served basis. This component was
termed the Challenge Fund. It provided the project with flexibility in meeting unforeseen needs
that were likely to arise during the project implementation period.                                Each of the original
components is presented in more detail below.

Project Component 1 : Strengthening Government Capacity, especially in the Ministry of
Economic Reforms, Science and Technology (US$1 million)

The newly created Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology (MERST) was the
key ministry responsible for implementing the reform program. The project supported the
ministry secretariat by funding key local staff hired on term contracts. The ministry subsumed
existing units such as the Public Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) and the External
Resources Department (ERD). MERST also included the peace secretariat, support to which
remained outside the scope of this project.

The project provided funding to PERC and the newly created cells within the ministry dealing
with economic regulation, financial reforms and infrastructure reforms. Strengthening capacity at
the ministry included funding the heads of each of these newly created units and a staff of two to
three local consultants with the required expertise to implement the respective sectoral reform
agenda. Government provided counterpart funding to cover office costs, administrative staff,
materials such as office supplies etc. The project also provided additional funding for a small
amount of information technology (IT) equipment and other essential hardware that was lacking.


Project Component 2 : Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance (US$5 million)

Some of the TA requirements in key areas were already well-developed at the time of appraisal
including:

         Support to Increased Private Sector Participation in the Bus Sector:                                      Technical
assistance was requested in the bus sector to cover: (i) ring-fencing the accounts and valuation
services; (ii) establish new route costings; and (iii) support to establish an improved transport
sector regulatory capability.

         Technical support for the Peoples Bank restructuring process: The government adopted
the recommendations of a Joint Bank-Fund advisory mission4. The report provided four options
ranging from privatization to liquidation.                       The government opted for option 2 which
recommended converting the People's Bank to a public company and dividing it into three units,
(commercial, savings and recoveries) and then privatizing the commercial banking arm. Funds
were requested to obtain the services of a consultancy firm to oversee the restructuring and
privatization transaction.




4
  An earlier Financial Sector Appraisal (FSAP) mission in 2002, had recommended that the People's Bank be restructured and that a
joint Bank-Fund mission be fielded to design options for GOSL.




                                                                6

       Technical assistance to create an Asset Management Company (AMC): Legislation was
drafted to set up an asset management company. IDA support was sought to review the legislation
and provide funds for the bank restructuring unit to visit a few companies in the region to identify
the best model.

       Privatization of Sri Lanka Insurance Company (SLIC): Government wished to privatize
SLIC following the successful sale of a majority stake of the second largest insurance company
National Insurance Corporation (NIC). Consultancy support was sought for the following areas:
IT implementation, legal, accounting, audit, and transactions support.

       Capacity Building of the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL): The view emerged that a
single (non-banking) financial sector regulator needed to be established. In addition to regulating
the capital market, the IBSL was assigned the functions of the insurance regulator. IBSL lacked
the capacity to function effectively as a regulator and needed technical assistance, additional staff
and training.

       Capacity Building of the Superannuation Regulatory Agency: The Ministry of Finance
requested support to the Superannuation Regulatory Agency. The project was to support the
drafting of the Superannuation Benefit Fund Regulatory Bill and provide technical assistance to
enforce the law and play an effective role as the superannuation regulatory authority. In addition,
the ministry required the support of a consultant to draw up a pension reforms agenda to develop
the pensions industry to provide more options and improved returns to the beneficiaries.

       Private Participation in the Water Sector: Government requested that the ERTA project
take over the funding from the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP) of the
consultants working on two pilot secondary town PSP transactions.

       Assistance to the Public Utilities Commission: IDA support was requested to establish
the PUCSL including; formulating a Human Resource (HR) plan, developing internal regulations
and a regulatory manual, and drafting the necessary reform acts and licenses for the liberalized
sectors.

       Regulatory Framework for the Telecommunications Sector:            Government requested
support to review spectrum management and draft legislation for the telecom and broadcasting
sectors.

At appraisal there were a number of other areas in which support was required but well-defined
proposals for technical assistance were yet to be developed. Such areas included; support to the
smaller privatizations managed by PERC, medium term support to the CEB restructuring and
proposed privatization, support to private participation in the transport sector including
developing a concession agreement for the Jaya Container Terminal and technical inputs to
concession selected corridors and facilitate joint ventures in the rail sector, support to private
participation in the telecoms and ports sectors, assistance to revise water sector legislation, and
inputs to facilitate the merger of the Departments of Inland Revenue and Customs.

Project Component 3 : Mass Communications Strategy (US$1 million)

In order to maintain support for the economic reform program, a mass communications campaign
was to be undertaken to raise awareness of the benefits of economic reforms. A major goal of the
communications campaign was to de-politicize the issue of privatization and encourage the public



                                                 7

to view reform as a pro-active choice that would promote economic development, improve
service delivery and increase opportunities for individuals. A communications cell was setup
within the Ministry of Economic Reforms (MERST). It worked closely with the Department of
Information within the Ministry of Mass Communications to execute the strategic
communications campaign in support of economic reform.

The cell was staffed with communications experts hired from the private sector. International
expertise was sought from reputed communications firms and individuals that had led similar
initiatives in other countries that had successfully reformed. The international experts were part of
a broader team that included a local public relations firm and a market research firm as well as
ex-editors from local newspapers. The mass communications effort began with a detailed
segmentation of the key stakeholders and customized strategies to reach as much of the
population as possible especially those in the rural areas. The planned mass communications
strategy consisted of three parts: (i) outsourced public relations campaign to "sell the reform
process"; (ii) two-way dialogue between public sector representatives and reform stakeholders to
inform and refine the reform process; and (iii) tripartite discussions between the public sector,
employers and unions on the reform process.

Project Component 4 : Challenge Fund (US$8 million)

The remainder of the project resources were used as a pool of technical assistance funds that were
flexibly allocated to sub-projects (some of which have been mentioned above) once they were
prepared, appraised and approved. The use of these funds was decided upon by the Cabinet sub-
committee on economic affairs which effectively served as the Challenge Fund Committee.

The Challenge Fund Operating Process


                Line
               Ministrie       Stat -Owned    Line
                                Enterprise   Ministrie



        Line
      Ministrie



                     Challenge Fund
                        Committee

                                                   Eligibility
                                                      Criteria

                         Concept Note

                                                Environmental
                                                  Assessment
                        Detailed ToR ,
                           RFP etc.
 World Bank                                      Procurement
No objections          Consultants Hir
                                   Hired,          Guidelines

                        Training and/or
                       equipment supplied




                                                      8

It was important that this pool of untied funds was well utilized. A robust process was devised to
ensure that the money was allocated only to well-prepared project ideas.                                              All requesting
ministries were required to draft a sector strategy paper that would be discussed and agreed with
IDA staff. In many cases, such strategies already existed and in other cases all that was required
was a two to three page note that outlined positions on the major sectoral issues. Once a
consensus was reached on the appropriate way forward, Terms of Reference (TORs) would be
drafted for the work (with support from IDA technical experts if requested). They included a
procurement timeline and method for selection of consultants. The proposal was therefore tied to
stated reform objectives agreed with the Bank. Large project proposals and the overall utilization
of the funds were also subject to review by the Cabinet sub-committee on economic affairs which
met weekly and was chaired by a senior adviser to the Prime Minister.



1.6         Revised Components and other significant changes

The original project components were not altered during implementation. However, following
the Indian Ocean Tsunami that hit Sri Lanka on December 26, 2004, a reallocation from the
original project was made to provide immediate finance to support Tsunami reconstruction. The
project disbursed approximately US$5 million to support Tsunami-reconstruction through Part Z
reallocations in March 2005. At the time that this reallocation was made it was not clear whether
the money would be returned to the project at a later date once additional financing had been
approved for Tsunami-relief by the Bank's Board.                                 Hence the project was never formally
restructured. A further amount was disbursed to support post-Tsunami housing early in 2007. By
the time the project closed, a total amount of US$ 7.4 million, or roughly half the original project
amount, had been reallocated to support Tsunami reconstruction activities.5



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1         Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project preparation team identified a number of project risks in the PAD and incorporated a
number of lessons from earlier operations. The team did a good job in identifying the risks to the
project, most of which came to pass during project implementation. However, the mitigation
strategies that accompanied this analysis were not as well thought through. Hence the team was
not able to keep the project performing as effectively after the change in administration. An
analysis of the key issues raised at appraisal follows.

Government commitment: The PAD identified commitment as a key issue. It stated that the
reform program was ambitious and that there was a window of opportunity until April 2004 (the
date of the elections) in which to implement the program. It also noted that commitment to the
reforms came from the highest levels of the administration. "This is indicated by the Prime



5
  A formal review of the part Z component will be covered in a subsequent ICR. Several projects provided immediate funding to
support Tsunami activities and the last project to close will include a formal review of all the part Z reallocations. At the time of
writing, it was most likely to be that for the Second North East Irrigated Agriculture Project (NEIAP II).




                                                                     9

Minister himself taking on the Minister's position at the Ministry of Policy Development".
Unfortunately the team failed to realize that Sri Lanka's political system is based on an executive
Presidency. Shortly after appraisal an uncomfortable cohabitation between the Prime Minister
Ranil Wickremasinghe and the President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga emerged despite
the fact that they came from opposing political parties. Within two years this arrangement
unraveled. Without a political consensus the reform agenda slowed down markedly.

Management turnover: The PAD identified management turnover as a key issue in many
projects in South Asia. But it pointed to government commitment to the reform agenda as a
solution. The team did not develop a mitigation strategy nor did the PAD require government to
commit to keeping key civil servants and project directors in place for certain periods.

Failed recapitalization of the State Banks:           The financial sector reforms represented an
important part of the reform program. In this area, the PAD realized that earlier reforms
attempted in the State Banks had met with poor results. The preparation team correctly identified
that previous improvements in state-owned banks were undermined by consequent
recapitalizations that effectively prolonged poor practices such as insider-lending, a poor credit
culture and lack of competitiveness. The PAD stated that a recapitalization of the banks would
only be considered within the context of a privatization. Following the change of government,
the new administration did not want to privatize the People's Bank and so IDA resources to
recapitalize the bank did not materialise. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) stepped in to
recapitalize the bank.

It is debatable whether IDA should have been more flexible on this issue. While it is true that
previous recapitalizations all met with failure, the team did not attempt to put together a "plan B".
The team should have considered alternative methods for restructuring the banks and improving
their performance that did not involve privatizing them. The team could also have considered
more carefully the probability that the administration could succeed in tackling such a politicized
agenda without complete control of the executive branch.

In the event, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) were hired as transactions advisers to support the
proposed sale of the People's Bank. The decision to privatize the bank was overturned shortly
after the change in administration and the project was forced to pay for the mobilization fee (of
the order of $200,000) for the consultants. It is clear that Sri Lanka did not receive much benefit
from this outlay.

Clear eligibility criteria: Since the project included a large amount of funds that had not been
allocated prior to Board presentation, the PAD correctly identified the need to ring-fence the
funds for the purposes agreed. In practice the loose eligibility criteria proved useful only as long
as the IDA team had a mutual understanding of the project objectives with counterparts. This
allowed the project to support a number of ad hoc reform initiatives and respond quickly to
windows of opportunity in a dynamic situation. However, once the government changed it also
allowed the new administration to change direction without having to renegotiate the project.
When the government changed, it might have been better to renegotiate clearer eligibility criteria
with the new administration.

Delays in procurement: This is an issue that affects a majority of projects in the South Asia
region and it was highlighted in the PAD as a potential challenge. In practice however, the
procurement process was relatively streamlined as an experienced procurement manager was
recruited with support from a strong implementation unit. This was a key to the smooth project



                                                  10

implementation. Many of the sectoral units also planned for long lead times in some cases and
completed a lot of preparatory activities in other cases.

2.2      Implementation

The government project team was well prepared and the project coordination unit operated
smoothly from the start. A competent team was put in place at MERST and an ambitious reform
program was quickly launched. The first supervision mission that took place six months after
effectiveness found that the project was running well ahead of schedule with more than 13
percent of funds already disbursed and more than 55 percent of the funds committed.

More importantly, the first mission also noted that the project was already producing real results
that would soon be felt in the economy. The passing of key reform legislation and the creation of
the PUC were vital prerequisites to increased private sector participation in infrastructure. The
mission noted that the reform teams had also made good progress with reforms in the financial,
electricity and petroleum sectors.

From the very beginning however, there was little to no progress made on the strategic
communications component. IDA staff tried to emphasize the importance of this component and
highlighted the need to mount an effective communications campaign for the various reform
efforts especially for the contentious issues such as the proposed People's Bank privatization. It
was clear from the start that the reform program would be sensitive and politically contentious.
The Bank's advice was to communicate early and openly about these issues to build support for
the program. However, the administration's instincts were to try and move forward through
stealth. A number of privatizations were executed successfully in this manner most notably the
Sri Lanka Insurance Company privatization and the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment
(CWE) sale. However, short term gains did not build long term support for the program and in
fact created mounting resistance that arguably eventually toppled the United National Party
(UNP) regime.

At the time of the second supervision mission the project had been under implementation for just
over one year. Despite this relatively short period of time, it had already achieved tangible
outcomes including; the establishment of the PUCSL, completion of the consultancies on private
participation in water, conclusion of a consultancy on establishing a real estate management
authority, the Rail Department had been converted to a Rail Authority and a major consultancy on
introducing private sector participation had also been concluded. In the energy sectors, progress
was being made on unbundling the CEB, while the CPC had successfully downsized its cadre by
more than 1,500. The project supported the sale of 1/3 of the retail outlets to Indian Oil Company
and the introduction of a pricing formula to stem the operating losses of the CPC in the face of
rapidly rising world oil prices.

The project also supported reforms in the labor, financial and bus sectors, and the government
project team remained upbeat on the reform program following the April 2004 elections. The
project director, was appointed by the President to the position of Chairman of the CEB but
demonstrated his commitment to the project by continuing to fill both roles simultaneously. At
this stage the project was going well and there was already talk of a follow-on project. Given the
level of disbursements at this early stage, the next supervision mission was requested to conduct a
mid-term review.




                                                 11

At the mid-term review in October 2004, it was noted that the change in government had
produced a hiatus that was beginning to show in disbursements. And there was still no progress
on the strategic communications component.

Within a few months, the incoming administration outlined a gradual change in economic
direction. The new strategy was still aimed at reforming the economy and improving the state-
owned enterprises but was based on a Singaporean model of government ownership and
involvement in the commanding heights of the economy. To pursue this strategy government
created three new bodies; (i) the Strategic Enterprise Management Authority (SEMA), (ii) the
National Council for Economic Development (NCED); and (iii) the National Procurement
Agency (NPA). It was expected that SEMA would play the role of holding company similar to
Temasek in Singapore. A dynamic and professional manager was appointed to head the agency
as the outfit recruited some of the best talent from the public and private sectors. IDA reacted by
pledging its support to these newly created entities through the project's challenge fund as well as
continuing support to the pre-existing areas which government was still keen on pushing forward.


2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Ineffective project monitoring: The PAD flagged ineffective project monitoring as a risk citing
the problems that had been experienced with a similar TA project for the state roads in India. In
the event the project was allocated a satisfactory supervision budget. A good local co-Task Team
Leader (TTL) and the subsequent relocation of the TTL from Washington to Colombo ensured a
close supervision of the project. On the government side, a competent team was set-up from day
one to provide oversight and leadership.



2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards

The project received an environmental category B rating. It did not trigger any of the other
safeguard policies.

Although the project was focused on providing technical assistance to government, given the
large amount of project resources that were effectively untied in the Challenge Fund, the rating
reflected the need to provide a framework for managing environmental issues that might arise
during implementation.

The task team produced a comprehensive Environmental Action Plan that outlined a process for
environmental screening of all sub-projects as well as a process for phase I and II environmental
audits. The environmental framework that accompanied the action plan was publicly disclosed
and discussed. In practice, environmentally related issues did not arise during implementation
and the framework and action plan were never used.

With hindsight it might have been more prudent to flag this as a potential issue at appraisal and
then decide during implementation how to address sub-projects that clearly had a significant
environmental impact. This had already been included as a step in the Challenge Fund process.




                                                  12

Fiduciary Compliance

The project maintained an effective rating for fiduciary compliance throughout implementation
for both procurement and financial management. The government's project implementation team
included a qualified engineer, accountant and procurement manager. The team was able to
maintain a smooth work flow and follow all the relevant guidelines. The team met all the
deadlines to deliver financial management reports as well as annual statements audited by the
Auditor-General's Office. Repeated IDA procurement audits carried out during supervision
missions found no instances of mis-procurement. However, the final audit report, due at project
closing was delayed by several months.

During the post-Tsunami period, a number of decisions had to be taken in a hurry to respond in a
timely manner to an unprecedented situation. In this case, the Country Director allowed the client
to stray from the letter of the procurement law as long as they procured inputs according to the
spirit of the law. This was a remarkable and tumultuous moment in Sri Lanka's history that
called for extraordinary measures. A few months after this period the Bank's procurement team
carried out an intensive check on the funds that had been allocated to the post-Tsunami
advertising campaign in particular. The team verified that all the disbursements had taken place
as per the files and records. The forensic accounting review again gave the procurement team a
clean bill of health which was remarkable given the circumstances surrounding the Tsunami.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The first two years of the project witnessed a rapid take-off of both the reform program and the
project disbursements. At the time, the Country Director noted that the impact of the ERTA
project could be felt all over the economy. The project supported the drafting of new legislation
such as the Electricity Reform Act, the Public Utilities Commission Act, the Petroleum Products
Act, and the Consumer Competition Act.           These draft bills were subsequently passed by
parliament and the project supported downstream activities associated with the new legislation
most notably the establishment of the PUCSL. As disbursements were running way ahead of
schedule and the project's implementation was smooth and its impact seen as high by both the
Bank and the borrower, a decision to prepare a follow-on project was taken in 2004.

A new task team was assembled led by the Private Sector Development (PSD) unit and including
members from the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) unit and other
relevant sectoral units. The team put together a long list of reform ideas and initiatives that were
being contemplated or were already moving ahead under the administration of the day.
Discussions were started with counterparts on these ideas that would form the core of such a
follow-on operation.

Early in this process, the government changed following the elections and the incoming
administration gradually started to chart a different approach to economic management. The new
administration was focused on capacity building, technical improvements and improvement of
SOEs within the context of continued state ownership. Many of the reforms that were underway
at the time that ERTA started had actually begun under yet another previous government that was
in effect returning to power. Therefore many stakeholders believed that there was bi-partisan
support for many of the on-going reforms. But within the incoming administration, the previous
reform program was felt to be benefiting businesses and the affluent at the expense of the poor
and many aspects of the reform program were eventually shelved (most notably the nascent
privatization program) although the process was very gradual.



                                                 13

At the same time Sri Lanka had been allocated $10 million from a horizontal Adaptable Program
Loan (APL) to support statistical capacity building activities. IDA was asked to alter the
composition of the new project and include the proposed statistical capacity building initiative
within a broader follow-on project.

In keeping with the new emphasis the proposed new project was to change its name from ERTA
II to Governance and Capacity Building project. It was to include measures to support public
sector governance and training. The proposed content of the project was changed many times and
the project underwent several reincarnations during the period 2004-2007. However, at the time
of writing the final project includes four components; (i) Support to Auditor General's
Department (AGD), (ii) Support to the Department of Census and Statistics (DCS), (iii) Support
to the National Procurement Agency (NPA) and (iv) Capacity building at the Ministry of Finance.
The changes are such that the proposed project cannot be considered to represent a follow-on
from the original ERTA project although it does pick up on several initiatives that were started
with financial support from ERTA.

Assessing sustainability

It is difficult to rate the sustainability of the project since it did not invest in assets in the
traditional sense. Most of the project funds were spent on consultants who supported the drafting
of new legislation, policy notes and technical reports.

Where the project supported technical issues, such as the renumbering of the telephones in
Colombo or spectrum management allocation, the reform has stuck. Where the project supported
more contentious issues such as the potential privatization of the People's Bank the gains have
been mixed.      While the privatization of the People's Bank did not take place, the project
supported a number of advisors in the state banks that have been successful in dramatically
improving the performance of the banks. They have introduced a new credit culture, improved
the asset portfolios and reduced the non-performing loans.

In other areas, reforms introduced by one government have been overturned by subsequent
administrations.    One example is the conversion of the Railways Department into a Rail
Authority.    This was seen as a first step towards increased private sector participation,
commercialization and general management improvements.              Shortly after the change of
administration, the Rail Authority was turned back into a public sector department, a move that
also witnessed the return of inefficient practices. There remains no private participation in rail
services not even in the freight sector.        Meanwhile passenger services continue to be
characterized by poor quality services that are provided below cost. Packed, slow-moving trains,
for which few people actually pay even the low, existing tariffs, remain the norm. The Rail
Department continues to represent a significant drain on the public purse, there has been no
investment in rolling stock and the number of kilometers of rail in service has been gradually
dwindling since independence.

The project established a multi-sector regulator the PUCSL. It was intended to start regulating
the water and electricity sectors and then move gradually into the petroleum, transport and other
sectors. After several years it was foreseen that if successful the PUCSL might even absorb the
Telecom Regulatory Commission (TRC) into a super regulatory body. In practice the PUCSL
was staffed with a competent technical cadre as well as an excellent set of five original
commissioners. The staff were provided with technical training and exposure within Sri Lanka
and overseas (funded by the project) and the commission itself was ready to regulate the various
sectors.


                                                14

Although solid technical and economic regulation is at the heart of a modern economy, the
incoming administration decided that the issues that the PUCSL should have regulated were too
sensitive and important to be left to the commission i.e. they did not feel sufficiently comfortable
relinquishing power in vital areas such as setting electricity tariffs.         The corresponding
unbundling of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) envisaged under the Electricity Reform Act
did not take place and therefore the PUCSL was not able to license the successor entities to the
CEB which in turn meant that the PUCSL was not able to receive a revenue stream sufficient to
cover their costs of operation. The IDA team decided to continue to fund the commission hoping
that a permanent solution to this issue would be found. In this particular case it appears that at
least in the medium-term, the PUCSL will continue to operate as some core funding is being
provided from the public sector to ensure its continued existence. Although this arrangement is
not ideal since the PUCSL is no longer an independent regulatory body, it has little impact as
long as the commission is not being called upon to regulate.

Many of the other issues that the project supported were deliberately intended to be one off
improvements or reforms that would not require on-going support or sustainability. The project
office was designed with a clear time-frame and sunset clauses to allow the project office to
disappear along with the ministry as the need for urgent reforms gradually waned and the reform
agenda was mainstreamed into government. Although the newly created Ministries of Policy
Development and Economic Reforms, that ERTA had supported, disappeared after the April 2004
election, other ministries such as the Ministry for Plan Implementation took their place.

Following the closure of the MERST, the project continued to operate for a further two years.
Most of the activities during this later period were focused on training and capacity building at
various ministries and public sector entities. In addition to this investment in human resources,
new equipment and furniture were also purchased for new agencies created after the election.
The outstanding inventory of equipment was absorbed into the regular public sector asset lists and
will be maintained from the regular budgets. The project office itself has already been disbanded
which was accomplished quickly and easily since they occupied rented office space and
employed only a handful of staff.




                                                 15

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The ERTA project was relevant to the country's priorities at the time. A new pro-reform
government had been elected and there was a window of opportunity to implement much-needed
pro-poor reforms in Sri Lanka. The team worked quickly to take advantage of this situation and
prepared the project in just under ten months from first mission to Board approval. Initially there
was strong ownership of the project and the authorities lobbied hard for the project when a new
World Bank Country Director arrived in Sri Lanka and sought feedback on the Bank's portfolio
of proposed projects. The project fully supported the CAS objectives and the Bank's strategy.

In terms of the project design, the most innovative component was the addition of a challenge
fund. The team decided that rather than spend a long time on project preparation it was better to
design only what could be foreseen for a one to two year period and then put the remainder of the
project funds into a flexible pool that could be used for reform needs that emerged during the life
of the project. Although this design proved contentious to some within the Bank, it was favored
by GOSL and accepted by IDA management.

The design proved useful since Sri Lanka is a country that is regularly exposed to various
economic and social shocks such as repeated changes of government, economic volatility,
weather patterns and natural disasters. Including a flexible design component allowed a quick
response to the Tsunami (outside of the formal reallocation of resources) and it also allowed the
incoming government to reorient the project and continue implementing a significantly different
agenda through the same funding vehicle.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project was moderately unsatisfactory in achieving its main objective of "strengthening the
government's capacity to implement its economic reform agenda". During the first half of
project implementation the project disbursed quickly and addressed the key challenges identified
in the PAD.     However the second half of project implementation witnessed a significant
slowdown and movement away from the original PDOs. An overview of progress in the key
sectors is provided below.

(i) Strengthening Capacity at MERST, PERC, the Public Interest Program Unit (PIPU) and the
Pensions Reform Unit of the Ministry of Finance. Key technical staff were seconded to these
units and ministries in the first few months of the project. The PIPU staff formed the original
cadre for the PUCSL after its creation and it continues to exist. The PUCSL currently regulates
downstream petroleum products although it is not playing the full role originally intended (see
below). PERC also continues to operate but it is now focused on restructuring rather than
privatizing smaller SOEs. Meanwhile MERST has been disbanded but the capacity created
within the ministry has been distributed to other ministries such as Plan Implementation.

(ii) Financial Sector Reforms:       Government moved quickly to privatize the SLIC.           The
transaction was successfully carried out without support from the project. However, the original
objective was achieved and the project moved quickly to support the insurance regulator, the
IBSL. There have been certain allegations made concerning the transparency of this rapid




                                                 16

privatization but since the Bank was not involved in the process and we are not privy to the
reviews it is not possible for the team to comment on the transparency or legitimacy of the sale.

The proposed sale of the People's Bank was started with a $1 million contract awarded to PwC
Indonesia. The PwC team was asked to start working offsite while leading politicians built
political support for the potential sale. In the end, only a couple of ministers supported the
motion when a bill was tabled in parliament. Most ministers shied away from tackling the reform
program in public debates and the government as a whole failed to build political support for the
program. Later administrations abandoned the privatization program. PwC billed the project for
their initial mobilization payment and received approximately 20 percent of the total contract
value. This amount was largely wasted as the work was completed offsite and was never
delivered to the client.

However, the project did support the restructuring of the People's Bank which resulted in the
introduction of a credit culture at the bank and a reduction in non-performing loans. The project
also supported the drafting of a Superannuation Fund Regulatory Bill, a new Banking Act and a
new monetary law that together strengthened the Central Bank's prudential oversight of the
banking system. These are significant reforms in their own right and have served to significantly
strengthen the Sri Lankan financial system.

Other ideas for financial sector reforms suggested during project implementation, most notably
the establishment of an asset management company were later dropped. In addition, two new
public banks the SME bank and the Lankaputra bank have been established. To date both banks
have largely failed to extend loans to the rural poor.         However, the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) has entered the market and continues to work exclusively with private sector
banks to promote Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) lending by downscaling commercial bank
activities.

(iii) Infrastructure Reforms: A similar pattern of events unfolded in the infrastructure sector. The
PAD pledged possible support to a range of infrastructure sub-sectors including; transport,
telecommunications, petroleum, power, ports, airports and urban water supply and sanitation.

      Bus Sector:        ERTA supported efforts to develop a national and provincial route
          franchising system complemented by modern bus terminal services, through the funding
          of financial advisory services for the commercialization of 13 cluster bus companies.
          Ernst and Young (E&Y) undertook the initial financial analysis. Another consultant
          recommended that the proposal be further thought through as the plan was based on
          importing hundreds of new buses to the island despite the fact that there was no shortage
          of buses in Sri Lanka. The proposal did not consider route franchising systems or ways
          of de-mobilizing the public sector and/or regulating the private sector. Consequently the
          project was not able to support the implementation of improved bus passenger transport
          but it did prevent an even worse outcome from occurring.

      Rail: In the rail sector, the project funded regulatory work including drafting a new Rail
          Sector Act as well as supporting amendments to the existing Sri Lanka Railway
          Authority Act.     The project also funded a consultancy that examined methods of
          increasing Private Sector Participation (PSP) in railways. The latter recommended: (i) a
          concession to be implemented in two years after a management contract; (ii) the capital
          and maintenance expenditure required to bring the assets to a reasonable state of repair;
          and (iii) the divestiture or commercial exploitation of land owned by the Railway
          Authority. Progress was made on these ideas until the subsequent administration decided


                                                 17

  to reverse this decision and recreate the Rail Department. The new administration also
  abandoned plans to develop a new mass light railway system to alleviate traffic
  congestion in the Greater Colombo area.

 Telecommunications: ERTA funded reforms in this sector have been viewed by many
  as the project's biggest success. The project funded initiatives on renumbering, spectrum
  management and also laid the groundwork for the introduction of new technologies such
  as Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) and contributed to the development of ideas
  to expand rural access to information communications technology (ICT).             Rapid
  assistance to fund a consultancy on renumbering resulted in the addition of an extra digit
  to the phone numbers which in turn allowed the expansion of telecommunications
  facilities throughout the island. The introduction of CDMA has resulted in complete
  coverage of telephony in the most remote rural areas.             The remainder of the
  telecommunications reform agenda to provide access to ICT to those in rural areas was
  eventually picked up and implemented through the IDA supported e-Sri Lanka
  Development Project.

 Water: The two earlier administrations followed a strategy to provide water services
  through Private Sector Participation (PSP) starting with the two pilot projects in the
  Greater Negombo area and the Kalutara to Galle coastal strip, funded initially by the
  PSIDP project and then taken over by ERTA. Consultancies by PwC and Halcrow
  started in 2003. The new administration decided to continue with the consultancies in
  order to produce the tender documents for procurement of water services since they were
  well advanced at the time of the change over. However, once completed the final step to
  invite private sector participation in the water sector was not taken. This means that
  future administrations with the desire to implement this initiative can benefit from the
  considerable resources that have been spent to date. However, at the time of writing the
  more than US$1 million that was spent on preparing these contracts has not yet resulted
  in any tangible benefit for the country.

 Urban Development: The ERTA project funded a consultancy for the creation of a Real
  Estate Asset Management Authority. This was concluded towards the end of 2003 but
  the proposals of the report have not been implemented.

 Electricity: In this sector ADB and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
  were supporting the unbundling and privatization plans. The ERTA project supported the
  restructuring efforts by funding the required acts and regulations to provide the legal
  framework for corporatization, in particular, the implementation of the Electricity
  Reforms Act and the drafting of electricity regulations (see below). In practice the CEB
  has yet to be unbundled or commercialized.

 Petroleum:      The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) made good progress in
  unbundling the corporation and divesting a third of its retail outlets to the Indian Oil
  Corporation.     The proceeds from the sale were used to settle the corporation's
  outstanding debts to state-owned banks and fund a Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme
  (VRS) for more than 1,500 staff. An automatic pricing formula was introduced in
  February 2002, which helped to stabilize the corporation's finances, following which
  ERTA support to CPC ceased. The pricing formula has since been abandoned.




                                          18

     Ports: The project supported the drafting of the Port Competition Bill. Government
         decided not to concession the Jaya Container Terminal and the port funded its own VRS
         scheme. Revenue from the port grew quickly and the government has decided to embark
         on a major expansion of the port funded by ADB.


(iv) Economic Regulation: Support to the project's regulatory objectives was spearheaded by the
PIPU.    The unit made quick progress in implementing the new regulatory framework for
infrastructure. They trained a large number of young professionals, produced several pieces of
key legislation and established the PUCSL.

The PUCSL was formally set up following the drafting of the required legislation.             The
Commissioners were selected and assumed their roles with the secretariat support of PIPU. Later
on PIPU staff were transferred to the PUCSL secretariat once a fully-fledged human resources
plan was completed. The staff of the PUC were recruited on contract and provided with extensive
training and study tours to visit regulatory institutions overseas.

Despite building this impressive capacity, at first there was some hesitancy to divest regulatory
authority to the PUC. A decision was taken to keep transport regulation authority within the
National Transport Council and the provincial councils. In late 2005, the Sri Lanka Transport
Board was reintroduced and a large number of buses from Japan were imported and the project
stopped supporting the sector.

The PUCSL Act did not cover petroleum and without the unbundling of the CEB the PUCSL had
no jurisdiction over the electricity sector. Moreover the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board (NWSDB) Act that covered the water sector was significantly delayed. This produced a
situation in which the PUCSL after being created had a significantly restricted scope of operation.
The Bank continued to fund the organization for a further two years to maintain the capacity that
had been created. In the meantime the original Commissioners that had not been paid throughout
this period left the organization.

Eventually the PUCSL was allowed to regulate downstream petroleum products. PUCSL now
receives about 1/3 of its revenues through licensing fees in this sector and the remainder from a
treasury allocation. Therefore it appears that the PUCSL has been established on a sustainable
basis and can tackle additional issues if a decision is taken to move towards independent
regulation of utilities.

(v) Strategic Communications: From the beginning, the project team realized that strategic
communications would be key to the successful implementation of such a project. The Bank
team provided close support to the communications component starting with a detailed needs
analysis, market segmentation and draft implementation plan to support the fledgling unit. The
core task team brought in additional support from the South Asia External Relations team as well
as the Bank's Development Communications unit.

A number of individuals were appointed to drive the program forward. The most prominent
individual had a background as a political campaign adviser for Mrs. Thatcher. There was some
controversy over his appointment as he was very highly paid and it was not clear that his
international experience would easily translate to the Sri Lankan context. The individual also
seemed to be providing broader support to the ruling party's campaign program rather than
focusing on supporting efforts to communicate the reform program. With the change in
administration the individual's contract was immediately terminated.


                                                   19

Following the change in administration, additional missions were fielded to support re-
establishment of the communications unit. A new team was hired and supported by the Bank.
But they too struggled to get the communications component off the ground. It was questionable
whether the team had the right skills for the task at hand but IDA staff decided to provide some
leeway in hiring the required personnel. As strategic communications are sensitive and high-
profile it was important that the government was entirely comfortable with those hired into the
unit.

Early spending plans produced by the new team were far too ambitious, and the unit was not able
to outsource work or agree on a sensible plan of action. Good Terms of Reference were
developed and subsequently refined but never implemented.

Outside of the communications unit, two websites were developed to help stakeholders track
progress of the project. One was developed by the PIPU at www.pipu.gov.lk and the other
developed by the project management unit at www.ertap.lk. Both these websites operated well
during project implementation but they are now defunct.

At the final stakeholder review of the project, observers agreed that this component did not
produce any tangible results and was the biggest disappointment for the project. They argued that
the whole communications component was vital for the project's success and indeed vital to the
survival of the reformist administration. However, they also suggested that it is impossible to
outsource such a program to an external team.         Communicating reforms credibly requires
explanation from those actually driving the implementation of the reform program  the President
(or Prime Minister) and senior ministers.        Observers felt that the major failing on the
communications side was the fact that the politicians were not willing to come forward to talk
about the reforms that were being considered or in some cases being implemented. It was felt
that the reforms were either too contentious or unpopular or both for politicians to talk about.
This led to a situation that was described by one observer as "reforms in the passive voice". Such
a situation was clearly untenable in the medium term.


(vi) The Challenge Fund: In addition to the initiatives mentioned above that were foreseen in the
PAD, the project also supported a number of unforeseen reform initiatives through the Challenge
Fund including:

     Support to Strengthen the Auditor General's Department (AGD):                    The project
         funded work on the Institutional Development Plan (IDP). The National Audit Office of
         the UK carried out a Value For Money audit on the revenue collection function of the
         Department of Inland Revenue. The project also supported capacity building initiatives at
         the AGD and the oversight committees of Parliament COPE/COPA. This work led
         directly into a much broader program of support to the AGD which was subsequently
         prepared on the basis of the findings of a Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
         (ROSC) and the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). This became
         part of a proposed Public Financial Management and Statistical Institution Building
         (PFMSIB) Project that at the time of writing was ready for negotiations.

     Support to Department of Census and Statistics (DCS): The project funded initial
         support to DCS to undertake a needs analysis. The project also funded the establishment
         of a Geographic Information System (GIS) lab and other equipment required by DCS.
         This equipment was used extensively in the post-Tsunami period for various mapping


                                                20

        and planning exercises. With additional Trust Fund support (US$99,500) this initiative
        also developed into a component of the PFMSIB project.

     Support to National Procurement Agency (NPA): The project funded support to the
        newly created NPA including the purchase of office equipment, IT equipment and
        software to establish data links to newly created procurement cells of other ministries.
        This provided the agency with an initial push towards implementing a modern national
        procurement system. Again this initiative was scaled up into a broader request which
        eventually developed into a component of the PFMSIB project.

In short the Challenge Fund provided support to a number of initiatives that were pursued under
the initial administration. It provided flexibility to fund urgent and emerging ideas of the
government of the day. When small innovative ideas developed into larger proposals that could
not be handled within the context of the Challenge Fund, the Bank was able to take these ideas
and roll them into a much larger project addressing requests for capacity building support in
various parts of the public sector.

3.3 Efficiency

The usual tools of Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, and Financial Rate of Return are
not directly applicable to a capacity building and technical assistance project. However, the
project intended to recruit capable local staff wherever possible thereby reducing the cost of
foreign consultants and increasing the sustainability and capacity building impact of the project.
This aim worked well during the early years of the project, however, a number of highly paid
foreign consultants were recruited during the second year of the project and it is not clear whether
or not they provided value for money (see below). Following the change of government their
contracts were immediately cancelled.

More than US$ 1 million was spent on an advertising campaign to support awareness of the need
for post-Tsunami rebuilding in the North and East of the country and the accompanying Post-
Tsunami Operating Mechanism (PTOMs) agreement. Despite this expenditure, the PTOMs
agreement was declared null and void by the Supreme Court and therefore the campaign was not
successful in achieving its objective of building broad support for joint use of Tsunami related
assistance.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Marginally Unsatisfactory.

The original project development objectives (PDOs) were relevant to Sri Lanka at the time of the
project effectiveness and continue to be important today. The project achieved many of the
important milestones including; strengthening capacity at the newly created ministries and
agencies (MERST, DCS, AGD, NPA, PIPU and PUCSL). During this time the SLIC was
privatized and the project supported the commercialization and restructuring of the People's Bank
even though the bank was not privatized.

In other areas such as improved economic regulation the project was able to put in place the
technocratic requirements for improved regulation but a decision was made not to go through
with the original plans for liberalization. Improvements in the telecom sector such as introducing



                                                21

a new numbering system, spectrum management etc. helped to boost the sector greatly.
Unfortunately progress in other infrastructure sectors was not as impressive and the little progress
that was made in many areas was later reversed. Finally the strategic communications component
did not manage to make an impact.

Given this overall assessment the Bank team rated the project as Marginally Unsatisfactory
during supervision.     However, project counterparts and stakeholders gave it a Marginally
Satisfactory rating at the stakeholder review session (see below).


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Shortly after the Tsunami struck the coast of Sri Lanka, the Bank received several requests to
support short-term, Tsunami relief.      Prior to the establishment of the Tsunami Emergency
Recovery Project (TERP), the ERTA project proved to be a useful and flexible source of financial
support for the Tsunami. On March 21, 2005, the project approved an immediate release to
TAFREN (the Task Force for Rebuilding the Nation) of US$250,000 to support its
communications budget. Given the emergency situation, the Bank agreed to waive procurement
procedures for expenses that had already been undertaken in the immediate weeks after the
Tsunami, agreeing to reimburse items that had been procured according to the "spirit of the
Bank's procurement guidelines".

Later on April 28, 2005, the project received a request to release immediately an amount of US$1
million to cover payments already incurred by TAFREN and SEMA (the Strategic Enterprise
Management Unit). The Country Director approved both requests. A forensic audit carried out
by the procurement unit later confirmed that all expenditure had been incurred within the spirit of
the Bank guidelines.



3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A stakeholder workshop was conducted on September 20, 2007 at the World Bank office in
Colombo. The minutes of the meeting are presented in Annex 6 and a short summary appears
below.

Overall the stakeholders rated the project outcomes as marginally satisfactory. They pointed to
the success of the project in strengthening various public sector agencies and in starting capacity
building initiatives at AGD, DCS and NPA that later formed the core of another IDA supported
project. However, observers also noted that the infrastructure reforms with the exception of the
telecom sector were moderately unsatisfactory.

Results in the financial and regulatory sectors were mixed with some gains notably the
improvement of the state owned banks and establishment of regulatory capacity at the PUCSL.
These gains fell short of the original goals to privatize the banks and establish an independent
economic regulation of the key infrastructure sectors.

The strategic communications component was felt to be the weakest. Some members of the
group felt that it was impossible to outsource the whole communications program to an external



                                                22

team. They felt that the only thing that would have supported the reform program would have
been the ministers coming out in public and explaining to the people what the reforms were
expected to achieve.

The stakeholders felt that the Bank should have put more effort into a better design of this
component. They also felt that the Bank lacked an exit strategy and the project continued long
after the original developed objectives were no longer being met. It was felt that flexibility in
funding (provided for through the Challenge Fund) must also be accompanied by a strict policy
framework and guidelines to ensure that the funds are spent to support an explicit development
strategy.



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial. The project was originally not aimed at long term sustainability. It was
expected to have a short lifetime to support one-time economic reforms that would then have an
immediate and continued impact on the intended project beneficiaries. The project was also
designed to support reforms that would be difficult if not impossible to roll back e.g. the
privatization of SOEs. In practice the project did not manage to achieve these all these ambitious
development objectives. However, the project was never designed with the expectation that it
would succeed in each and every area. It was always intended to support progress in a number of
areas some of which would make more progress than others. In many areas, the project has
supported some useful steps towards the general direction of the original PDOs.

The risk to development outcomes is largely a result of the general political climate and level of
political commitment to the originally envisaged reform program. Given that the project was
effectively oriented to alternative objectives during the last two years of implementation it is
likely that the unraveling of PDOs that the project experienced during implementation has now
reached a steady state. Therefore the risk of further roll backs is not considered high. An
assessment of the risk to PDOs by the major project areas is provided below.

    (i)      Strengthening Capacity: The project succeeded in building a technical cadre within
             MERST. The individuals have now been spread throughout the public sector and
             agencies such as SEMA and PERC. Their augmented skills are being used in key
             technical areas and the public sector appears to value their inputs. The main risk to
             this capacity will come from the general incentives within the civil service and
             whether the public sector will be able to maintain certain enclaves of excellence
             within the overall civil service. To date, SEMA, PERC and the PUCSL all appear to
             be staffed with good technical staff and all three organizations continue to play an
             important role within the current administrative set-up.

    (ii)     Pre-allocated Consulting Technical Assistance:        In terms of the infrastructure
             outcomes, it is clear that the telecom reforms have stuck. They are accepted by a
             broad range of the public as well as by all political parties. There are some dangers
             of regulatory capture but even should they materialize the gains in the sector will not
             be entirely jeopardized. The major reforms in the petroleum sector, (e.g. the sale of
             the retail outlets to the Indian Oil Company) will not be rolled back easily, however,
             some of the other tactical gains such as the reduction in staffing levels are likely to be
             further eroded.




                                                  23

            The reforms in the electricity sector, especially the passing of the Electricity Reform
            Act is unlikely to be repealed. On the other hand the legislation to allow the PUCSL
            to start regulating the current entities is equally unlikely to be re-drafted. For the
            medium term, it appears that the electricity sector is at a stalemate and the sector
            structure and regulatory status will be maintained for a number of years while efforts
            are simultaneously ongoing to increase electricity supply. In the water sector, the
            drafting and completion of the concession agreements means that a future
            government could easily proceed with the introduction of private sector participation
            in that sector. Although the longer that this does not happen, the more out of date the
            agreements will become and the more work will be needed to update them.

            The risk to reforms in the financial sector is more significant. There are already
            some indications that the state owned banks are reverting to their pre-reform
            performance levels.     The creation of additional state owned banks indicates a
            commitment to continue intervening in the financial sector. Repeated write-offs of
            farmer debts owed to the public sector have also undermined the establishment of a
            sound credit culture in rural areas.

            The major transport sector reforms especially in the rail and bus sectors had already
            come to an end before the project closure. The project did not manage to achieve its
            objectives in this area and the reversal of earlier achievements had already taken
            place by the time of this evaluation.

    (iii)   Mass Communications Strategy: Since this component did not manage to produce
            any tangible benefits there is no risk to development outcomes.           In fact, this
            component performed so poorly that both government and the Bank teams have
            learned a great deal from the experience and if anything are likely to design much
            improved communications strategies to accompany future projects and government
            initiatives.

    (iv)    Challenge Fund: The other organizations supported by the project such as AGD,
            NPA and DCS have now been brought within the remit of a proposed Bank
            supported PFMSIB project. If the project goes forward it is likely that capacity at
            these organizations will get significantly stronger.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.    The project team was put together very quickly and responded to
requirements carefully. The project was prepared in only ten months from first mission to Board
approval at a time when the average project preparation time in Sri Lanka was more than three
years.

Once effective, the project began to disburse quickly confirming that the preparation team had
done a good job and that government was ready and committed to the project. The Country
Director changed during the middle of project preparation but the Bank team and government
persuaded the incoming Director to support the new operation.



                                                24

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The project scope was very broad. The project attempted to
cover reforms in infrastructure, energy, public sector, urban development, land and labor markets,
the financial sector and SOE reform. This required a flexible and multi-sectoral team that worked
outside of the regular Bank silos. Although the supervision budget was limited, the task team was
able to draw on the resources of other teams that already had an ongoing dialogue and agreed
reform agenda. The Bank was able to field a number of teams with specific sectoral expertise as
requested. The joint leadership of the project from the PSD and PREM units also allowed quality
control and an ability to put the sectoral reforms within a broader political economy perspective.

The teams proved flexible in reorienting the project following the change of government. The
Bank's fiduciary reviews were solid and were helped by the fact that the government team was
familiar with Bank guidelines and did an excellent job in following the relevant procedures.
Following the change in administration the new government slowly drifted away from the
original reform agenda but this process was not clear initially. Following the December 2004
Tsunami all government and donor priorities changed overnight. Economic reform took a firm
back seat to the more pressing needs of relief and rehabilitation. This process lasted throughout
much of 2005. At the beginning of 2006, it was becoming clearer that commitment both to the
reforms and to the project were beginning to wane. The task team suggested that the project be
wound down once the ongoing activities were completed. However, government did not want to
lose the funding and requested that the remaining balance be used to support Tsunami housing.
In order for the reallocation to take place, the project had to remain open while Bank staff
effected the reallocation. This process took approximately 12 months to complete following
which the project was closed one year earlier than the original closing date at appraisal.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The team moved quickly to put in
place an operation that was both responsive to government's wishes and completely in line with
the CAS for Sri Lanka. A multisectoral team was put together to deal with a variety of issues.
There was a lot of continuity in the team throughout the project. The TTL who prepared the
project lead the project supervision through to closure.

The project was co-led from the PSD and PREM units. This provided a consensual approach on
economic reform, competitiveness and growth issues. It also provided for field presence as well
as a Washington anchor. The move of the TTL to the field in the later part of the project also
helped maintain a close link with the client.

The Bank provided funding at the preparatory stage with a PPF that was prepared quickly and
provided the resources needed to establish a high-performing project unit that in turn kick-started
the project activities.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. Although the project started off with strong ownership from
government and a good implementing agency the repeated changes in government resulted in at
first a hiatus in implementation and then a turn away from the original PDOs. No administration
requested a project restructuring and IDA did not suggest one. In the later years, government
distanced itself from the project while seeking to utilize the project resources to support public



                                                 25

sector capacity building and support to the Tsunami both of which are valid developmental
objectives but neither of which were reflected in the project documentation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. An experienced team was put in place using the PPF. The team included
the required skills necessary to implement the project. During the project implementation, the
team complied with all the Bank fiduciary and project oversight requirements successfully
procuring more than one hundred consultancies. However, towards the end of the project the
implementing unit was disbanded and the final audit report was consequently delayed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project did not achieve its original PDOs largely due to
policy changes which reflected a changed political reality on the ground. The project did achieve
some significant milestones but failed to deliver on all or a majority of its declared PDOs.


6. Lessons Learned

The ERTA Project provided multi-sectoral support to Sri Lanka's economic reform program.
The project did several things differently from most Bank projects that helped it to become
successful including:

     Ownership: The project team took client ownership very seriously, making a real effort
        to listen to officials and stakeholders and tailoring the project to their needs. In all areas,
        Sri Lankans called the shots and sought Bank technical advice only when necessary.

     Challenge Fund:           The project incorporated an unallocated pool of resources, the
        "Challenge Fund". Although initially received with a healthy degree of skepticism, the
        Challenge Fund has provided space for successive administrations to alter the course of
        the reforms and still be able to benefit from Bank funding without having to design a new
        project. It has also helped the Bank respond almost immediately with post-Tsunami
        assistance.

     Service delivery: Realising that each administration has a small window of opportunity
        to push reform initiatives, the Bank committed to a quick turnaround on all TA requests
        and after initial teething problems was able to come to a two to three day turnaround for
        all requests.

     Strong project management capability:                 Establishing capacity to handle the
        procurement and management of more than 100 consultancies in the first two years of
        operation was critical to success. It also meant that line ministries could focus on
        management of the reform and leave the administrative aspects to others.

Within this context the project achievements included:

 (i)     Major changes to the legislative framework to allow for greater private sector
         participation in infrastructure (e.g., Electricity Reform Act, Petroleum Products Act,
         Petroleum Regulations, Public Utilities Commission Act);




                                                 26

 (ii)   Establishment of the multi-sector regulator including the Commission and secretariat,
        and provision of regional and international training to key staff members;

 (iii)  Preparation of bidding documents for private sector participation in water (although the
        transaction has not gone ahead);

 (iv)   Funding management positions in the People's Bank and hiring consultants to privatize
        the bank (again the transaction did not go ahead);

 (v)    Providing rapid and flexible support to TAFREN for emergency tsunami-related
        activities;

 (vi)   Providing support to many smaller pieces of important work such as urban land
        management reforms, Samurdhi welfare reforms, poverty-mapping and GIS equipment
        for the DCS, support to needs assessment at DCS, support to prepare an institutional
        development plan for the AGD, and supporting training for roughly 50 civil servants in
        key reform areas.

Despite all these achievements, the project also suffered a series of setbacks, including:

 (i)    Inability to get the strategic communications unit up and running.

 (ii)   The cluster bus privatization was stopped by court action, however, the technical advice
        funded by the Bank was sound and avoided a much worse outcome;

 (iii)  The People's Bank privatization was stopped following a change in administration and
        the consultants received and retained their initial payment of 20 percent of the contract
        value;

 (iv)   Pension reforms have been mired in delays and lengthy analysis, and the program has
        yet to produce tangible results despite the consulting contracts and secretarial support
        provided to the reform unit;

 (v)    The rail reforms achieved included the change in legislation and transformation of the
        Department of Railways into an independent Rail Authority. This progress was later
        reversed as the Authority was turned back into a Department and all private sector
        participation put on hold; and

 (vi)   The project hired long term international advisers on vague terms of reference. They
        proved expensive and ineffective and their contracts were quickly terminated.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
To be summarized once government submits its own report.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
See Annex 6.



                                                27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

1. STRENGTHENING
GOVERNMENT CAPACITY                   1.00               0.98                98
2. CONSULTING TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                            5.00               3.15                63
3. STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS                        1.00               0.21                21
4. CHALLENGE FUND                     8.00               5.01                63
 PART Z REALLOCATION                  0.00               7.38               N/A


            Total Baseline Cost      15.00               16.73              112
Physical Contingencies                0.00               0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00               0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs     15.00               16.73              112




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds          Type of Co-    Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                    financing      (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            3.75          2.00         53
International Development
Association (IDA)                                  15.00         16.73         112




                                          28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Consultants for the Ministry of Policy Development and Implementation  Regaining Sri
Lanka document.

Conference on transforming public sector Banks.

Support to People's Bank restructuring plan

Road map to implement the Center for National Economic Communications (CNEC)
Communication Plan 2005

Labor market information system

Amendments to the Electricity Reform Act and the CEB Act

Consultancy to support report of the committee on power sector reforms

Support to Implementing the "Proposed Joint Mechanism Educational Campaign"
through Task Force for Rebuilding the National TAFREN.

Established and funded NCED

Support to SEMA to conduct Business Plans for Strategic Enterprises Under SEMA.

Funded Project to Develop Capabilities of Members of Parliament to Strengthen the
Democratic System in Sri Lanka.

Funded distance workshop on alternatives to privatization.

Workshop on Managing State Owned Enterprises: Global Experience.

Equipment to National Procurement Agency.

Consultancy on Financial Management of the CEB

Training at the Auditor General's Department

Consultancy to develop an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) for the Auditor
General's Department.

Consultancy on Labor standards and employment relations for Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka.




                                          29

Consultancy on Colombo Port Efficiency and Expansion Project for Ministry of Ports and
Aviation.

Consultancy to draft An Act to Amend the Petroleum Products Act No. 33 or 2002.

Support to PUCSL including training and recurrent costs.

Consultancy to review welfare (Samhurdhi) reforms including financial specialist, IT
specialist and survey specialists.

Feasibility study for providing a special railway service to the Bandaranaike International
Airport

Funded executive training program on governance, leadership and management.

Consultancy Services on Compensation Reforms and Salary System Integration through
National Council for Administration (NCA).




                                              30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable.




                                    31

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                Names                                  Title                Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Ismail Radwan                           Sr. Private Sector Dev. Spec.      SASFP Task Team Leader
Cresenta Fernando (deceased)            Economist                          SASPR Co-TTL
Naresha Duraiswamy                      Sr. Operations Officer             SASFP Institutional Dev.
Sriyani Hulugalle                       Sr. Economist                      SASFP Financial Sector
Deepal Fernando                         Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS Procurement
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe               Financial Management Specialist    SARFM Financial Mgt.
Pradeep Perera                          Infrastructure Specialist          SASDN Infrastructure reforms
Clive Harris                            Lead Infrastructure Specialist     SASDN Infrastructure reforms
Julie Fraser                            Sr. Infrastructure Specialist      SASDN Infrastructure reforms
Vikram Raghavan                         Sr. Counsel                        LEGES Legal
Dale Lautenbach                         Manager EXT                        SAREX Communications
Jose Manuel Bassat                      Senior Communications Officer      EXTCD Communications
Zita Lichtenberg                        Communications Analyst             SAREX Communications
Santhanam Krishnan                      Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS Procurement
Kenneth Miller                          Disbursement Specialist             LOA  Disbursement
Julitta Rasiah                          Financial Management Specialist    SACSL Financial Mgt.
Sumith Pilaypitiya                      Lead Environmental Specialist      SASDN Environment
Krishantha Kumarasinghe                 Consultant                         SASFP Financial Sector
Mary Agnes Evidente                     Program Assistant                  SASFP Program Assistance
Kerima Thilakasena                      Program Assistant                  SACSL Program Assistance
Supervision/ICR
Simon C. Bell                           Sector Manager                     SASPF Management
Ismail Radwan                           Sr. Private Sector Dev. Spec.      SASPF Task Team Leader
Cresenta Fernando (deceased)            Economist                          SASPR Co- TTL
Esperanza Lasagabaster                  Senior Economist                   SASPF Pensions Reforms
Kiatchai Sophastienphong                Senior Financial Sector Spec.      SASPF Banking Reforms
Lohita Karunasekera                     Consultant                         SASPF Capacity Building
Sashi Jeyaraj                           Team Assistant                     SASPF Program Assistance
Kadija Jama                             Team Assistant                     SASPF Program Assistance


(b) Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                               No. of staff weeks USD Thousands* No. of staff weeks USD Thousands*
                                                Lending                         Supervision
   FY02                                                             45.74
   FY03                                                            135.99                           43.64
   FY04                                                                                            112.19
   FY05                                                                                             86.20
   FY06                                                                                             57.28
   FY07                                                                                             69.53
   FY08                                                                                             30.10
   Total                                                           178.18                          398.94
*(including travel and consultant costs)




                                                           32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                    33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

          Minutes of the stakeholder meeting held on 20th September 2007 at 14:00
                             at the World Bank Colombo Office 


Present: Mr. Luxman Siriwardne (Executive Director, Pathfounder Foundation), Mr. Yohan
Bandaranayke (Director SEMA), Mr. Harinath Malathirag (Assistant Accountant SEMA), Mr.
Leel Wickremarachchi (MD VPEL), Mr. Ranjit Siriratne (Financial Manager), Mr. A.
Sooriyagoda (Director ERD), Mr. Ananda Gunasekera (ex-Project Director ERTA), Prof.
Priyantha Wijetunga (Director-General PUCSL), Prof. Rohan Samarajeeva (Executive Director
Lirneasia), Mr. Ismail Radwan (Task Leader World Bank), and Mr. Lohita Karunasekera
(Economist World Bank).

Apologies: Prof. Amal Kumarage (Moratuwa University), Mrs. Wasantha Perera (Director ERD),
Mrs. Sujatha Cooray (Director General ERD), Ms. Johanna Boestel (Economist ADB), Mr.
Chamath Goonewardena (PUCSL), Mr. K.A.S. Gunasekera (Chairman PUCSL), Mr. Dhammika
Hewapathirana (ex-head communications unit), Mr. Derek Kelley (ex-CEO People's Bank), Mr.
Sumanasekera      (ex-procurement    manager     ERTA),      Mr.  Upali    Tennekoon     (ex-head
communications strategy), Ms. Anila De Soysa (ex-PERC).

1. Objective of the meeting

A stakeholder meeting comprising the project implementation team, stakeholders, beneficiaries
and other relevant parties was held to gauge the success of the project in terms of its outputs/
outcomes. The exercise also proved valuable to gather information to facilitate the project
implementation completion process and inform future Bank operations.

2. The following observations were made by the participants.

Success as per the PDOs. - The participants agreed that the project was dependent on economic
reforms and performed well as long as the broader economic reforms were progressing. When
the government changed so did the reform agenda and the project could not continue to perform.
Some participants were of the opinion that due to the nature of the reforms and its scope, the
achievements were modest. Some of the objectives were contingent upon the adoption of other
reforms and specific support from the government machinery established to carry out the
mandated reforms, the Ministry of Economic Reforms, Science and Technology (MERST). The
consensus view of the stakeholders on each component is presented below.

(1) Strengthening government capacity: The stakeholders were satisfied with the outcome as
far as the establishment of the agencies /committees are concerned. Although the main
implementing ministry (MERST) was later disbanded the project supported successful capacity
building initiatives at DCS, AGD and NPA.

(2) Infrastructure: Stakeholders felt that in this sector outcomes were largely unsatisfactory. In
the following areas; CEB, rail, bus, and water the project managed to create small improvements
that were later repealed and a few years after the project started it could not point to any




                                                34

observable lasting reforms in these areas. However, telecom reforms were considered the most
successful of all and reforms at the CPC as having a marginal impact.

(3) Financial Sector: In the financial sector the group felt that there had not been much progress
on reforms in the two main state banks, Peoples Bank and the Bank of Ceylon (BOC). Despite
the general lack of major reforms it was noted that both banks have strengthened their financial
positions. The insurance sector has been reformed and is better positioned for future growth with
the privatization of two major state owned insurance companies.

(4) Improved regulation: The group felt that although a lot of progress had been made with the
successor to PIPU, the PUCSL established. However, it has only registered a marginal impact in
some areas like petroleum regulation. Overall it was agreed that the commission is not fully
effective at the moment.

(5) Strategic communication: This area was considered the most critical and the most
ineffective by all participants. It was noted that there was no consensus within the party on some
critical reforms and therefore it was difficult for politicians to communicate the reform program.
It was claimed that there were only 1 or 2 real reformers in government and they made little or no
attempt to co-opt other policy-makers. In the absence of enough policy dialogue the government
decided instead to commit to reforms through stealth.

On a consensus basis the group gave the project a marginally satisfactory rating overall and gave
a satisfactory rating for the government team.


Project Strengths

Telecom sector reforms have contributed to the development of the sector. The group felt
that this could be cited as the main success story of the project. The project supported the opening
of the internal gateway and greatly improved spectrum management. The introduction of CDMA
technology that in turn managed to spread landlines into the most remote rural areas was given as
an example of what the project has achieved in this area.

Disbursement was rated as good with the project not reporting any issues on that area. The
government's project team reported that the project started disbursing quickly. When project
activities slowed down the disbursement figures were boosted by support to post-Tsunami
activities and the project effectively closed one year before the projected closure date as all the
project funds had been depleted.

PUCSL has had a positive contribution though it has not managed to achieve what we
expected at the outset. The PUCSL is being used in limited cases as a fall-back option for policy
advice in certain areas, according to some stakeholders. It was pointed out the commission has
become the shadow policy advisory body for the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC). The
establishment of the PUCSL has also resulted in internal capacity building within the public
sector. It was also noted that many of the young staff of the agency that had been trained and
mentored had also moved into the private sector.

Establishment of the National Procurement Agency (NPA)  The National Procurement
Agency is currently functioning and all government procurement goes through the agency. The
agency capacity was strengthened by financing from the project challenge funds. The group felt
that the NPA was doing a good job in transparent procurement especially in sensitive areas like


                                                 35

power procurement. However, others noted that the NPA was being deliberately being kept out
of other strategic procurements that might not be as transparent.

Strategic Enterprise Management Agency (SEMA)  Contributions were made in terms of
supporting SOEs to develop their business plans in a more coherent and integrated fashion. But
opinion was divided as to its effect with some expressing reservations and a small minority
reporting that SEMA provided no value-added. An example given of SEMA's achievements was
the initiative to introduce a debit card for fuel for public sector vehicles operating under the
government's fuel allowance system. This has allowed government to accurately monitor fuel
usage, negotiate rebates and budget across government units. However, it was noted that SEMA
has no teeth and can only work through cooperation. Both the CEB and CTB had successfully
resisted SEMA inspired reforms.

Trade Reforms  It was noted that the Common Partnership Agreement (CPA) with India that
was supported by the project led to airlines competing and significantly opening up trade with
India. This initiative resulted in among other things; an increase in the number of daily flights to
India to more than 30, an elimination of the requirement for visas for Indian visitors to Sri Lanka.
The latter resulted in Indians becoming the biggest group of visitors to Sri Lanka from 2005.

Project Weaknesses

The scope of the PDOs was too ambitious. Given the nature of the reforms and its scope with
many sectors involved, it was agreed that the outcomes expected were too ambitious. It was also
noted that the scope of the original project responded to government demands and was not
imposed by the Bank team. The Bank team's idea to back several areas hoping that some would
be successful was considered impractical.

The success of the project was determined to a great extent by the existing government
infrastructure and support structure at the policy level. The project was aligned towards a
narrow window of implementation where success was contingent upon the decisions and
existence of very few individuals from the government side. The group felt that under the
previous administration, policy emanated from an "ivory tower" with no line ministry direction or
consultation, which resulted in no active support and in some cases willful resistance and
misdirection. It was also pointed out that implementation was also hampered by internal political
clashes between personalities. Some felt that the government did not do enough to bring line
ministers on board with the proposed changes in their respective sectors. Others felt that an
ambitious reform program requires a strong government (e.g. Thatcher's government in the
1980s).    Such governments are not possible within the context of the current Sri Lankan
constitution as the majority parties require the support of smaller parties to remain in power.

The Strategic Communications component was one of the main weaknesses. It was pointed
out by all participants that the communication of the reforms to the general public was ineffective.
Some felt that the communications component had hired the wrong people while others in the
group felt that it was impossible to outsource the whole communications program. It was clear
that hiring English speakers meant that they would not be able to communicate with 90% of the
population. While foreigners might not be conversant with Sri Lankan culture. They felt that the
only thing that would have supported the reform program would have been the ministers coming
out in public and explaining to the people what the reforms were expected to achieve.

The project lacked a clear exit strategy or pragmatic restructuring process - After the
change of government, and with it the drive for reforms, many felt that the project should have


                                                  36

been restructured. An exit strategy was not in place. The TTL explained that although this is
clear with hindsight that it was not clear at the time. When the government changed, the
incoming administration had not clearly signaled a break from the past and initially appeared to
be positively behind the reform agenda. The lack of political interest and change in policy
direction took place incrementally and by the time that it was apparent that the government was
no longer interested in reforms the project had all but run out of steam.

Steering committee was not up to expectations in performance and inputs. Many were of the
opinioned that during implementation there were significant changes to the steering committee
especially following the change of government. This affected the smooth functioning and clarity
in direction of the reform process. It was also pointed out that the steering committee was weak
and had no clear direction during some of the implementation period. It was felt that the Bank
could have acted in a firmer manner insisting on the functioning of the committee and protecting
the project's independence and consensual approach to reforms.


Learning outcomes

A long term, sustainable and effective communication strategy is a key before, during and after
undertaking reforms of this nature. More effort should have gone into thinking this out on both
the government and Bank side before the project became effective. Only one or two politicians
including the Prime-Minister and the Minister of Economic Reforms actually spoke out in
support of the reform program. In areas where they spoke out to support the reform agenda e.g.
petroleum sector, the program went ahead. In other areas lack of explicit government support led
to repeated challenges in the courts and eventual rolling back of the agenda e.g. water sector.
Some observers thought that given the lack of political consensus, the team should have oriented
the communications component inward rather than outward. It was the politicians rather than the
public that needed convincing.

Others noted that the project team should have thought more seriously about ways of generating
dialogue at the grass roots levels. Ways of creating real debates in the villages to improve
accountability and transparency.

The sustainability of the project should be of utmost importance and the need for a clear exit
strategy was also highlighted. It was noted that the sentiments surrounding the reform program,
economic growth and also the peace agenda have shifted very rapidly and that the Bank was not
able to shift its support to match.

Flexibility in creating funds for allocation and reallocation is important but a very strict policy
framework and guidelines are vitally necessary to avoid the potential misuse and/or abuse of
funds and to avoid capture by vested interests. Observers felt that the Bank could have insisted
more strongly on eligibility criteria and a framework for operation.


Other issues raised during the meeting

Observers questioned the creation of a number of new agencies and outfits during the
implementation period which the Bank supported. For example SEMA was created even though
PERC already had similar mandate.           However, others felt that SEMA was charged with
improving the performance of the SOEs while PERC was mandated to privatize them and it was



                                                 37

important, for political reasons, not to be associated with privatizations which had a strongly
negative profile.

Questions were raised as to why the funds were reallocated for Tsunami relief so quickly. Others
questioned why the Bank did not call for a suspension or cancellation of the project funds as the
reforms slowed down and some of the earlier reforms were rolled back.

A member of the audience asked why the Bank had not designed a separate component or stand
alone project to support the PUCSL. The TTL explained that the project was a government
project that the Bank supported and the Bank did not receive such a request to prepare a separate
component.

Participants that had worked with the GOSL project team were full of praise for their pro-active
attitudes and their ability to achieve quick turnarounds and credible accounting. It was also noted
that the pragmatic country director had also intervened several times to break deadlocks.




                                                 38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Government of Sri Lanka declined to comment on the ICR. Members of government
attended the stakeholder workshop summarized in Annex 6.




                                         39

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    40

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document

Development Credit Agreement

Supervision Aide-mmoires

Implementation Status Reports

Borrower's Completion Report

ERTA Audited Annual Reports

Tsunami Emergency Reconstruction Credit Project Appraisal Document

Department of Census and Statistics Needs Analysis

Auditor General's Department: Institutional Development Plan

Communication Strategy Needs Analysis and Strategic Plan




                                          41

MAP




       42

