CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 731-BU
Project Agreement
(BNDE Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIQUE
Dated September 30, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 731-BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1977 between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIQUE (hereinafter called
BNDE), a limited liability company (s.a.r.l.) established and
operating under the laws of the Republic of Burundi (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million four hundred thousand
dollars ($3,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BNDE
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BNDE, the equivalent of $3,000,000 out of
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to BNDE on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BNDE, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE J2
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of BNDE
Section 2.01. BNDE shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct its


﻿-2-
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and personnel and in accordance with its Statutes and Statement
of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, BNDE shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for
authorization of withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, BNDE
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satis-
factory to the Association, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and (ii) an appraisal of the Investment
Project to be financed under such Sub-loan or Investment. Said
appraisal shall include a description of the expenditures for such
Investment Project proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit; the calculation, in accordance with methods satis-
factory to the Association, of the internal financial rate of
return of the Investment Project and, in the case of import sub-
stitution Investment Projects, of its economic rate of return; the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of
repayment to the Borrower of the amount to be used for the Invest-
ment; and such other information as the Association shall request.
(c) Each request by BNDE for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project to be financed under such
free-limit Sub-loan (including a description of the expenditures
for such Investment Project proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-
limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule or schedule of repayment
applicable to each Investment Project shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and
BNDE shall otherwise agree, shall not extend beyond fifteen years
from the date of approval by the Association of such Investment
Project or, in the case of a free-limit Sub-loan, from the date
of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account in respect of such Investment Project, and shall


﻿-3-
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and BNDE shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be submitted to the
Association on or before September 30, 1979.
Section 2.03. (a) BNDE undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
which shall include interest at a rate of not less than nine per
cent (9%) per annum on the outstanding balance of the sub-loan,
and a commission at the rate of one per cent per annum payable
to the Borrower through BNDE, on account of the exchange risk to
be borne by the Borrower on the proceeds of the Credit utilized to
finance such Sub-loan.
(b) BNDE undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms
whereby BNDE shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association and BNDE, including, in
the case of any Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be
appropriate in the case of any Investment, the right of BNDE to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and
services be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Association if the Association shall so


﻿request, such goods and the sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance covers hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Association or
BNDE shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-
loan or Investment upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with BNDE.
Section 2.04. BNDE shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and BNDE; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. BNDE shall submit to the Association, for its
prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by
BNDE in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.06. BNDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of BNDE by the Borrower or its agencies
or others for relending, investment or management. BNDE shall
promptly inform the Association of any action which would have


﻿- 5 -
the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of any such agreement.
Section 2.07. BNDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BNDE shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) BNDE shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the
Sub-loans and the Investments.
(b) BNDE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(c) BNDE shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BNDE of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BNDE (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer, encumber or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.10. (a) BNDE shall adopt a Statement of Policy
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Any subtantial amendment to the Statutes or the State-
ment of Policy shall be made only by prior agreement between the
Association and BNDE.
Section 2.11. (a) BNDE shall establish and maintain a special
unit responsible for promoting, appraising and following up


﻿- 6 -
industrial projects and shall assign qualified staff in adequate
numbers to such unit.
(b) BNDE shall employ for three years two experts to fulfill
the functions of engineer, industrial economist and financial
analyst, with qualifications, experience and under terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association, to
assist BNDE in setting up, and to work in, the unit referred to in
paragraph (a) above, and in training local staff.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNDE shall maintain records adequate to reflect
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operation and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BNDE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles ccnsistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (a) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (b)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BNDE and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BNDE shall
otherwise agree, BNDE shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings having an original
term exceeding one year.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and BNDE shall
otherwise agree, BNDE shall not incur or permit any subsidiary
to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the
consolidated debt of BNDE and all its subsidiaries then incurred


﻿-7-
and outstanding would at any time after June 30, 1978 be greater
than four times the consolidated capital and reserves of BNDE and
all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BNDE or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by BNDE or by a subsidiary but excluding the debt guaranteed by
the Borrower pursuant to Ordonnance Ministfrielle No. 540/46 of
March 24, 1975 as supplemented by Ordonnance Minist6rielle No.
540/105 of May 20, 1977 and any other debt covered by similar
guarantees.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section-to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement, on the date and
to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Burundi Francs debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Burundi for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BNDE and all its sub-
sidiaries" means the aggregate of the total amount of debt of BNDE
and of a proportion of the debt of each of its subsidiaries equal
to the ratio of the participation of BNDE in the share capital of
such subsidiary, excluding any debt owed by BNDE to any susidiary
or by any subsidiary to BNDE or to any other subsidiary.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and reserves of BNDE and
all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total unimpaired
paid-in capital and free reserves of BNDE and of a proportion of
the unimpaired paid-in capital and free reserves of each of its
subsidiaries equal to the ratio of BNDE's participation in the
share capital of such subsidiary, after excluding therefrom
such amounts as shall represent equity interest of BNDE in any
subsidiary, or of any such subsidiary in BNDE or in any other
subsidiary.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. BNDE shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Burundi Francs) used in its operations.
Section 3.06. When the debt-equity ratio of BNDE defined in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement reaches 3.5:1, BNDE shall take all
action required on its part to increase its authorized and paid-in
capital by such amounts as shall be necessary to maintain such
ratio within the limit specified in Section 3.04.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BNP7 thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 18 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BNDE
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿-9-
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is raquired
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United. States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BNDE:
Banque Nationale de Ddveloppement
Economique
Botte Postale 1620
Bujumbura
R6publique du Burundi
Cable address:
DEVBANK
Bujumbura
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BNDE may be taken or executed by the
President of BNDE or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BNDE shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BNDE,
take any action or execute any document required or permitted to
be taken or executed by BNDE pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement or of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIQUE
By Is/ B. Kamwenubusa
Authorized Representative


