CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 73] BU
Development Credit Agreement
(BNDE Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 30, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 731 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1977, between the REPUBLIC OF
BURUNDI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Banque Nationale
de D6veloppement Economigue (hereinafter called BNDE), a company
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower,-with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to BNDE the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and BNDE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BNDE of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿U
-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNDE pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by BNDE in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to BNDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project, and "free-limit
Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (d)
of this Agreement;
(d) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by BNDE in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to BNDE under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BNDE proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or hds made an Investment;
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment;
(g) "Burundi Franc" means the currency of the Borrower; and
"foreign currency" means any other currency;
(h) "Statutes" means the Acte Constitutif of BNDE published
in the Official Bulletin of Burundi No. 4/67 of April 1, 1976 as
modified to date;
(i) "Statement of Policy" means the statement to be approved
by the Board of Directors of BNDE pursuant to Section 2.10 (a) of
the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the voting stock is owned or effectively controlled by BNDE or
by any one or more subsidiaries of BNDE or by BNDE and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Developzent Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to three million four hundred thousand dollars ($3,400,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates BNDE as its representa-
tive for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisicas of Section 2.03 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) The proceeds of the Credit made available
to BNDE pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) and (c) hereof may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account by BNDE, acting on behalf of the
Borrower, as follows:
(i) subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) through
(e) of this Section, for amounts expended (or,
if the Association shall so agree, such amounts
as shall be required to meet expenditures to be
made) for an Investment Project to finance the
reasonable cost of goods and services required
under a Sub-loan or Investment for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal
shall be made hereunder until BNDE shall have:
First: adopted detailed procedures satisfactory to
the Association for appraisal and supervi-
sion of projects financed by BNDE, and
Second: adopted a form of loan agreement satisfac-
tor to the Association pursuant to which
Sub-loans will be made; and
(ii) for amounts expended (or, if the Association shall
so agree, such amounts, not exceeding the equiv-
alent of $400,000, as shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) for the reasonable cost
net of taxes of the services of the experts
employed pu.suant to Section 2.11 (b) of the
Project Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section shall be authorized in respect of:
(i) expenditures in a foreign currency for goods or
services supplied from outside the territory of
the Borrower;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of expendi-
tures in Burundi Francs for goods supplied from the
territory of the Borrower but previously imported
into the territory of the Borrower through normal
trade channels; and
(iii) the equivalent of sixty-five per cent (65%) of
expenditures in Burundi Francs on account of civil
works;
(c) No withdrawal shall be made pursuant to paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section, unless the Sub-loan or Investment in respect
of which the withdrawal is requested: (i) shall have been approved
by the Association; or (ii) shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for
which the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the
Credit Account.
(d) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $100,000 equiv-
alent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such
Investment Project; or (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to
all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made pursuant to paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section on account of (i) expenditures made before the
date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Association's
approval, or in respect of an Investment, more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the
application and information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the
Project Agreement or (iii) expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the request and information required by Section 2.02 (c)
of the Project Agreement.


﻿--5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1987 and ending April 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 15, 1997 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description and Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BNDE
in financing such productive facilities and resources in Eurundi
as will contribute to the economic and social development of the
country through loans to and investments in productive enterprises
in Burundi for specific development projects.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BNDE the
equivalent in Burundi Francs of three million dollars ($3,000,000)
out of the proceeds of the Credit under a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and BNDE, at an
interest rate of five per cent (5%) per annum on the outstanding
balance, and under such other terms and conditions as shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and BNDE, which
shall include the payment of a commission to the Borrower, at the
rate of one per cent (1%) per annum on account of the foreign
exchange risks to be borne by the Borrower on the portion of such
proceeds utilized by BNDE for Investments and for Sub-loans.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall transfer to the BNDE, as a grant,
such amounts as shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account under
Section 2.03 (a) (ii) hereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available or cause to
be made available to BNDE medium- and long-term loans in such
amounts and at such times as shall be required by BNDE to finance
the portions of the Sub-loans and Investments not financed by the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities, or any agency or instrumentality of any of its political
subdivisions, to take any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the performance by BNDE of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall
be required on its part in order to enable BNDE to perform such
obligations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary or appropriate to enable BNDE to increase
its share capital as set forth in Section 3.06 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BNDE under the Project Agreement;


﻿-7-
(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNDE
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the loan contract or agreement or any
security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(c) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BNDE, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would materially and adversely affect the conduct
of BNDE's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(d) BNDE shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BNDE
or by others whereby any of the assets of BNDE shall or may be
distributed among its creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNDE or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and BNDE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BNDE, respectively;


﻿-8-
(b) BNDE has adopted the Statement of Policy;
(c) BNDE has established the unit referred to in Section
2.11 (a) of the Project Agreement; and
(d) BNDE has recruited the two experts referred to in, and
in accordance with, Section 2.11 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, BNDE, and is legally
binding upon BNDE in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, the Borrower and
BNDE, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
BNDE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 29, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Article V of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 18 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie
et des Finances
Bolte Postale 1830
Bujumbura
R6publique du Burundi
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINICOFIN                           MINAFFEXT 65
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ D. Shiramanga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of the Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e) of the Project
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under para-
graph (b) or paragraph (c) of such Section shall have been
received by the Association in respect of any portion of the
Credit, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of BNDE to
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account on behalf of the Borrower, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion
of the Credit shall be cancelled."


