Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19008 ZA
PROGRAM APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28.5 MILLION
(US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
OF THE
BASIC EDUCATION SUBSECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM (BESSIP)
March 5, 1999
Human Development I
Country Department 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1999)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
SDR 1.00 = US$1.4067
US$1   ZK2400
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
APL          Adaptable Program of Lending
AIEMS        Action to Improve English, Mathematics and Science
BESSIP       Basic Education Subsector Investment Program
CDC          Curriculum Development Centre
CSO          Central Statistical Office
DANIDA       Danish International Development Agency
DEB          District Education Board
DfID         Department for International Development, United Kingdom
ECZ          Examinations Council of Zambia
EMIS         Education Management Information Systems
ESIP         Education Sector Investment Program
EU           European Union
GRZ          Government of the Republic of Zambia
GER          Gross Enrollment Rate
ILO          International Labour Organization
INSET        In-service Education for Teachers
JAR          Joint Appraisal Report
JICA         Japanese International Cooperation Agency
JSC          Joint Steering Committee
LCMS         Living Conditions Monitoring Survey
MCDSS        Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MEPSU        Ministry of Education Procurement and Supplies Unit
MIT          Management Implementation Team
MoE          Ministry of Education
MPU          Micro Projects Unit, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MTFF         Medium Term Financing Framework
NER          Net Enrollment Rate
PAGE         Programme for the Advancement of Girls' Education
PIC          Programme Implementation Committee
PSRP         Public Sector Reform Programme
PWAS         Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
SACMEQ    Southern African Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality
SHN          School Health and Nutrition
SRP          Social Recovery Project
TRC          Teacher Resource Centres
TTC          Teacher Training Colleges
WFP          World Food Program
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
ZATERP       Zambia Teacher Education Reform Programme
ZCSS         Zambia Community Schools Secretariat
ZEPIU        Zambia Project Implementation Unit
Vice President:           Callisto Madavo
Country Director:         Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:           Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leaders:        Bruce Jones and Patrick Murphy



THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Basic Education Sub-sector Investment Progrm
Program Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Zambia Country Department
Date: March 5, 1999                            Team Leaders: Bruce Jones and Patrick Murphy
Country Director: Phyllis Pomerantz            Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia
Project ID: 3249                               Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Lending  Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  ] ]Yes [X) No
IDA             Borrower   Others/    Total
Gap
USS m      %       US$ m      US$ m    US$ m
APL 1 Credit       40      11.8       167        133      340    January 1999 -       June 2002
APL 2 Credit       60    12.         250         190      500       July 2001 -       June 2006
Program Financing Data
[1 Loan       I X I Credit    [ Grant     []Guarantee   [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 40.0 (APL Phase 1)
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined     1 X] Multicurrency     1] Single currency
[] Standard Variable    []  Fixed            [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:                   0.0%
Service charge:                   0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:      N.A.
Financing Plan (APL 1): [X] To be defined
Source                                         Total
Government                                       167
IDA                                              40
External Funding Partners (already committed)    67
External Funding Partners (not yet committed)    66
Total:                                          340
Borrower: Republic of Zambia
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: Ministry of Education
Estimated Disbursements (APL 1)
(Bank FYIUS$M):                           99                00              01             02
2.0              18.0            15.0           5.0
Cumulative                                2.0              20.0            35.0           40.0
Project implementation period: 3 years for Phase 1 (7 years in total)
Expected effectiveness date: May 1999              Expected closing date: June 30, 2002
Implementing agency: Ministry of Education
Contact pers3n:      Dr. Sichalwe Kasanda
Address:             P.O. Box 50093, Lusaka, Zambia
Tel: 260-1-253594               Fax: 260-1-254139               E-mail:



Zambia
Basic Education Sub-sector Investment Program (BESSIP)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose, Development Objectives and Phasing of IDA Support----------------------------1
1.   Program  Purpose ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
2.   Program  Development Objectives-------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
3.   Phasing of IDA  Support ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2
4.  Objectives of Phase 1, Key Performance Indicators and Triggers for Phase 2 ------------------2
B.   Strategic Context--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------3
1.  Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Program ----------3
2.   Main Sector Issues ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
3.   Government Strategy----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
C.   Program  Description Summary ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
1.   Program  Activities and Costs ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
2.   Program  Financing ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------   10
3.  Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Program------------------------------- 11
4.   Benefits and Target Population ---------------------------------------------------------------------  12
5.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements --------------------------------------------------  12
6.   Likely Utilization of the IDA  Credit ---------------------------------------------------------------  14
D.  Program  Rationale-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  14
1.   Alternatives Considered and Reasons for the Choice Made -------------------------------------  14
2. Major Related Projects Financed By The Bank and/or Other Development Agencies:------- 16
3.   Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Program  Design------------------------------------------ 18
4.   Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership------------------------------------------- 19
5.   Value Added of Bank Support in this Program  ---------------------------------------------------  19
E.   Summary Project Analysis-------------------------------------------------------------------------------  19
1.   Benefits and Costs of Primary Education in Zambia ---------------------------------------------  19
2.   Fiscal---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  20
3.   Technical ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  20
4.   Institutional -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  22
5.   Social --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  22
6.   Environmental Assessment--------------------------------------------------------------------------  22
7.   Participatory Approach ------------------------------------------------------------------------------  23
F.   Sustainability and Risks ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  24
1.   Sustainability------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  24
2.   Critical Risks------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  24
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects ---------------------------------------------------------------------  25
G.  Main Loan Conditions ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  25
1.   Special Conditions of Effectiveness---------------------------------------------------------------- 25
2.   Other Conditions -------------------=----------------------------------------------------------------- 25
H.  Readiness for Implementation  --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 25
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26



Annexes
Annex 1.   Objectives, Phasing and Triggers for IDA Support
Appendix A Phasing of Activities Under Adaptable Program of Lending
Annex 2.   Program Description and Detail on Phase I of IDA Support
Annex 3.   Program Costs and Financing: Explanatory Note
BESSIP Program Costs, 1999
BESSIP Program Costs, 2000
BESSIP Program Costs, 2001
BESSIP Program Costs, 1999-2001
Costs of BESSIP Components during 1999-2001
BESSIP Program Costs during 1999-2001
Component 1, Program Management - Detailed Costs
Component 2, Basic School Infrastructure - Detailed Costs
Component 3, Teacher Development - Detailed Costs
Component 4, Educational Materials - Detailed Costs
Component 5, Equity Interventions - Detailed Costs
Component 6, Health and Nutrition - Detailed Costs
Component 7, Curriculum Development - Detailed Costs
Component 8, Capacity Building and Decentralization - Detailed Costs
External Financing Agencies - Ongoing Activities and Interest in BESSIP Components
Annex 4.   Economic Analysis
Annex 5.   Fiscal Analysis
Annex 6.   Procurement and Financial Management
Annex 7.   Program Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.   Documents in the Program File
Annex 9.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Zambia
Annex 10.  Zambia at a Glance
Annex 11.  The Government's Basic Education Sub-sector Investment Program
Statement on Education Policy Implementation During 1999-2002
LogFrame on Government Program
Annex 12.  Teacher Supply, Needs, Deployment and Compensation
Annex 13.  Decentralization in the Education Sector
Annex 14.  Program Management
Annex 15.  Progress Reporting, Semi-Annual Reviews, and Performance Indicators
Annex 16.  Education Structures and Curriculum in Zambia
Annex 17.  National Measurement of Educational Achievement
Annex 18.  Selected Statistics on Primary Education in Zambia
Map           IBRD 26792R



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                          Page I
A.    Program Purpose, Development Objectives and Phasing of IDA Support
1.    Program Purpose
Sixty-eight percent of all Zambians and 88% of rural Zambians are poor. Until very
recently, govemment revenue and GDP per capita have been declining and government allocation
to education and training, as a share of total government expenditure, was among the lowest in
Africa. The Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training is responsible for most
technical and technological training in Zambia, while the Ministry of Education is responsible for
primary, secondary and university education. Within education, 17% of the budget is being
allocated to support welfare and tuition costs of 3,000 university students, while 1.6 million
primary students receive 60% of the budget. As a result, government spending in primary school
is $22 per pupil. Households spend a further $17 per pupil on average (though there are
significant differences between rural and urban areas). Consequently, the quality of school
buildings, the supply of educational materials, the readiness and numbers of teachers and the
instructional time afforded to children are inadequate; and enrollment has stagnated, dropout and
repetition rates have increased, and children are perforning poorly on standardized tests.
Government's policy document: Educating Our Future: National Policy on Education
(1996) identifies the problems facing the sector, identifies targets for 2005 and 2015, and
highlights a strategy for moving forward. Basic education, defined as the first nine years of
school, is the first priority. The Basic Education Sub-sector Investment Program (BESSIP) is the
national program for basic education of the Government of Zambia (GRZ) and its principal
purpose is to provide relevant basic education of good quality to all children. Within the context
of achieving UPE by 2005, MoE has developed BESSIP objectives and programs more
specifically over the period 1999-2002, and proposes to concentrate during this time on
improving enrollment and learning outcomes in Grades 1-7.
BESSIP strategies and plans have been developed over the past three year period by the
Ministry of Education (MoE), working with support from multilateral and bilateral financing
agencies and invited stakeholders. The preparation process culminated in a joint appraisal
mission in September 1998, resulting in an agreed Joint Appraisal Report (J.A.R.). This Program
Appraisal Document is based on the J.A.R., but is more detailed on some aspects.
2.    Program Development Objectives
The two main objectives of BESSIP are to increase enrollment and to improve learning
outcomes. Currently, gross enrollment is at 84% and net enrollment is at 69% nationally. MoE
aims to increase gross enrollment to 100% by 2005 and to narrow the gap between gross and net
enrollment. While learning outcomes have not been systematically measured to date, MoE is
developing a national assessment to measure changes in leaming outcomes over the next seven
years. The baseline will be established in 1999 and national assessments conducted again in 2002
and 2005.
Development Objectives             Key Performance Indicators (by 2005)
Provide relevant education for all children in age   Gross enrollment rates increase to 100%
range and particularly for disadvantaged groups   Net enrollment rates increase to 90%
Improve learning outcomes for all children  Achievement scores in ongoing national
assessment show improvement over scores in
preceding assessments



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                              Page 2
3.     Phasing of IDA Support
Because of the uncertain macroeconomic situation affecting many of the education
sector's plans, the long-term nature of educational change, the revision of the Public Sector
Reform Program in general, and its application to the education sector in particular, and the
timetable for establishing District Education Boards as part of the decentralization of services, it
has been agreed between the Govemment and the Bank that Bank support for BESSIP during
1999 - 2005 will be provided through two Adaptable Program Loans (APLs). APL I is intended
to help finance BESSIP for the three years 1999-2001, while APL 2 will support the four years
2002-2005. To ensure a continuous flow of funds, APL I has a closing date of June 30, 2002,
while it is expected that APL 2 would be approved around mid-200 1.
APL Phases                              Actions to Be Taken
Phase 1: 1999-2001    Provide inputs to schools to enable more children to enroll and improve
leaming. Establish MoE capacity to monitor outcomes. manage finance
and develop quantitative framework for sector analysis. Support
decentralization of service delivery to District Education Boards. Pilot
measures to increase enrollment and improve leaming outcomes for
disadvantaged groups. Assist MoE to coordinate extemal support.
Phase 2: 2001-2005    Consolidate Phase 1 achievements, implement quantitative policy
framework and continue to provide key inputs. Expand measures to
increase enrollnment among disadvantaged groups. Continue to monitor
enrollments and learning outcomes, particularly among these groups.
Ensure sufficient places for all in age range, paying particular attention to
remote rural areas.
4.     Objectives of Phase 1, Key Performance Indicators and Triggersfor Phase 2
In pursuit of the overall development objectives, the first phase will support five main
activities within BESSIP. First, additional classrooms and targeted support will continue to be
provided to increase enrollment, particularly for disadvantaged groups, and key inputs including
in-service education for teachers and leaming materials will be provided to support enhanced
learning achievements. Second, capacity within MoE will be enhanced to monitor enrollment
goals and leaming outcomes. Third, a quantitative framework for policy analysis will be
developed for the sector. Fourth, decentralization of services to district education boards will be
supported. Finally, MoE will be assisted to coordinate and utilize all extemal support for the
sector.
A number of critical performance indicators have been selected as triggers to assist
Govemment to measure progress towards readiness for implementation of the objectives in Phase
2 and to provide IDA with a basis for approval of the release of funds for Phase 2. The activities
and triggers are shown in the table and monitoring measures are outlined in Annex 1.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                               Page 3
First Phase Objectives                      Triggers for Moving to Phase 2
Improve quality and increase   At least 20% of GRZ discretionary budget devoted to Ministry of
enrollment, particularly for    Education.
disadvantaged groups       Share of trained teachers serving in rural schools increased.
Building section MoE strengthened and 2,000 classrooms constructed.
Bursaries scheme in place for poor children.
Improve MoE monitoring     First National Assessment of Learning achievement completed and results
capacity and measures.     published.
Develop quantitative       Quantitative framnework in use by MoE.
framework for policy
analysis.
Establish and support      District Education Boards established and functioning in 60% of districts.
operation of District
Education Boards.
Establish MoE capacity to    Joint Steering Commnittee meeting regularly to monitor and receive reports
coordinate and utilize     on expenditures, activities and the achievement of overall BESSIP
external support.          objectives.
75% of all IDA funds committed.
Preparations in place for implementation of Phase 2.
B.     Strategic Context
1.     Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Program
(Last CAS July 18, 1996, Reference # IDA R96-131/1)
July The overriding CAS objective is poverty reduction and this is to be achieved, inter alia,
through improved human resources development. Two key elements of the strategy are improved
public sector efficiency and more targeting of assistance to the poor. The CAS envisages an
education sector program providing a framework which will allow greater access and improved
quality of primary services expected to benefit the poor. BESSIP supports poverty alleviation in
a number of ways. First, it aims at improving access to and quality in basic education which will
benefit the poor. Second, it will specifically target poor districts and poor children to provide
access to education of reasonable quality. Finally, improvement in education is linked to
improvements in the overall quality of life of the poor.
2.     Main Sector Issues
The two key educational issues are stagnating enrollment rates and the poor learning
outcomes. These are affected by the limited availability of resources, which in turn has resulted
from the low share (in comparative perspective) of the government budget devoted to education,
the inappropriate share allocated to tertiary education, in large part for student's personal welfare,
and the limited possibilities for cost recovery in rural areas. In lower and middle basic (formerly
primary) schools, the teaching/learning situation is characterized by lack of focus on children's
learning outcomes, limited instructional time in the first four years, an inappropriate language of
instruction for most rural children, inadequate motivation and preparedness of teachers, a
shortage of instructional materials, the poor state of the classrooms, and the limited number of
programs to support the education of the poor. An additional problem caused by poverty is that
many pupils attending school are malnourished and in poor health and this affects their readiness
to learn. Support from external financing agencies has been fragmented.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                           Page 4
Government budget for education and unit costs. GRZ financing for the Ministry of
Education has been increasing as a share of "supply expenditure"; for 1999 this share is 19.00/o.
Within GRZ financing for MoE, the share for "primary schools is 60%. In 1996, Govemment
expenditure per secondary student was 2.3 times greater than Government expenditure per
primary pupil, while Government expenditure per university student was 127 times greater. On
average, Government spends about $22 per primary school pupil while households contribute a
further $17 per pupil. However, an analysis of the data from the Living Conditions Monitoring
Survey (LCMS) found that the average urban household spent five times as much on education as
the average rural household. Therefore, a student from a rural household is likely to be attending
a school where expenditure on each pupil is US$30 or less, while a student in an urban area is
likely to attend a school where expenditure per pupil is US$50 or more.
Budget implementation. The National Policy on Education has pointed to the need for
improved budget implementation in the education sector. In both 1996 and 1997, GRZ financing
for the MoE budget was increased through mid-year supplementaries by 17%, but the largest
proportionate increases went for university student bursaries. In some years, unrealistically low
initial budget ceilings from the Ministry of Finance have hampered realistic budget preparation.
Centralized management of MoE. Until recently, most decisions affecting pupils and
teachers were taken at the MoE Headquarters. Decisions have taken a long time to effect and to
communicate, and have not always been based on an analysis of needs at institutional or district
level. For example, the appointment, confirmation, promotion, retirement and disciplining of
teachers has often been affected by lengthy bureaucratic procedures.
Teacher development, deployment and morale. Teachers are underpaid, poorly
prepared and deployed, trained in insufficient numbers and provided with little support in
schools. At a starting salary of about $660 annually teachers are paid less than university
students get for their meals and almost 25% below the CSO estimate of the poverty line for a
household with two adults and four children. In addition, the payment arrangements, involving
visits to Banks, are a hardship for rural teachers. Promotion opportunities are limited and the
additional payment often takes years to be processed. Except in better-off urban schools where
they can benefit from PTA supplements, teachers are demoralized, and current attrition rates are
9% annually. About one quarter of serving teachers are untrained. Teachers are deployed
inefficiently with an over supply of trained teachers in urban areas and most untrained teachers
working in rural areas (some rural schools are staffed only by untrained teachers). A separate
problem is the over-deployment of female teachers in urban areas (Lusaka and Copperbelt
provinces account for 45% of female teachers, but only 21% of the male teachers). Current
teacher college output at about 1700 a year is insufficient to meet the demand.
Inadequate environment for learning. About three-quarters of school headteachers
interviewed in a recent survey stated that their schools were in need of major repair or rebuilding.
The same survey found that a quarter of Grade 6 classrooms lacked a usable blackboard, more
than a quarter did not have chalk, about a third did not have any kind of wall-chart or atlas, and
more than half did not have a chair or desk for the teacher. While the provision of textbooks has
increased as a result of the Bank's support for ZERP ( Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project)
lIn its Medium Term Financial Framework (MTFF), the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
classifies Government expenditure into "supply expenditure" and "non-supply expenditure". "Supply
expenditures" refers to the annual allocations approved by the National Assembly for the various sectoral
ministries and agencies. "Non-supply expenditure" refers to budgetary obligations of the Government
which cannot be attributed to particular sectors, many of which have arisen on account of past
commitments made by the Government. For 1999, "non-supply expenditures" include debt service,
pensions, and severance benefits under the Public Sector Reform Program.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                           Page 5
and bilateral donor efforts, there are shortages in every school and across most subjects (87% of
Grade 6 pupils reported that they did not have a reader or textbook).
Limited instructional time. Recognizing the financial constraints, it is MoE policy that
teachers teach two classes sequentially in the first four years of schooling and provide 3.5 hours
of instruction daily to each class. This policy reduces the need for teachers and the cost of
education. However, instructional time is generally much less than 3.5 hours daily as teachers in
rural areas are often absent to collect salaries or deal with personal matters and many teachers use
instructional time to prepare for the next class. An additional factor is the impact of HIV/AIDS
on teacher absenteeism through illness and attendance at funerals. The estimated contact hours
for the first four Grades are 500 where 900 is the global norm. This is inadequate to provide
children with the basic skills in literacy and numeracy.
Inappropriate language of instruction and inappropriately focused curriculum. All
instruction in primarv schools in Zambia is through the medium of English, a language which is
spoken in the homes of a very small number of rural Zambians. This is considered one of the
main reasons why Zambian children performed so poorly in standardized tests of reading in
English. Evidence from other countries indicates that children leam to read and write more
quickly in their mother tongue and that these skills can then be applied in another language. An
additional problem is that the curriculum in the first four years does not focus on the basic skills
of literacy and numeracy: seven subjects are taught. This combined with the limited hours of
instruction limits children's acquisition of these skills.
Declining internal efficiency. Repetition and dropout rates are increasing. In 1980, no
more that 1.6% of pupils repeated a grade, compared with almost 6% (77,000 pupils) in 1996. By
Grade 6 more than 45% of pupils have repeated a grade and the proportion is higher in the poorer
rural provinces. Dropout rates are also increasing: in 1996, about 70,000 pupils dropped out of
Grades I to 7. These dropout and repetition rates affect the progression from grade to grade. Out
of 1,000 children enrolling in Grade I in 1990, only 770 remained in school until Grade 5 in
1994, and only 683 remained until Grade 7. Progression rates are lower for girls than boys and
much lower for rural than urban children. The worst affected are rural girls: out of every 100
who enrolled in Grade I in 1990, only 51 were still enrolled in Grade 7 in 1996.
Poor health and nutritional status of children. Current estimates put malnutrition rates
at 50% among school-aged children and a recent survey found that 46% of respondents came to
school at least once a week without eating. Health profiles of school-aged children in Zambia
show that parasitic worm infections occur in approximately 60%, and that approximately 75%
suffer from anemia. Iodine deficiency runs nationally at 32%, and symptoms of vitamin A
deficiency are also common. As a result many Zambian children are learning-disadvantaged.
While the Ministry of Health has been providing a School Health and Nutrition service since
1964, the service no longer examines children and- concentrates mainly on education on
HIV/AIDS. Food supplementation programs ceased in the 1970s.
Equity issues. Many Zambian children are vulnerable on several counts - being a girl,
poor, rural, orphaned, having special educational needs, being out of school. These personal level
inequities do not occur in isolation, but frequently interact synergistically. Currently, about half a
million children aged between 7 and 13 are out of school and the vast majority of these live in
rural Zambia. The poor participate in education less than the better-off and they benefit less, their
learning achievement being substantially below that of better-off children. There is growing
evidence that widespread poverty is reducing parental ability to pay school-related costs, is
inducing parents to withdraw children from school to participate in income-generating activities,
and is reducing community ability to participate in self-help development activities. While the
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) implemented by the Ministry of Community



Zarnbia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                        Page 6
Development and Social Services, is providing support for school costs, the total available is
inadequate and support is not being provided speedily.
HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS infection rate among the adult population in Zambia is
estimated at 19%. It is reasonable to expect that the infection rate among the teaching profession
is no different from the rest of the adult population. As a result, the impact on the work of
teachers is likely to be enormous: first, in terms of lost teaching time as teachers with the virus
get ill and teachers attend the funerals of colleagues and relatives; and second, in terms of the
numerical demand for trained teachers. If, as seems likely, 20% of teachers die over the next ten
years, the output of teachers' colleges, even with the planned doubling of output, will not keep
pace. There are also likely effects on pupil attendance and performance as children cope without
one or both parents. The number of orphans currently is estimated at 360,000.
Fragmented external support Currently, more than 14 external financing agencies
provide support to the education sector in Zambia. Much of this support in the past has been
fragmented, with each externally-assisted project having its own institutional arrangements.
Despite considerable external finance, Zambia's education indicators have stagnated during the
1 990s, suggesting the need to try a different approach
3.    Government Strategy
The Government's major policy document is Educating Our Future: the National Policy
on Education (1996). Among the key principles are liberalization and decentralization of
educational provision, allowing NGOs and local communities to establish and run their own
schools, and establishing Education Boards to enable communities and other stakeholders to
participate in managing educational institutions. The specific objectives and measures for the
first years of BESSIP are set out in the Statement on Education Policy Implementation 1999-2002
(PAD Annex 11).
The Statement recognizes that financing for primary education must be increased, in
order to reduce the backlog of unenrolled children, and raise unit costs in rural schools to bring
the quality of education closer to that offered by urban schools. Specifically, the share of GRZ
"supply expenditures" devoted to the Ministry of Education will progressively increase to reach
at least 20.5% in 2002, and the share of GRZ financing for MoE that will be devoted to "primary
schools" will be maintained at least at 60%. In order to make the allocation of public expenditure
on education more pro-poor, the Government will reduce transfer payments to university students
for personal welfare, promote a more even distribution of trained teachers among districts, and
revise the principles for allocation of non-wage support to districts to give more financial support
to poorer districts with less local revenue-raising capacity.
Currently District Education Boards (DEBs) are established in the Copperbelt Province
only. The Government's intention is to ultimately establish DEBs in all districts. MoE will
establish DEBs in at least 60% of districts as a milestone for approval of APL2. The MoE
Headquarters and Provincial Offices will be restructured, with reduced staffing for most units, to
fulfill better their new roles within the decentralized system. The new Planning Directorate,
however, will be larger than the current Planning Unit.
The Government wishes to increase the number of trained teachers and reduce the
number of untrained teachers, with the objective of eliminating employment of untrained
teachers. Teacher numbers graduating from Teacher Training Colleges are being doubled
through the implementation of ZATERP (the Zambia Teacher Education Reform Programme).
The strategy to increase the number of trained teachers relies on reducing attrition, by improving
compensation and benefits, especially in rural areas, and by providing in-service training and



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                         Page 7
generally improving teaching conditions, steps which are known to improve teachers' motivation.
Improvement in teacher compensation and deployment, including redeployment of excess
teachers in urban areas as justified, will be undertaken in the context of the Government's overall
Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP).
MoE aims at attaining a textbook/pupil ratio of 1:2 for all subjects and increasing the
availability of new classrooms, while reducing the percentage of classes meeting in substandard
structures, and where justified, reducing distances to school in rural areas. An experimental
program introducing instruction in a familiar language in the first year of primary school will be
tested in one rural and one urban setting. The curriculum will be reviewed to focus on literacy
and numeracy in the early years. A Health and Nutrition Scheme will be piloted in four districts.
A Bursary Scheme for girls and for the poor will be piloted in 1999, and through the Program for
the Advancement of Girls' Education (PAGE), specific interventions for increasing girl's
enrollment and achievement are being taken to national scale.
One result of the quality enhancement measures is expected to be improved intemal
efficiency with dropout and repetition rates declining. MoE will also direct attention to
increasing the share of 7-year-olds enrolling in Grade I each year in order to improve the net
enrollment rate.
C.    Program Description Summary
1.    Program Activities and Costs
(See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.)
Traditionally, extemal financing agencies have supported education in Zambia through
individual projects, which they have often managed through bilateral implementation
arrangements. BESSIP reflects a paradigm shift: it is the national program for Basic Education of
the Ministry of Education. BESSIP is primarily funded by MoE through its regular budget, and
external financing agencies contribute to the Program through various financing modalities.
The organization of BESSIP activities has been discussed between MoE and cooperating
partners, with the agreements reached reflected in the September 1998 Joint Appraisal Report.
The partners agreed that BESSIP activities fall under the following five programs:
* primary teaching/leaming/readiness;
* primary school infrastructure;
• pre-service and in-service primary teacher training;
* curriculum development; and
• administration of the education system (including capacity building).
As can be seen in the Program Costs table below (details may be found in Annex 3),
BESSIP expenditures during 1999-2001, the three years for which APL 1 is intended to make a
financing contribution, are proposed to be about $340 million, or about $115 million annually.
The distribution of expenditures among the programs will be roughly as follows: primary
teaching/leaming/readiness, 46%; primary school infrastructure, 32%; primary teacher training,
9%; curriculum development, 1%; and administration of the education system (including capacity
building), 12%.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                           Page 8
BESSIP Program Costs During 1999-2001
Programs                      Cost      Percent Dist.
(US$ millions)
Primary School Teaching/Learn./Readiness     156.8         46.1%
Instructional Materials                     24.1          7.1%
School Health and Nutrition                  3.3          1.0%
Equity & Bursaries                          16.6          4.9%
Teachers' Compensation & Other Operating   112.9         33.2%
Expenses Not Otherwise Stated Above
Primary School Infrastructure                109.4         32.1%
Pre-Service & In-Service Primanr              31.1          9.1%
Teacher Training
Teacher Development                         13.9          4.1%
PTC & TRC Capital Expenditures               9.2          2.7%
PTC & TRC Staff Compensation & Operating     8.0          2.3%
Expenses Not Otherwise State Above
Curriculum Development                         2.2          0.7%
Administration of the Education System/       40.8         12.0%
Capacity Building
Total BESSIP Expenditures                    340.4        100%
For purposes of implementation responsibility and organization of external support, eight
'components" have been identified. These are: Instructional Materials; Teacher Development
and Deployment, School Health and Nutrition; Equity: Infrastructure; Curriculum Development;
Capacity Building and Decentralization; and BESSIP Program Management.
One focus in the period 1999-2001 will be on transforming the existing 611 Zonal centers
into schools that can serve as models and training and dissemination centers for the other schools
in their zones. These schools will receive priority in all of the Ministry's activities including:
classroom construction and rehabilitation, supply of desks and educational materials, provision of
water and sanitation and targeted health interventions. In addition, teachers in these schools will
be singled out for upgrading and continuous professional development.
Primary Teaching/Learning/Readiness
This program covers classroom teaching/learning, and related support to enable children
at risk to attend school and persist in school.
The largest single cost element is teachers' salaries. The Government's intentions
concerning the deployment and compensation of teachers are described in the Statement on
Education Policy Implementation. In addition, this program includes three components described
below to support instruction and attendance.
Educational materials. MEPSU (MoE's Procurement and Supplies Unit) will be
strengthened through training and the provision of technical assistance in procurement. The
annual school survey will be analyzed to assess needs in each school and MEPSU will procure



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                         Page 9
centrally and supply 5 million textbooks during the period. Textbooks for each subject and grade
have already been developed or identified by the Curriculum Development Centre as part of
ZERP and are available from commercial publishers within or outside Zambia. MEPSU will
initiate work to decentralize responsibility for selection and purchase to schools with tailored
support for remote rural schools, and I million textbooks will be procured by schools directly.
Equity/gender. A person will be appointed within MoE to act as an Equity/Gender focal
point. Bursaries will be provided through the PWAS and NGOs and the initial impact evaluated.
PAGE (Programme for the Advancement of Girls' Education) is being extended to all provinces.
In each of the 611 Zonal center schools, a teacher will be designated responsibility for ensuring
the participation of vulnerable children in the Zone. Responsibilities will include working closely
with communities to identify children-at-risk and to support their schooling.
School health and nutrition. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health, a national
baseline study of school children's health and nutrition will be conducted and the results
analyzed. A pilot scheme will be implemented testing integrated interventions using four models
to support food supplementation, micronutrient provision and de-worming. A national strategy
for school health and nutrition will be prepared and discussed.
Primary School Infrastructure
In order to better coordinate school construction activities, a School Infrastructure
Section (SIS) will be established within MoE. The work of the Zambia Education Project
Implementation Unit (ZEPIU), which currently implements construction projects on behalf of
some financing agencies, will be brought into the SIS. SIS will be developed to include capacity
in physical planning, procurement, preparation and monitoring of construction accounts.
During 1999-2001 when APL I will be disbursing, 3,000 classrooms will be built and
1,600 rehabilitated. In the first two years, this will be implemented mainly using the demand-
driven community construction modality managed by the MPU (Micro Projects Unit of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development). The links between MPU and MoE will be
strengthened. MPU has a pipeline of community-demand projects ready for immediate
implementation and awaiting the availability of finance, as the ongoing IDA Credit for the
Second Social Recovery Project has been fully committed.
A school mapping exercise will be completed in 2000 and the results analyzed to plan
new school construction, including contractor-implemented construction in remote, impoverished
rural areas where community-based construction may be infeasible.
Pre-Service and In-Service Primary Teacher Training
This program includes the following cost elements: Staff salaries and other GRZ-
financed operating costs at the Primary Teacher Colleges (PTCs); physical rehabilitation of PTCs;
the Zambia Teacher Education Reform Project (ZATERP); staff salaries and other GRZ-financed
operating costs for the Teachers Resource Centers (TRCs), which are centers for in-service
training; and the in-service program - Action to Improve English, Science, and Mathematics
(AIEMS). A Primary Teachers' Diploma will be planned, and in-service education will be
provided to all Zonal leaders initially: content will include textbook utilization and assessment of
competency in literacy and numeracy. Teachers in these schools will be singled out for
upgrading and continuous professional development, including training in assessment and in
textbook use, which they will be expected to share with other teachers in their zones.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program Page 10
Curriculum Development
The Curriculum Development Centre (CDC) will review the existing curriculum, and
develop a draft for a new curriculum which focuses on the achievement of literacy and numeracy
in the first four years of school, with increased emphasis on life skills at the middle basic (Grades
5-7) level. In addition, the new draft curriculum will be adjusted to enable teachers to adopt a
flexible approach based on local conditions. A pilot reading program in one of the Zambian
languages, Icibemba, is being tested in 25 rural schools in one district of Northern province, and
this model will be refined and piloted in an urban and rural setting.
Administration of the Education System
This program includes the routine, recurrent costs of administering the education system
at the District, Provincial, and Central levels. In addition, it includes efforts to restructure and
improve the performance of administration, especially at District and Central levels. During the
next 2-3 years, District Education Boards (DEBs) will be established in many of the remaining
districts, and the Ministry of Education Headquarters will be reorganized to reflect the
decentralization and otherwise achieve a more effective structure.
The capacity building and decentralization component includes support to help the
DEBs and MoE Headquarters perform their functions more effectively: computers for the
Education Management Information System (EMIS) and financial accounting functions at
District and Central levels; vehicles to enable District officers to maintain contact with schools;
and training in data collection and analysis, planning, and accounting. In order to plan for
sustainable development of the sector a quantitative framework for analyzing enrollments, unit
costs, total costs and sector financing will be developed for policy analysis by MoE.
The BESSIP program management component includes technical assistance for the
financial management, procurement, and construction functions during the first two years, and
related incremental operating costs to support management of BESSIP. In addition, a national
assessment of educational progress will be carried out, and studies of the impact of activities on
the quality of basic education will be conducted. Details of the program management
arrangements are provided on page 13 and Annex 14.
Among the activities described above, the ones which are expected to have a reasonably
strong impact on the enrollment objective are: infrastructure; teacher training; school health and
nutrition; and equity/bursaries. The activities expected to have a reasonably strong impact on the
learning objective are: teacher training, school health and nutrition, and curriculum and
instructional materials.
2.    Program Financing
The Financing table below shows that the Government would finance about 48% of
BESSIP expenditures during 1999-2001, mainly for teachers' salaries, with external financing
agencies providing about 52%. Program costs are higher in 2000 than in the other two years
because of some bunching of the infrastructure program in that year. The numbers for expected
new commitments from other cooperating partners are based on statements made at the closing of
the Joint Appraisal in September 1998. On that basis, there is a small financing gap for 2001,
which is likely to be resolved as BESSIP is implemented.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                         Page II
Financing of BESSIP Costs During 1999-2001
1999     2000  1  2001    1999-2001
(US$ million)
Expected Costs                    106       120      114        340
GRZ                                53        56       58        167
Ongoing External Aid               33        24       10         67
IDA Credit                         10        20       10         40
Disbursements from Expected New    10        20       30         60
Commitmnents from Other
Cooperating Partners
Identified Financing              106       120      108        334
Financing Gap                       0         0        6          6
3.    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Program
GRZ budget allocations. Through the Semi-Annual Reviews, achievement of the
targeted increase (to at least 20.5% in 2002) in the percentage of "supply expenditures" going to
the Ministry of Education, and maintenance of at least a 60% share for "primary schools" within
the MoE budget.
Restructuring MoE. The MoE restructuring program is designed to strengthen MoE
capacity to plan manage and implement its programs effectively while decentralizing operational
decisions to districts, colleges and schools. The program has been approved by Cabinet in
principle, but full implementation must await final approval and resources for retrenchment.
Decentralization and community involvement. District Education Boards will
ultimately be established for all Districts and MoE will transfer powers to these Boards. The
planning and implementation of the decentralization process, including clearly defined roles and
supports for all stakeholders, will be crucial for achievement of BESSIP objectives. A real
partnership between government and communities is necessary to understand problems and to
improve education delivery. The establishment of DEBs will be carried out in phases over three
years and the training in provision of key functions will be also be phased with accounting and
planning receiving priority.
Teacher courses and deployment. To address the problem of trained teacher supply
Govemment is committed to extending ZATERP to all colleges in the year s 2000 and 2001.
Govemment is also committed to addressing the current anomalies in regard to teacher
deployment - oversupply of (mainly female) trained teachers in the two main urban areas; and
undersupply in rural areas - through determining and supporting fixed establishment norms for
each District and school. This will be carried out through the planned Teachers' Directorate and
implemented in partnership with the District Education Boards. In order to address the problem
of attracting teachers to rural schools, Government will freeze postings in urban areas and provide
financial incentives and housing for rural teachers.
2 "Primary schools" is a lower share than "BESSIP", which also includes primary teacher training, and
administration of the education system. Also includes Grades 8-9 (Junior Secondary).



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                        Page 12
4.    Benefits and Target Population
Anticipated Benefits of BESSIP
(a) The productivity of the economy will rise. One important benefit is the improved
economic conditions associated with the increased skill levels of the population. A greater
number of literate and numerate young people joining the labor force is expected to raise the
productivity of the economy. As a direct result of BESSIP an additional half a million young
people will have access to basic education, while the almost 4 million children participating in the
system over the period will have education of better quality.
(b) Social equity will be enhanced. Children from poor families will have a better
chance of attending school because school will be made more accessible and measures will be in
place to support poor districts and poor children directly. Girls will stay in school longer and
benefit more.
(c) Future generations will be healthier and are likely to be better educated. Providing
more girls with access to education and all girls in the system with education of better quality is
likely to reduce child mortality in future generations, reduce fertility rates and lessen the spread of
HIIV/AIDS. In addition, educated girls live longer and their children are better educated.
Target Populations
(a) The principal group to benefit are the 1.6 million children currently in grades I to 7.
They will be provided with more learning materials and their teachers will be assisted to teach
better.
(b) A second group to benefit are those who enroll in the future. Over the period of the
program, more than 2 million children will gain access to the system. More places will be
available, these places will be closer to where they live, and they will leam more.
(c) A third group to benefit are the poor and rural children. BESSIP will focus on
improving enrollment and learning in rural areas. In addition, it will target a number of
disadvantaged districts and support poor children through bursaries and supports for community
schools.
(d) Finally, the teachers will benefit as they will be supported in their work.
5.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
General. BESSIP will be managed by the Ministry of Education. Program policy will
be guided by a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) chaired by the Minister and comprising MoE
staff, cooperating partners and designated representatives of stakeholders. Each year, a meeting
will be held in May to review accounts and progress on the previous year's work, while a second
meeting will be held in November to plan work for the next year including financial projections.
These meetings, led by MoE, will provide external financing agencies and other stakeholders
with an opportunity to review progress and to observe on plans. (See Annex 15 for Semi-Annual
Reviews, and Indicators). A technical committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MoE -
the Program Development Implementation and Monitoring Committee - will support the JSC.
Day-to-day Program management will be through the MIT (Management Implementation
Team) within the Ministry. The MIT is chaired by the Deputy Permanent Secretary, Technical
Cooperation. The MIT will include the key operational staff of MoE. For each component a line



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                        Page 13
manager within MoE will be designated, and additionally an HIV/AIDS focal point has been
appointed. Annex 14 describes the Program management arrangements.
Management of external aid for BESSIP. In the Joint Appraisal Report, the following
external financing modalities are recognized:
Case I ("Pool")
Funds controlled by MoE (under direction of MIT)
Available for all BESSIP components
Funds from various partners mingled in a common bank account
Case 2
Funds controlled by MoE (under direction of MIT)
Available for all BESSIP components
Funds from various partners not mingled in a common bank account
Case 3
Funds controlled by MoE (under direction of MIT)
Available for a restricted number of BESSIP components
Funds from various partners not mingled in a common bank account
Case 4
Funds not controlled by MoE
Available for one or a small number of BESSIP components
The Joint Appraisal recognized Case 1 as the ideal financing modality. However,
attention was drawn to the fact that financial management capacity needed to be strengthened to
convince some external financing agencies, while others had legislative or policy restrictions,
unrelated to Zambia specifically, on financing modalities.
Arrangements applicable to funds Provided by cooperating partners under Cases 1,
2 and 3. A first draft of the BESSIP Procurement and Financial Procedures Manual (PFPM) was
prepared by MoE before negotiations, and has been commented on by Bank staff.. MoE is also
soliciting suggestions from other cooperating partners. While the Manual would, at a minimum,
be utilized for activities financed from the IDA Credit, it is intended that the Manual should be
adaptable to support provided by other cooperating partners under Cases 1, 2 and 3 also.
Procurement will be undertaken under the general supervision of the Management
Implementation Team, headed by its chairperson. Each component manager will be responsible
for identifying procurement needs under that component. There will be three units primarily
responsible for carrying out procurement activity: (a) the MoE Procurement and Supplies Unit
for textbooks, vehicles, and other equipment; (b) the Microprojects Unit attached to the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development, for community-based demand-driven infrastructure
activities; and (c) MoE's School Infrastructure Section, for arranging contractor-implemented
works in areas where the community-based approach is found to be infeasible, and to monitor all
school construction activities in Zambia.
Procedures applicable to funds provided by the IDA Credit. The Annual
Procurement Plan for goods, works, and services to be financed from the Credit will be part of the
draft Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB) for the succeeding year, to be submitted to
cooperating partners for the November Semi-Annual Review each year. As an exception, for the
initiation of the IDA Credit in support of BESSIP, a draft two-year Procurement Plan for 1999-



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                       Page 14
2000 has been submitted by MoE to the Bank in February 1999. Procurement methods, and
thresholds for prior review, are set out in Annex 6.
The IDA Credit will fall under Case 2. MoE will employ a qualified Finance Manager to
control and report on funds provided by the Credit. During 1999 and 2000, MoE's financial
management will be strengthened. In relation to the Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI), existing disbursement procedures will be followed until December 31, 2000,
and selected Project Management Reports (PMR) reports will be produced. With effect from
January 1, 2001, a shift to PMR-based disbursement will be made. The utilization of funds
provided by the Credit will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation. It is agreed that MoE currently has very limited capacity
to analyze data and provide timely reports (the Annual School Survey reports are a year behind
schedule). Support is being provided to computerize the statistics section of the Planning Unit
and further support will be provided to train staff. Currently, a good deal of research is being
carried out by external agencies (utilizing Zambian researchers but not informing MoE or seeking
their approval). In future, requests to carry out research on education will be examined by the
MIT. MoE will also commission impact research on key aspects of BESSIP (impact of in-service
education on classroom practice, community involvement in education, textbook utilization in
schools etc.). Progress on a range of BESSIP activities will be reported at the semi-annual review
meetings. Annex 15 provides a template for these reports.
6.    Likely Utilization of the IDA Credit
IDA support is intended to assist the achievements of all the BESSIP objectives, and the
Development Credit Agreement is drafted in such a way as to enable IDA funds to be devoted to
any of the components. In order to reserve some of the IDA Credit to be used flexibly to meet
needs for which the Govemment will be seeking grant aid, not all of which may materialize, only
$29.5 million (74%) of the Credit was allocated at Negotiations to specific Categories of new
expenditure, with $10.0 million (25%) reserved in the Unallocated Category and $0.5 million to
be devoted to refunding the Project Preparation advance. Initially, funds provided by the Credit
are likely to be used mainly for school infrastructure, textbooks, and vehicles and other
equipment to support decentralization.
D.    Program Rationale
1.    Alternatives Considered and Reasons for the Choice Made
A sector wide approach or a traditional project? Despite considerable extemal
support, Zambia's education indicators have stagnated. Government and external financing
agencies considered that bringing together the Government and all major partners under a
common sector policy framework and medium term investment program would help to
rationalize sector targets and costs as well as promote Govemment capacity and leadership.
A sector program involving four ministries or a basic education program with one
Ministry? During 1995-97, an inter-ministerial Secretariat reporting to an inter-ministerial
Coordinating Committee was working on preparing an Education Sector Integrated Program
(ESIP), which brought together the four ministries offering education services (in addition to
MoE, Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services, and Ministry of Youth, Sport and Child Development) and
developed a program of activities which included eleven sub-components. It was agreed, to



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                       Page 15
reduce complexity, that this wide and diverse agenda be supported by two financing packages:
the first described here; the second focused on training.
MoE managed or PIU managed? The advantages of establishing a Project
Implementation Unit for BESSIP were considered but the option was rejected on sustainability
and capacity building grounds. While a PIU would ensure technically acceptable accounting and
procurement standards, evidence (from Zambia as well as elsewhere) is that little capacity is
passed on by PlUs.
APL or traditional lending instrument? While Government has been working on
developing a four year program, the uncertainties in the macroeconomic situation, together with
the delays in restructuring MoE, the phasing in of decentralization, and the lack of a financially
sustainable policy framework for the sector, all point to the need for a flexible longer-term
approach to IDA support. Accordingly, a seven year program of Adaptable Program Lending, in
two phases, is agreed. The first APL over the period 1999-2001 will focus on developing
capacity within MoE while continuing to support the provision of important inputs to schools.
Demand-driven construction implemented through MPU or MoE School
Infrastructure Section? Over the past seven years, most of the demand-driven community-
supported school construction in Zambia has been carried out by MPU. This work has been
satisfactorily implemented albeit the information flow and coordination of activities between
MoE and MPU has not been ideal. One problem has been that the funds for this work were not
controlled by MoE. It has been agreed that all funds for school construction will be managed by
MoE and that the School Infrastructure Section, MoE, will set standards for and monitor all
school construction. It has been further agreed that, over the period of the first APL, MPU will
be contracted to implement all demand-drive community-supported school construction.
Relative priority of enrollment and learning objectives. Government is committed to
universal primary education and with 550,000 school-age children currently not in school,
increasing access must be a high priority. However, Government recognizes that the provision of
access to poor quality education will affect (and may already be affecting) parental demand for
basic education. Accordingly, the two developmental objectives of BESSIP are given equal
weight: to increase access while ensuring that children's learning outcomes improve.
Major reform of curriculum or curriculum review? While the curriculum was revised
under ZERP and new syllabuses and textbooks written and circulated to schools, there is an
ongoing debate in Zambia on the relevance of the curriculum for rural residents and the lack of
life skills orientation. Given the complexity of BESSIP and the fundamental problems with
literacy and numeracy, it was decided to review the curriculum and focus efforts on the
achievement of literacy and numeracy in the first four grades.
Local language/mother tongue instruction across the country or in rural areas?
While MoE has taken the decision in principle to introduce local language/mother tongue
instruction, there are considerable practical and financial problems to overcome introducing this
across the country. One problem is that children in city schools (and Zambia has 40% of the
population in urban areas) do not come from the same ethnic backgrounds. A second problem is
that the practice has been to assign teacher to districts not their own, and consequently teaching
pupils speaking a different language. A further problem is the cost: translating and printing
almost all the textbooks for Grades I and 2. Accordingly, it was decided to evaluate a pilot in
one district and, if successful, extend and refine the model in an urban and rural setting.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                                Page 16
2.     Major Related Projects Financed By The Bank and/or Other DevelopmentAgencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
(a) Bank-financed
Sector Issue                  Project name       Latest Ratings    Development
Ln./Cr. No. (S mil.)   Implementation   Objective (DO)
Signed, Closed      Progress (IP)
Consolidate education services, provide   Third Education Proj     U                S
facilities for secondary schools.    (Ln.900) $33m
6/6/73 - 3/31/83
Support administrative structure, increase  Fourth Education Proj  U               S
supply of middle and advanced level  (Ln.1356) $13.3m
business graduates                   1/17 77 - 3/31/83
Expand educational access in rural areas,  Fifth Education Proj    U           Closed early
introduce junior secondary schools.  (Cr.1251) $25.0
6/14/82 - 3/31/88
Arrest the decline in quality, improve  Educ Rehabilitation Proj   S                S
access, and strengthen management    (Cr.2429) $32m
1/21/93 - 6/30/98
Poverty reduction, community initiatives.  Social Recovery Proi   HS               HS
Education component rehabilitates and    (Cr.2273) $20.0
expands primary/secondary schools, skills 7/24/91 - 7/31/98
development.
Poverty reduction, conmmunity initiatives.  Social Recovery II Proj  S              S
Education component: primary school    (Cr. 2755) $30.0
rehabilitation and expansion; skills  7/18/95 - (12/31/00)
development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
(b) Other Development Agencies
Agency            Sector Issues              Activities and Focus         Commitment
(US$ million)
DflD         Program management;         Support for Pre-BESSIP fund;           12.0
Teacher development;        AIEMS (Action to Improve English.
Reading in Zambian language.  Mathematics and Science);
Literacy and reading in Zambian
languages
Irish Aid    Program Management;         Support for Pre-BESSIP fund;            1.7
Basic school infrastructure;    Region-based support for education
Teacher development         in Northern Province
Danida       Teacher development,        Support for ZATERP;                     3.4
Curriculum development      Support for curriculum review
Finland      Basic school infrastructure  Support for Buildings Unit, MoE;       1.0
Maintenance and rehabilitation
JICA         Basic school infrastructure  School construction                   16.0



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investrnent Program                        Page 17
(b) Other Development Agencies (continued)
Agency           Sector Issues            Activities and Focus       Commitnent
(US$ million)
Netherlands  Program management; Quality  Support for BESSIP preparatory   4.2
Decentralization; Equity  fund;
Support for quality enhancement,
decentralization and equity in
Western Province;
Co-financed ZERP
Norway      Educational Materials;    Support for Pre-BESSIP fund,         3.1
Equity                    Support for provision and
distribution of textbooks;
Support for distance education
program and NGO activities
USAID       Equity                    Girls' Education                     0.8
EU          Equity. Capacitv building;  Pilot Bursary scheme;              15.2
Basic school infrastructure  Technical assistance and training for
Planning Unit, MoE;
Support for Micro Projects Unit.
UNICEF      Equity/Girls' Education   (PAGE) Program of Action on         0.01
Girls' Education in Eastern
Province
UNDP        Capacity Building         Support for Central Ministry          0
training
OPEC        Basic school infrastructure    School construction             3.7
ADB         Basic school infrastructure    School construction and         5.2
rehabilitation
As is clear from the table, a good deal of externally-supported work is underway in
education. For example, DflD is supporting in-service teacher education through AIEMS and the
provision of initial literacy in a familiar language. DANIDA is supporting ZATERP and will
support the curriculum review. The Dutch and the Irish are supporting education in Western and
Northern Provinces respectively. The EU is supporting planning in the MoE and about to provide
bursary support for poor pupils. Finland has been supporting the Buildings Unit of MoE and
implementing a school maintenance program. Norway has begun to support textbook supply and
distance education. A number of activities are also underway to assist disadvantaged groups.
PAGE (Programme of Action on Girls' Education) supported by UNICEF and Norway aims at
improving girls' access, retention, completion and progression in schools. Currently PAGE is
working nationally to raise awareness and in a pilot scheme in Eastem Province to improve
classroom teaching and learning processes. To meet the demand for school places, about 120
community schools enrolling in excess of 14,000 pupils have been established in Zambia since
1994. These serve mainly urban communities without government schools. In addition, national
and intemational NGOs are supporting education through a variety of initiatives.
The work on BESSIP (and earlier on ESIP) has involved most of the extemal financing
agencies supporting education in Zambia. DflD, Irish Aid, Netherlands and Norway are
supporting a fund for BESSIP preparatory activities. ADB, DANIDA, DflD, EU, Finland, ILO,
Irish Aid, JICA, Netherlands, Norway, SIDA, UNESCO, UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID and WFP
all participated in the joint appraisal of BESSIP and a number of representatives confirmed during
the final meeting that their agencies would be providing new financing in support of BESSIP.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                       Page 18
While levels and detailed implementation modalities remain to be finalized, it is clear that
external financing agencies are committed to BESSIP and supportive of the process. Within the
past year, DfID, USAID and Norway have appointed educational specialists located in Zambia to
support and monitor their efforts. This has created greater understanding of the issues in
education as well as commitment to coordination of effort.
3.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Program Design
Coordination of external support. BESSIP will provide a vehicle for coordination of
views on policy, and external assistance. and is being prepared by a team of government officials,
with regular periodic feedback from representatives of external financing agencies. These
agencies are committed to supporting Government's efforts and have agreed to a code of conduct
and to work within BESSIP agreed programs. As explained, DfID, Irish Aid, Netherlands and
Norway have provided resources for a preparatory fund, managed by MoE. This is supporting a
number of activities considered important for BESSIP preparation: technical assistance in
accounting and infrastructure, logistical support for a joint-appraisal, preliminary work on School
Mapping, and support for National Assessment.
Weak Ministry of Education capacity. MoE capacity to implement is weak and a good
deal of attention is being paid to capacity building, particularly in planning,
procurement/supplies/construction, and financial management. In the longer term, successful
decentralization to District Education and Institution Boards will remove day to day decision-
taking from the Ministry allowing officials to concentrate on monitoring and managing. In order
to assist the transition, support will be provided to build capacity in Districts.
Pace and impact of restructuring. The difficult SIP implementation experience in the
Ministry of Agriculture demonstrates that restructuring and reassigning can take a good deal of
time and cause disruption in program delivery. Knowing that restructuring MoE will take a long
time and be subject to the general pace of the PSRP, MoE has put interim management
arrangements in place and sought technical assistance to ensure the successful implementation of
BESSIP.
Supporting community involvement. The initial evaluation of the decentralization in
the Copperbelt Province indicates that communities and Boards can supplement Government
resources and expertise to deliver education services at school level. The MPU experience with
demand-driven school construction and the MoE Buildings Unit and ZERP experience with
community maintenance provide further evidence of the benefits of community involvement
with schools.
Clarity of design and implementation mechanisms. The successful implementation
program of ZERP points up the value of clarity in project design and in implementation
modalities. While BESSIP is the total basic education program of MoE and consequently will be
more complex to manage, capacity building will be a major focus in the first phase and attention
will be paid to supporting MoE efforts to develop clear implementation modalities.
Building on strength in assessment. Under ZERP, the Examinations Council of Zambia
(ECZ) was strengthened to administer examinations efficiently and to begin to support pedagogy
in the classroom through the design of competency-based testing at Grade 4 level. BESSIP is
also utilizing the strengthened ECZ to provide leadership for the national assessment of
educational achievement.
Utilizing technical skills developed under ZERP. The BESSIP preparatory fimd is
supporting technical assistance from the Director and Financial Manager of ZERP. Their



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                       Page 19
expertise in infrastructure and financial management is particularly valuable for BESSIP
preparation.
4.    Indications o Borrower Commitment and Ownership
BESSIP supports the implementation of policies set out in Educating Our Future: the
National Policy on Education. As indicated earlier, government is committed to increasing the
share of government budget devoted to education and has provided increased funding in the 1997
and 1998 budgets. The components to be supported by BESSIP were chosen following a series
of 17 comprehensive studies on different aspects of education and training, carried out mainly by
Zambian researchers and MoE staff. The components were then identified and initially ratified at
a national workshop organized by MoE and involving external financing agencies and
stakeholders. All Bank missions have involved key MoE staff working in teams with bilateral
donor and Bank staff. MoE has appointed a BESSIP coordinator and designated two other
officials full-time and a number part-time to the task of preparing BESSIP. The Program
Implementation Plan was developed by MoE staff and then shared with cooperating partners for
comment before refining. It is clearly owned by the Ministry staff. The Minister of Education
has led three of the full discussions with cooperating partners, including the joint appraisal, and
has further indicated his commitment through statements in Parliament. In addition, the
President's speech on the occasion of the official opening of the Parliament in 1999 specified the
government's commitment to implementing BESSIP.
5.    Value Added of Bank Support in this Program
During program preparation, the Bank provided (a) technical advice in education,
finance and management issues, and (b) support for the process of external financing agency
mobilization and consensus building on key issues through financing the ESIP secretariat,
supporting a range of studies and workshops, and through substantive participation in conferences
and workshops. The Bank also assisted the government to produce background documentation
(including an Education Expenditure Review and the Benefits of Learning study).
During program implementation, the Bank will provide funding for key elements of the
program to ensure progress towards achievement of the development objectives. Experience with
sector programs in Zambia and elsewhere will enable the Bank to assist the government's work
on an education sector program and to provide advice on common monitoring and reporting
arrangements. As MoE embarks on an ambitious decentralization program, Bank experience of
decentralization and teacher development in other countries will be invaluable. The support to be
provided by the Bank and other external financing agencies in the context of BESSIP can help
bring realism and a focus on implementation to the Government's plans, and can provide leverage
in support of policy reforms such as introduction of partial cost recovery for higher education.
E.    Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.    Benefits and Costs of Primary Education in Zambia (supported by Annex 4)
There is a significant positive correlation between years of education, and wages
(Annex 4). The slope of the relationship is not constant; rather, it is steeper at the higher levels of
the education system. The return for primary school completion alone is 6%, while the return for
post-primary schooling is 17%. (It is, of course, necessary to complete primary school in order to
reap the benefits of post-primary education.) Education has statistically significant earnings
benefits only from Grade 5 onwards, implying that students who drop out before completing



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                        Page 20
Grade 5 may not have learned enough to have any impact on earnings. The estimated return to
primary education is lower in Zambia than reported in other developing countries. This may
reflect the low quality of primary education in much of Zambia. The BESSIP interventions are
expected to increase persistence and learning, and thereby enable more students to ultimately
obtain economic benefits from their schooling.
Estimated average costs for primary school attendance in 1996 are:
Public (direct) per pupil         $22
Private (direct) per pupil        $17
Private opportunity cost per pupil  $49
Total including opportunity cost  $88
The "opportunity cost" is the income to the household foregone, on account of school attendance.
The combination of low quality education and high private costs may contribute to unenrollment
by children from poor households. Bursaries to be provided in BESSIP will lower the pnivate
costs. which should help increase enrollment.
The Zambia Demographic and Health Survey found that desired number of children
varied according to women's education as follows: some secondary education, 3.9 children;
primary school attendance, 5.7 children; no education, 6.0 children. Negative correlations were
found between women's education, and children's health and nutrition indicators.
2.    Fiscal (see Annex 5)
The Govemment has recently reached agreement with the IMF and World Bank on a
three-year macroeconomic and fiscal framework 1999-2001. Following recession in 1998, real
GDP growth is expected to be 4% in 1999, accelerating to 5.5% by 2001. The program aims at
reducing inflation from almost 30% in 1988, to 15% by end-1999 and 8% by end-2000. As
inflation decelerates, the external depreciation of the kwacha is expected also to decelerate.
Taking into account the Government's deficit-reduction and revenue-raising objectives,
the Central Government's supply expenditure is programmed to be in the range of 19-20% of
GDP during 1999-2001.
The resources available to the education sector are expected to increase in two ways.
First, the Govemment will raise MoE's share of supply expenditures from 19.0% in 1999 to
20.5% by 2002. Second, MoE's initiative to put BESSIP into place is expected to enable MoE to
attract a greater share of the external aid available to Zambia.
MoE expenditure is projected in increase from 3.0% of GDP in recent years to at least
4.0% in the year 2000. Expenditure on primary education will increase proportionately. Since, in
the short term, real expenditures are expected to increase more rapidly than enrollments, public
unit costs are expected to rise from their current depressed levels. This will enable some
combination of reducing the high private costs, and increasing the total costs (more textbooks;
more teachers above the poverty line) to raise quality.
3.     Technical
School construction and rehabilitation. The total construction of additional classrooms
is projected to be 7,000 or 1,000 per year over the life of the Program. Construction projects in
an advanced stage of planning account for 440 classrooms per year over the next four years.
Three-quarters of the remaining gap is expected to be filled through demand-driven community-



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                       Page 21
based construction and rehabilitation, and this will be implemented through strengthening
capacity within the MPU. The remaining classrooms will be provided through targeted-
contracted implementation.
Currently, there is little physical planning and coordination capacity within MoE. The
Building Section is small and involved mainly in implementation-related matters. A number of
project implementation units for school rehabilitation and construction (ZEPIU/ADB,
ZEPIU/OPEC, and, until recently, ZERP/World Bank) function independently with own
management and technical, supervision and procurement staff. Other modalities (Irish Aid,
Northern Province, ESSP/Finland) work within the Buildings Section, MoE. Outside MoE, the
Social Recovery Project implemented by MPU is heavily involved in school rehabilitation and
construction. All of these bodies maintain working relations with the Ministrv of Works and
Supply and involve them in drafting plans, supervision and contractual matters. These
arrangements are agreed to be unsatisfactory for the following reasons: existing capacity is
fragmented; effort and expertise is duplicated; there is little data collection or flow; technical
specifications, plans and norms for school infrastructure are not standardized; physical planning
capacity is very limited; and there is no preparation and monitoring capacity within MoE.
The Programn will establish a Schools Infrastructure Section (SIS) within MoE which
includes capacity in physical planning, procurement, preparation and monitoring of construction
accounts. Directly implemented extemally financing agency-funded projects will be phased out
and all school construction and fumishing will be handled by SIS. The work of MPU will be a
source of expertise for community-based construction projects. The Zambia Education Projects
Implementation Unit (ZEPIU) which has strong expertise in contractual work and maintenance
will be brought into the SIS.
Design and cost of school-based teacher education approach. Currently, ZATERP is
experimenting with a "one plus one" course in three teachers' colleges. The first residential year
of the program is completed and student-teachers were assigned to schools in January 1999,
where they are teaching half-time, supervised by Headteachers and college lecturers, and studying
specially-designed self-instructional materials. This program has the potential to double the
number of new teachers annually as well as link teacher education more closely with the schools.
However, it requires a huge investment of resources, particularly scare expertise, to make it work.
The planning team attended the HDD/EDI/Africa region seminar on Distance Education for
Teacher Development held in Addis Ababa in May and redesigned the school-based year. During
1999, preliminary evaluations will be conducted to determine the efficacy of the approach and the
program will then be amended and extended in phases to all teachers' colleges.
Design and implementation of sample-based national assessment system. With
support from UJNESCO's International Institute of Educational Planning a group of countries
formed the Southem African Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ) and, in
1997, five countries carried out national assessments of reading at Grade 6. Zambia's assessment
was carried out by officials of the Planning Unit with some support from individuals in ECZ
(Examinations' Council of Zambia) and the CDC. While the exercise yielded valuable data, it
did not develop capacity in key institutions in Zambia.
Following a national seminar on assessment organized by the Bank and ECZ, the
Ministry of Education has formed a national committee to oversee the establishment of a national
assessment system in Zambia and has subcontracted the ECZ to implement this with support from
the Planning Unit of MoE, the Central Statistical Office and the CDC. A Coordinator has been
appointed by ECZ and a number of meetings held to determine the levels and competencies to
test, and to select a time for the first exercise. The national committee has determined that the
assessment should take place in 1999 and be conducted in English, Zambian languages, and



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                          Page 22
mathematics on a sample of Grade 5 pupils. Some of the test items being administered will
replicate those applied under SACMEQ. It is intended to carry out further samnple-based
assessments in 2002 and 2005. Comparing the data from these assessments will provide valuable
information on learning outcomes in Zambian schools. In addition, SACMEQ, which has now
been established as a sub-regional NGO based in Harare will administer a second assessment to
Grade 6 pupils in 2000 and 2005. These separate exercises will be coordinated to provide
maximum information for Zambia's policy makers.
4.    Institutional
Capacity Building. MoE has recognized weaknesses in its structures and the centrality
of decision taking and a new structure has been approved in principle as part of the PSRP. This
structure takes account of the decentralization of responsibility to district and institution boards.
The implementation of the restructuring and the decentralization program will impose significant
challenges for the Ministry, and, particularly, for the Planning function. The new Planning
Directorate will be strengthened through technical assistance and training and support
decentralization through capacity building at district level and the provision of communications,
office supplies and transport. Management of the total program for basic education, including
activities of cooperating partners will also have major implications for the accounting,
procurement and buildings functions. BESSIP will provide technical assistance and training to
support each of these functions centrally and at district levels. Finally, BESSIP will require
enhanced skills in data and information management and in monitoring and evaluation. Support
will be provided to build up these areas, including technical assistance and training.
S.    Social
Girls' enrollment, persistence and achievement. Through support for designated
Zonal teachers, as well as for targeted bursaries, BESSIP will identify and support girls-at-risk in
rural areas, while the support to nationalize PAGE will increase school-based support for girls.
One key factor affecting girls' participation, persistence and achievement is the presence
of female teachers. Currently, 46% of trained teachers (and 43% of all teachers) are female.
However, these are not deployed well: rural Zambian schools have insufficient numbers of female
teachers. In every province, female teachers tend to be concentrated in the provincial capital or at
district centers and Lusaka and the Copperbelt between them account for more than 45% of all
the female teachers (compared with only 21% of the male teachers). In the context of BESSIP.
the Ministry of Education will support the assignment of female teachers to rural districts through
stricter enforcement of teacher allocation in urban areas and by building houses for their use in
rural areas. Only 2.1% of female teachers are school heads (20% of males) and only 2.4% were
Deputy Heads (12% of males). Overall only 10% of female teachers had posts of responsibility
compared to 46% of male teachers. The Ministry of Education will monitor the assignment of
females to posts of responsibility.
Vulnerable groups. As described, the Ministry of Education will utilize existing
organizations, programs and agencies to improve the participation, performance and retention of
vulnerable children in school. In particular, MoE will assign a teacher to identify and support
children-in-need in each Zone and support the PWAS to provide bursaries for these children.
6.    Environmental Assessment
Environmental Category: C



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                               Page 23
7.     Participatory Approach
Key stakeholders have been involved during the preparation of BESSIP and will remain involved
during program implementation.
Stake-holders                 Preparation                         Implementation
A. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
Pupils in primary   CON   Consulted informally through over  CON   Will benefit from school
school                      50 school visits.                     rehabilitation and provision of
learning materials. Impact
studies will assess the learning
process and problems.
School-aged children                                       IS      Targeted for infonration
currently not in                                                   camnpaign on the benefits of
school                                                             education.
Teachers            CON   TTCs were visited and their views  IS    Through Newsletters
(incl. TTC students)        were reflected in the design of  COL   information will be shared. Will
ZATERP. Teachers'union                 benefit from pre-/in-service
representative participated in the     training and new teacher houses.
joint appraisal.
Parents and         IS      Views of representatives of PTAs   IS  Will contribute to demand-
communities         CON   and communities sought during    CON   driven school construction.
school visits.
COL
Education           CON   6 seminars held by ESIP.         COL   Institutional strengthening
administrators              secretariat/MOE and their views        through ministerial restructuring,
(central and local)        incorporated in program design.         technical assistance, training,
and equipment.
B. Other key stakeholders
Private sector (local)  CON   Secretariat of private school  COL   Private sector involved in school
association consulted and              construction and other civil work
represented in Joint Steering          and in supply of textbooks,
Committee (JSC).                      furniture and equipment. Private
schools will be represented on
JSC.
NGOs                IS      Zambia Community School        COL   Girls education (PAGE) and
CON   secretariat (ZCSS) consulted.           other community-based
activities. ZCSS will be
consulted. Will be represented
in JSC.
Local researchers   COL   Carried out preparatory studies.    COL   Continue involvement in studies
and assessment.
Ministers, central  CON   Minister of Education regularly  COL   Contintie to be briefed on the
ministries and      COL   briefs the cabinet and lhas briefed      progress and support the
parliamentarians           the parliament and sought support.      program. MoFED, MCDSS and
MW&S involved in
implementation.
External Financing    COL   All participated in joint      COL   Regular consultation through
Agencies                    preparation and appraisal, four        JSC, joint planning and
contributed to pre-BESSIP              monitoring; contribute to
preparatory funding and all           financial and impact
represented in JSC.                    sustainability.
IS: information sharing; CON: consultation, COL: collaboration
The level of participation is limited in IS, stronger in COL.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Prograrn                             Page 24
F.     Sustainability and Risks
1.     Sustainability
Institutional sustainability. As is clear from the table, the development of each of the
components has involved many of the key practitioners in Zamnbia education. Consequently.
there is a good deal of understanding of the BESSIP components, and this is likely to assist in
implementation. The work on textbooks, school construction and Headteacher training carried
out under ZERP is being carried forward under BESSIP. BESSIP aims to build capacity within
five key units in MoE: Planning, Human Resources, Accounting, Procurement and Supplies, and
Buildings. Finally, efforts to involve the community and schools in management decisions are
likely to result in better understanding of school needs and to develop ongoing commitment to
meeting those needs in future.
Impact sustainability. As BESSIP is designed to be a sector program, all of the
components will continue after completion and BESSIP inputs are being designed to ensure
continuity. Many of the components: teacher development, deployment and compensation:
school infrastructure; educational materials; and capacity building at national and district level;
are intended to provide basic services and materials for schoolgoing children, while others. such
as school health and nutrition and equity/gender, are testing modalities for long-term
implementation. The programn design is intended to strengthen the process and build capacitv in
addition to delivering the service.
Financial sustainability. BESSIP has been carefully costed to ensure that it is
affordable, particularly over the first three years. Financial projections for expenditure over the
latter years of the program and for the future will be developed during the first phase: a
quantitative fratnework projecting the impact of different policies on expenditures will be
developed and discussed with key stakeholders, including the Bank.
2.     Critical Risks
Risk                     Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
GRZ does not increase share of govemment budget  M       The Semi-Annual Reviews provide an
devoted to education, and MoE does not increase          opportunity for the extemal financing
share for primary education                              agencies to make representations to the
Govemment on this issue.
The macroeconomic situation deteriorates further  S      Government and external financing agency
cfforts are ongoing to support macro
cconomic policies conducive to stability,
investment and growth.
The institutional performance of MoE continues to  S     The importance of proceeding expeditiously
be weak, either because of restructuring-related         with the restructuring, has been discussed
disruption, or else because, even after restructuring,   with government and MoE and the Bank
capable recruits are not attracted because of            has funded the preparation of key job
continuing inadequacies in compensation.                 descriptions in the new structure. The Bank
is pursuing dialogue with GRZ on overall
civil service effectiveness through PSREP
and PSCAP.
Enrollment continues to be adversely affected by  M      The adequacy and effectiveness of
out-of-school household factors, such as poverty and     interventions, such as the bursary progran,
the household impact of HIV/AIDS                         will be monitored and evaluated with a
view to improvement.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                         Page 25
Risk                   Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Decentralization proceeds too quickly         M       MoE has agreed to implement
decentralization in phases
The complexity of the program causes management  M    Technical assistance is being provided in
problems                                              the first years. The JSC meetings should
identify problems in time and the process
enables support to be provided
External financing agencies do not meet entire  M     Progress each year is jointly reviewed semi-
financing gap                                         annually and plans tailored to resources
available. The IDA Credit is flexibly
designed to enable IDA funds to be
reallocated to critical activities.
Overall Risk Rating                            S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk). S (Substantial Risk). M (Modest Risk). N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects
There are none.
G.    Main Loan Conditions
1.    Special Conditions of Effectiveness (DCA, Section 6. 01)
The additional conditions of effectiveness (beyond those in the General Conditions) are
as follows: (a) MoE has adopted the PFPM, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank; (b)
MoE has designated the eight BESSIP component managers; and informed the Bank; and (c)
GRZ has established the project account and deposited therein an initial deposit of ZK I Billion.
2.     Other Conditions
Disbursement condition for civil works The Ministry of Education and the MPU have
approved a Memorandum of Understanding concerning their respective responsibilities in relation
to community demand-driven infrastructure activities to be financed under the Credit.
Disbursement condition for goods and educational materials. A procurement
specialist with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank will have been appointed and is in place.
Annual reviews (May and November). MoE will organize two meetings of the JSC each
year: the meeting in May will review accounts and progress on the previous year's work; and the
meeting in November will plan work for the forthcoming year, including financial projections.
Financial management. Funds provided by IDA will be controlled by a financial
manager with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
H.    Readiness for Implementation
An interim BESSIP implementation team, headed by the Deputy Permanent Secretary,
Technical Cooperation, has been appointed. A preparatory fund has been established and an
appropriate accounting system established to manage and report on the use of this fund.



Zambia Basic Education Subsector Investment Program                        Page 26
bTe engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
]J   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X]  The Program Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies
[/1 This program complies with all applicable Bank policies.
4X5ct (1o                                  . L"M
Bruce Jones, Sen#Economist                  Patrick Murphy, S       Education Specialist
Task Team Leadf, AFTH1                      Task Team Leader, AFTH1
Ruth Kagia, b
Sector Manager, AFTH1
Su&r Shetty,
Acting Country Director, AFC02



Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
Objectives, Phasing and Triggers for IDA Support
Narrative Summary                     Key Performance Indicators           Monitoring &                Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal
Greater access and improved quality of primary    Progressive increase in enrollment rates in  Annual school survey  Macroeconomic situation improves.
services to benefit the poor               Grades 1-7 to 100%                       data                Commitment to education sector maintained.
Progressive increase in learning achievement   National assessment
data
Program Development Objectives
Provide access to good quality, relevant education  Enrollment gaps between rural and urban  Annual school survey  Support for BESSIP is maintained.
in Grades 1-7 for all children.            children eliminated. Girls enrollment at  data.              Focus continues to be on improvements in
higher stages of primary cycle is equal to boys.  LCMS data.  access for all and learning achievement.
Achievement of the Program goals will occur  Learning achievement gaps narrowed.    NAS data.           Ministry of Education is restructured.
progressively, starling with the highest priority                                                       Teachers are supported.
Decentralization is supported and
1. Phase 1 (APLl): Building a process.                                                                  strengthened.
Continue to provide key inputs to schools to
enable children to gain access and improve
learning. Establish capacity within MoE to
monitor goals and outcomes and within DEBs to
deliver education.
2. Phase 2 (APL2): Consolidate achievements
and reach goal. Build on achievements in phase
I and continue investment program towards
achievement of enrollment for all children in
Grades 1- 7 and measurable improvement in
learning outcomes.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring &                Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Phase 1 Development Objectives              Actions to be taken before commitment of
(APL1)                                      APL2
Increased capacity within MoE while continuing    Deployment policies in place which increase   JSC reports.  Donors maintain support for BESSIP.
to provide key inputs to schools.           share of trained teachers serving in rural  Supervision missions.  Capacity of MoE at all levels increased. All
schools.                                 NAS report.          stakeholders involved.
Building section, MoE, strengthened to
monitor all school and classroom construction
and 2,000 classrooms constructed.
National bursary scheme in place for
vulnerable children.
At least 20% of Government's supply budget
devoted to MoE
District Education Boards established and
functioning in 60% of districts.
Quantitative framework for analyzing
enrollments, unit costs, total costs, and sector
financing has been developed for policy
analysis within MoE.
First National Assessment of Learning
achievement completed and results published.
Joint Steering Committee meeting regularly to
monitor and receive reports on expenditures,
activities and the achievement of overall
BESSIP objectives.
75% of IDA funds for APL1 committed.
Preparations in place for implementation of
APL 2
Phase 1 Outputs
1. National capacity to plan, implement, monitor  By 2005. Restructured MoE in place with  JSC reports.
and report built.                           independent District Education Boards in all   Annual school
Districts. National EMIS in place and in use   surveys.
at District level. All education managers,  LCMS data.
planners and buildings officers trained.  NAS reports.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring &                Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
National stakeholder consultation and    Baseline studies.
sensitization conducted. Financially     Supervision and mid-
sustainable policy framework in place and  term reports.
observed. Baseline research studies on aspects
of educational quality completed. Fully
functioning committee and management
system. All external financing utilizing MoE
procedures.
By 2001. Strengthened Planning Directorate
in place and functioning. Four other Directors
appointed. Human Resource Development
Plan developed for MoE. District Education
Boards established in 60% of districts.
Quantitative framework for policy analysis in
education sector developed.
Information/sensitization program
commenced. Joint Steering Committee
meeting regularly and code of conduct
followed.
2. Increased quality infrastructure for learning  By 2005. Places for an additional 400,000
within 5 kilometers of all children in primary  children provided, over 1,500 classrooms
school age range                            rehabilitated. 1,000 new teachers' houses
provided and 1,200 rehabilitated.
By 2001. MoE Buildings Unit rationalized.
Places for an additional 250,000 children
provided.
3. More and better trained teachers correctly  By 2005 Approximately 4,000 teachers
deployed.                                  joining the profession annually, all teachers
receiving one week of meaningful in-service
each year, deployment norms enforced and
attrition reduced to 4% annually.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring &                Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
By 2001 ZATERP course evaluated. Director
of Teacher Education appointed. In-service
provided for all teachers through Zonal
centers.
4. Textbooks and other educational materials  By 2005. 10 million textbooks purchased
available and in use                        centrally and distributed. Half of the District
Education Boards purchasing and distributing
texts to own schools. Storage facilities
available in all schools. School libraries
established in Zonal centers.
By 2001. Textbooks distributed to all Zonal
centers and storage facilities provided. Zonal
teachers trained in textbook use and
maintenance.
6. Basic school curriculum in line with and  By 2005. Curriculum developed and being
responding to education policy and needs.   implemented. Competencies in literacy and
numeracy developed and applied. All Grade I
teaching in rural areas carried out through
local language/mother tongue.
By 2001. Major stakeholders consulted on
curriculum. Teacher education curriculum
and basic curriculum aligned. Evaluation of
work on mother tongue instruction completed.
7 No child blocked from school because of costs,   By 2005. Nationwide bursary scheme in
uniforms, distance, unfavorable school      place. Equity considerations guide national
environment, parental perceptions.          resource allocations to schools and Boards.
Equity interventions mainstreamed in MoE.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
Narrative Summary                     Key Performance Indicators           Monitoring &                Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
By 2001. PWAS intervention piloted. Study
of equity and resource allocation mechanisms
completed. PAGE extended. Support
provided for Multigrade and community
schools.
8. Healthy and well-nourished children attending  By 2005. Policy and supporting structures in
basic education.                           place to monitor and support children's health
and nutrition.
By 2001. Baseline survey of health and
nutrition status of school children completed.
Policy drafted and being discussed.
Intervention modes tested and report available.
Program Components (Phase 1)
1. Program Management                      US$ 7.3 million
* Effective consultation with financing and
other partners.
* Committees and management teams in place
and functioning.
2. Infrastructure                          US$ 111.9 million
* Improve MoE systems to monitor standards
and locations.
*Provide good quality infrastructure closer to
pupils
*Ensure ongoing maintenance.
3. Teacher Development, Deployment and     US$ 16.0 million
Compensation
* Maintain deployment norms
* Institute new pre-service modality
* Provide in-service to Zonal leaders



Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring &                Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
4. Educational Materials                    US$ 23.1 million
* Strengthen MEPSU
* Devolve purchase to schools
* Ensure distribution
5. Capacity Building and Decentralization   US$ 12.8 million
* Restructure MoE
* Establish DEBs and train staff
*Improve data collection and analysis
6. Curriculum Development                   US$ 2.2 million
* Revise curriculum to focus on literacy and
numeracy in first four years
* Evaluate and expand mother tongue
instruction
7. Equity/Gender                            US$ 18.5 million
* Establish bursary scheme
* Extend girls' education initiatives
* Support community and multigrade
8. School Health and Nutrition              US$ 3.2 million
* Carry out baseline study
* Draft policy paper
* Pilot interventions



Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
Appendix A - Phasing of Activities Under Adaptable Program of Lending
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) will enable the Bank to provide flexible support to
Government for priority activities as it implements its total program on basic education. While
external financing partners have been involved in all of Government's preparatory work on
BESSIP and have committed themselves in principle to supporting different activities under
BESSIP and are continuing to support the BESSIP process, it will take some time for many
partners to translate this comnmitment into concrete agreements. APL will provide Government
with a source of financing to fill gaps in funding important components. The Government's long-
term objectives are clear: increase the GER in Grades 1-7 to 100% and the NER to 90%, and
improve learning achievement in Grades 1-7. Over the first three years, and in support of those
objectives, the IDA Credit (APL 1) will be used to build capacity within MoE and within District
Education Boards and to improve monitoring, while increasing access and improving quality
particularly for disadvantaged groups. In addition, support will be provided to develop a
financially sustainable policy framework for the sector.
Successful meeting of the triggers under Phase I will release funding for APL 2. APL 2,
which will also be in support of the government's total program, would support the Government to
build on the achievements of the first three years, and continue to support interventions which
increased participation by disadvantaged groups and improved learning outcomes while supporting
Government's attainment of the two objectives.
Triggers for Release of Funds for Phase 2
The triggers which would enable the Bank to consider approve of the Phase 2 Credit are the
following:
I . Share of trained teachers serving in rural schools increased;
2.  MoE's Buildings Section strengthened and 2,000 classrooms constructed;
3.  Bursary scheme in place for vulnerable children;
4. At least 20% of the GRZ supply budget devoted to education;
5.  Quantitative framework for analyzing enrollments, unit costs, total costs, and sector
financing has been developed for policy analysis within MoE;
6.  District Education Boards established and functioning in 60% of districts;
7. First national assessment of learning achievement carried out and results published:
8.  Joint Steering Committee meeting regularly to monitor and receive reports on
expenditures, activities and achievement of overall BESSIP objectives;
9.  75% of IDA funds for APL 1 committed; and
10. Preparations in place for implementation of activities to be supported by APL 2.



Annex 2
Page I of 9
Program Description and Detail on Phase 1 of IDA Support
Background
Government is aware of the problems facing the education system and is committed to
solving them. It has developed a national policy on education, Educating our Future: National
Policy on Education (1996),and the broad approach to solving these problems is spelled out in
this document. Guided by this vision, what is now being proposed is a Basic Education Sub-
sector Investment Program (BESSIP) covering all of the education activities being supported in
Zambia (GRZ-financed, ongoing donor-financed and new financing) with agreed development
objectives and an implementation strategy to be carried out by the Ministry of Education and
Zambian agencies with finances from GRZ, communities and external financing agencies.
Objectives and Process
The two principal objectives of BESSIP will be to increase the gross enrollment rate to
100% by 2005 and the net enrollment rate to 90%, while improving learning achievement at
different grades of primary school.
These two development objectives will be attained through focusing the government's
ongoing programs on achievement of the development objectives while developing new programs
which fill perceived gaps. Gross enrollment rates will be measured by the annual school survey
and net enrollment rates will be measured by the Living Conditions Monitoring Survey carried
out by the Central Statistical Office. Progress in learning achievement will be measured by
regular sample-based national assessments in key subject areas at different grade levels.
BESSIP will be financed by a partnership of government and external financing agencies
and the broad objectives and strategies have been jointly agreed by the partners. On the side of
the government, there is commitment to increasing the share of the government budget allocated
to the education sector while, at the same time, increasing the efficiency of teacher deployment,
and lessening the government's burden of responsibility for the tertiary sector. Govemment is
also committed to developing a financially sustainable policy framework for the education sector.
On the side of the external financing agencies, there is commitment to increasing their allocation
to the education sector, and to implementing their programs in accordance with agreed
government guidelines and a code of conduct. The partners will review progress regularly on
each of the BESSIP components and meet in full session semi-annually to review progress on
meeting the development objectives. BESSIP operations will be fine-tuned following the semi-
annual progress reports. DflD, Irish Aid, the Netherlands and Norway have provided funds for
preparatory activities.
Program Components
In conformity with the JAR agreement, the BES SIP activities have been organized into
the following five programs: (a) Teaching/Learning/Readiness; (b) School Infrastructure; (c) Pre-
service and In-service Teacher Training; (d) Curriculum; and (e) Administration of the Education
System. BESSIP "components" are described in detail under these headings. Each program and
component is analyzed by objectives, description, and implementation External financing
partners are identified as providing financial support currently or expressing an interest in
providing new support. Cost details are provided in Annex 3.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
Program 1. Teaching/Learning/Readiness
This is the main work of the Ministry and includes teachers' salaries and benefits,
Recurrent Development Costs (RDCs) for other school costs, instructional materials, equity
issues and school health and nutrition. This large programn includes several components.
Component 1.1. Teacher deployment and conditions
Objectives. The principal objective is to have more, better trained and motivated,
teachers deployed according to Ministry norms. Specifically, MoE aims to have an additional
15,000 trained teachers in schools by 2005 with a national pupil:teacher ratio of 45:1. This will
be achieved through expanding the output from teachers' colleges (an additional 20,000 teachers
will be trained in the period) and reducing the attrition rate, from the current 9% to less than 5%
annually. The use of untrained teachers will be phased out and experienced serving teachers
offered the opportunity for training. Over the period 1999-2001, a new pre-service teachers
course will be tested and evaluated, and measures will be put in place to retain qualified teachers
and deploy more to rural areas.
Description. The increased number of teachers will be achieved through the
implementation of ZATERP (see the description of Component 3 below). Attrition will be
decreased through providing regular in-service, paying teachers on time, and listening to and
addressing their professional concerns. A newsletter for teachers will be developed and
circulated. The rationalized deployment will be achieved through strict enforcement of school-
based norms in urban areas and removing the guarantee of employment for graduates of teachers'
colleges. The deployment to rural areas will be encouraged through increased rural allowances
strictly monitored and the provision of teachers' housing in remote schools, and ongoing in-
service support through Zonal schools.
Implementation. The proposed Teacher Education Directorate (TED) will be responsible
for implementing the in-service support and improved morale for teachers and monitoring the
quality and quantity of new entrants to the profession. In particular, the TED will be responsible
for providing in-service support through resource and Zonal centers to all serving teachers and
reporting on their morale and conditions of service. Payment procedures and maintenance of the
teacher norms will initially be the responsibility of the Directorate of Human Resources and
Administration. Once District Education Boards have been established in all districts, all school
teaching appointments will be the responsibility of the Boards: sanctions will be applied to over
staffing.
Financing partners. DANIDA, DflD, Irish Aid and the Netherlands.
Component 1. 2. Instructional Materials
Objectives. The Ministry of Education plans a phased, decentralized approach to the
procurement, supply and delivery of sufficient education materials to achieve and maintain a
pupil: textbook ratio of 1:2 in Grades 1-7 plus teaching and learning materials in all schools, and
tool kits for most rural schools. Over the period 1999-2001, 5 million textbooks will be supplied
to all schools, storage facilities provided for Zonal schools and teachers in these schools trained in
textbook utilization.
Description. A survey of textbook availability in schools is currently underway.
Following analysis of the information received, the Ministry will invite tenders to supply and
deliver textbooks: $4 million will be available for this in 1999. The textbooks to be supplied have
been developed or identified by the Curriculum Development Centre and are available from



Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
commercial publishers inside and outside Zambia. The suppliers will deliver the textbooks to
most schools. However, remote schools with few textbooks will be prioritized and MEPSU will
arrange to deliver textbooks directly to these. During 1999, MoE will initiate training and
awareness at school level to commence a decentralized system of textbook ordering. Publishers
and suppliers of textbooks will be involved. Over the period 1999-2001, storage facilities will be
provided in all Zonal schools and teachers in these schools will be trained in textbook
maintenance and use. When the 1:2 ratio has been achieved and storage facilities are in place,
MoE will experiment with a voucher scheme which provides vouchers to schools for
supplementary instructional materials.
Implementation. This will be carried out by the Ministry of Education Procurement and
Supplies Unit (MEPSU). Capacity within MEPSU will be strengthened to implement central and
school-based channels of supply for textbooks and to encourage all donors to utilize those
channels. Support for MEPSU will follow on an analysis of current and projected capacity to
achieve MoE objectives and is likely to include provision of technical assistance in key aspects of
publishing and procurement, training in data analysis, and the provision of some equipment.
Financing partners. IDA, Irish Aid, the Netherlands, NORAD.
Component 1. 3. Equity in Education
ObJectives. MoE aims to improve educational opportunities and outcomes for all
vulnerable children (the poor, rural, girls, orphans, children with special needs). Equity issues
permeate the entire BESSIP framework. Specific component interventions are of two types,
those affecting children potentially within the system (e.g. criteria for the allocation and
mobilization of resources, girls' learning achievement, reducing cost barriers for the ultra-poor)
and those directed at children currently outside the school system (e.g. through community
schools, outreach activities, provisions for distance learning).
Description. BESSIP will utilize existing organizations, programs and agencies to
improve participation, performance and retention of vulnerable children. The Programme for the
Advancement of Girls' Education (PAGE), which is developing "girl friendly" schools in Eastem
Province, will be extended first to two provinces and then nationwide. A nationwide bursary
scheme, will be directed to needy individuals in urban and more accessible rural areas, and
through District Education Boards to schools in remote rural areas. A particular focus will be the
development of frameworks to promote and support the provision of education by non-
government suppliers. MoE will provide instructional materials and on-the-job training and
upgrading for teachers and assist the provision of water and sanitation services to community
schools. Over the period 1999-200 1, a bursary scheme administered by the MCDSS will be
piloted and poor children will be provided with bursaries for school education, PAGE will be
extended to all Provinces, ZCSS will be strengthened and a school mapping exercise will identify
areas for building multigrade schools.
Implementation. An Equity and Gender Focal Person (EGFP) is being appointed within
the Ministry and this person will have overall responsibility for managing the component, liaising
with PAGE and NGOs and being linked with a designated officer responsible for equity and
gender issues within other components. The national bursary scheme will be implemented
through the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) of the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services (MCDSS). The capacity of MCDSS to implement the PWAS
is being supported through an institutional development grant and training is being provided by
the Zambia Institute of Management. MoE will also strengthen the Zambia Community Schools



Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
Secretariat (ZCSS) in its work to reach children and communities not currently served by formal
schools.
Financing partners. DANIDA, EU, Finland, Irish Aid, the Netherlands, NORAD,
UNICEF and USAID.
Component 1. 4. School Health and Nutrition
Objectives. The overall objective is to promote healthy and well-nourished children in
basic education and improve their capacity to learn. Objectives in the period 1999-2001 are to
develop a draft policy on school health and nutrition, conduct a baseline survey of Grades 1-7
pupils, and design and pilot test intervention models.
Description. The Ministry of Education will commission a baseline survey of nutritional
deficiencies in primary school children and implement a pilot scheme in two districts in Lusaka
and Eastern Provinces, in order to determine the feasibility and cost of a national school health
and nutrition program. The baseline survey will build on studies which have been conducted by
the Ministry of Health and will utilize a small sample of children. The pilot scheme will test
integrated interventions using four models for supporting food supplementation, micronutrient
provision and de-worming. Of particular interest will be the mobilization of community support
for some of the interventions.
Implementation. A Senior Inspector of Schools within the new Standards and
Cuniculum Directorate will have overall responsibility for implementation of this sub-
component. A representative group will be appointed as a SHN oversight committee: this will
include representatives of MoH and Central Board of Health, National Nutrition Commission,
Directorate of Teacher Development and PAGE. The pilot will be planned and implemented
jointly with the Central and District Boards of Health.
Financing partners. USAID.
Program 2. School Infrastructure
Objectives. Over the period 1999 - 2005, 6,000 new classrooms, accommodating
400,000 additional children, will be built, 3,000 classrooms will be rehabilitated, and 2,000
teachers' houses will be built in remote rural schools. In the period 1999-200 1, the School
Infrastructure unit will be rationalized, 3,000 classrooms will be built and 1,600 rehabilitated.
Description. As a first step a school-mapping exercise is being undertaken with GTZ
assistance in Katomo district and a nation-wide school-mapping will be carried out in 1999.
Priority will be given to construction of schools and classrooms in rural and peri-urban areas and
to providing access in small remote rural communities through building multigrade schools.
Schools built with pole and mud will be replaced. Three-quarters of all the new construction will
be demand-driven community construction. Targeted contractor activities will be provided to
ensure construction in remote rural areas: schools in these areas are likely to be mainly
multigrade with implications for classroom design. Improved guidance and supervision
procedures will be supported to ensure quality control while maintenance of school facilities will
be the responsibility of the community.
Implementation. MoE proposes to strengthen its Infrastructure Section through the
appointment of an architect and a civil engineer and the continuing provision of technical
assistance. The work of the Zambia Education Projects Implementation Unit (ZEPIU) will be



Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
integrated into the School Infrastructure Section (SIS). SIS will subcontract the Micro Projects
Unit (MPU) of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to carry out all the demand-
driven community construction. MPU has successfully implemented all of the demand-driven
community based school construction activities under SRP 1 and 2 and under ZERP. It is
expected that this work can begin almost as soon as the Credit is effective and MPU and MoE are
currently preparing the pipeline of community projects for implementation immediately funds
become available. Funds for this work will be provided through MoE and MPU. In addition,
MPU will report regularly to MoE and continue to liaise closely with MoE Buildings' Officers at
district level. For remote rural areas where demand is proven but community mobilization
difficult, MoE will seek tenders from small construction firms willing to build small multigrade
schools and teachers' houses in these locations. It is expected that the identification of locations
will await the completion of the school-mapping exercise. Through the ongoing work on ESSP,
community maintenance programs will be supported.
Financing partners. ADB, Irish Aid, Finland, Japan and OPEC.
Program 3. Pre-service and In-service Teacher Education
Obiectives. Over the period 1999-2005, an additional 20,000 trained teachers will be
added to the stock. The current in-service support for teachers will be expanded to provide one
week of meaningful in-service support each year for each teacher. During the period 1998-1999,
a "one plus one" course will be delivered in three colleges and evaluated, while all teachers in
Zonal schools will be provided with in-service support.
Description. The Zambia Teacher Education Reform Programme (ZATERP)
commenced in 1998. ZATERP aims to provide one year in a teachers' college followed by a
second year in schools. (Currently, student-teachers attend a two year full-time residential course
in teachers' colleges.) Student-teachers will teach half-time in school during the second year and
are mentored. In addition, they will receive specially designed printed self-instructional modules
and submit assignments for marking and guidance. College lecturers will visit the student-
teachers once a term. Weekly radio programs will provide supplementary materials. The design
for the second year of ZATERP benefited from the regional seminar on Distance Education for
Teachers organized by the Africa Region and EDI in Addis Ababa in May. The team preparing
the second year of ZATERP attended the seminar and designed the course during and following
that seminar. College output will double when the course is fully operational (first full
comllplement of graduates from ZATERP expected in December 2002). MoE has 77 teacher
resource centers in provinces and districts throughout Zambia. Action for the Improvement of
English, Maths and Science (AIEMS) continues to support in-service work in these resource
centers and has identified Zonal schools which will link teachers in each of 611 Zones across the
country. A wide range of professional development courses will be provided covering content,
methodology and cross-cutting issues, including pupil assessment and textbook utilization. MoE
will also build on the ZATERP experience and link support for student teachers in schools with
continuing professional development for experienced teachers. This will be delivered through the
Zonal and District Centers. MoE will also support a part-time 2-year Advanced Primary
Certificate course to be delivered by teachers' colleges in collaboration with the Resource
Centers. Finally, MoE will support an Advanced Primary Teachers' Diploma course validated by
the University of Zambia and offered in the National In-service Teachers' College in Chalimbana.
Implementation. This work will be coordinated by the new Teacher Education
Directorate (TED). The new structures provide for a Chief Education Officer and two Principal
Education Officers. The nine teachers' colleges will implement the ZATERP program.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
Financing partners. DANIDA, DfID, EU, Irish Aid and Netherlands.
Program 4. Curriculum
Objectives. The curriculum will be revised to emphasize the core skills of literacy and
numeracy in the early years and to encourage flexibility in organizing teaching and leaming to
match local conditions and the special educational needs of children. A pilot providing mother
tongue instruction in the first year will be extended to all rural areas. In the period 1999-2001, a
pilot curriculum will be developed and tested and the pilot extended to all schools in one
province.
Description. The revision will build on consensus among all stakeholders on the content
of the curriculum and will be implemented in partnership with parents, teachers and other
education specialists. A plan of action is currently being prepared involving mapping and
sensitizing all stakeholders, preparing a draft proposal with curriculum experts, organizing a
national symposium, selecting schools and conducting a pilot, evaluating the pilot and developing
a new draft curriculum. Competency tests at Grade 4 in English and mathematics are being
designed and tested by the Examinations Council of Zambia. It is anticipated that these tests will
be administered by every Grade 4 teacher in the country. As the new curriculum is being tested
these competency tests will be revised to assist the evaluation of the application of the new
curriculum and the teachers' success in conveying the core skills. The Molteno Trust (a South
African NGO with over twenty years experience in this area) is implementing a pilot reading
program in a Zambian language (Icibemba) in twenty-five schools in Kasama District. The initial
evaluation was very positive, showing children actively engaged in leaming and most able to read
at the end of the first year. Following a more in-depth evaluation, it is planned to extend the
experiment.
Implementation. The development of the curriculum will be carried out by the
Curriculum Development Unit within MoE. A special Critique/Consensus team will be
established charged with implementing the pilot and involving key stakeholders. The work to
extend mother tongue instruction is being supervised by the Zambia Reading Committee, a
specially appointed committee within MoE working on this issue since 1995. Competency
testing will be carried out by ECZ with support from the Curriculum Development Centre.
Financing partners. DANIDA, Irish Aid and DflD.
Program 5. Administration of the Education System
Component 5.1. Restructuring Ministry of Education
Objectives. The broad objective is to enable the Ministry of Education to effectively
plan, manage and implement its programs while decentralizing operational decisions to districts,
colleges and schools. The immediate objective is to restructure the Ministry of Education,
transfer responsibilities to districts, colleges and schools, and develop a financially sustainable
policy framework for the education sector.
Description. As part of the Public Service Reform Program, a management audit has
been conducted of the Ministry of Education and a plan approved by Cabinet in principle. The
restructured Ministry will have five Directorates: Planning and Information; Human Resources
and Administration; Teacher Education and Specialised Education Services; Standards and
Curriculum Development; and Distance Education; and three units: Accounts and Internal Audits;
Ministry of Education Purchasing and Supplies; and the Bursaries Committee. MoE is awaiting



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
funds to support retrenchment and will then advertise and interview for all posts. In the
meantime, priority has been given to establishing the new Planning Directorate. The restructured
Ministry is expected to become operational in mid-1999. The restructuring will be supported
through retraining for some MoE staff and the provision of technical assistance in selected areas.
Technical assistance and training in financial planning is being provided.
Implementation. The full acceptance of the restructuring package is a Cabinet decision.
Approval has been given in principle but the full Cabinet must approve the revised package.
Subsequently, the BESSIP Management Implementation team will implement the. restructuring in
stages, commencing immediately with the recruitment of a Director of Planning and qualified
staff for the Planning Directorate.
Financing partners. BESSIP preparatory fund.
Component 5.2. Decentralization
Objectives. The broad objective is to move decision-taking responsibility closer to
schools and to involve school principals and communities. Education Boards are currently
functioning in 10 districts in the Copperbelt, in each teachers' college and in secondary schools
and Government is monitoring the operation of these boards. The near-term objective is to
establish Education Boards in at least 60% of all districts by the year 2001.
Description. Based on the experience with decentralization in the Copperbelt, guidelines
were developed and booklets produced in 1997 covering: Institutional roles, functions and
relationships; Financial Guidelines; Human Resources Management Guidelines; Procurement
Guidelines; and Standards and Evaluation Guidelines. These are currently being revised.
Training is being provided for accounts staff and in planning and management. The
establishment and operations of the District Boards will be supported through a national and
repeated staff training program in accountancy, statistics, planning and registry. MoE will invite
tenders for each of these training programs. An awareness campaign will be mounted across the
country aimed at involving parents, teachers, unions and the general public in a debate on the
functions of the Boards and their role within them. A campaign is already underway in the
Copperbelt and the lessons learned will be applied in the national effort. Education Boards will
be provided with basic office and communications equipment, including access to electronic mail,
and transport. A study of current information on levels of poverty by district will be conducted
and a financial allocation mechanism which distributes government resources progressively to
reduce inequity will be designed.
Implementation. Implementation and monitoring of decentralization is a key function of
the Planning and Information Directorate: the Directorate has a separate unit devoted to this
work. The officer in charge will be a member of the Management Implementation Team of
BESSIP.
Financing partners. DANIDA, EU, Irish Aid, Netherlands and SIDA.
Component 5.3 Capacity Building
Objectives. The principal objective is adequate capacity at central, province, district and
school level to monitor and provide access to basic education of reasonable quality for all
Zambian children. The objectives in the period 1999-2000 are: the development of a human
resource development plan; the establishment of an education management information system;



Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
the establishment of monitoring and evaluation for BESSIP; and support for planning,
procurement; and financial management functions.
Description. A Human Resources Development Plan is currently being developed with
support from the BESSIP preparatory fund. This plan will be implemented in tandem with
restructuring of the Ministry and decentralization to Boards. The Education Management
Information System is being developed with support from UNESCO and SIDA and follows a
program first developed under NESIS. Monitoring and evaluation capability is being developed
through support for the first national assessment being implemented by ECZ (see Annex 17) and
through the development of performance indicators being developed under BESIP (see Annex
15). In addition, a range of impact studies will be commissioned by the Planning Directorate and
carried out by the University and other agencies. With support from the BESSIP preparatory
fund, technical assistance has been recruited for infrastructure, financial management and with
EU support technical assistance has been recruited for planning. Technical assistance in
procurement is being recruited. Support will continue to be provided for technical assistance in
Infrastructure, Financial management, Planning and Procurement. In each case support will be
provided initially over a twvo-year period and plans put into place to support the capacity of MoE
to continue to provide services without technical assistance.
While Educating Our Future provides the broad strategic guidance for education in
Zambia, a number of developments: revised population estimates, funding availability; changes in
teacher preparation, for example; require that some of its policies be reexamined. Additionally,
the resources envelope for education is likely to increase with the commitment of government to
increase the share of the discretionary budget devoted to education and the increased resources
likely to come from external financing agencies for BESSIP. Accordingly, MoE will develop and
adopt a quantitative framework for policy analysis for the sector.
Implementation. The focus for initial implementation of capacity building will be the
Directorate of Human Resources and Administration. The Human Resources Directorate will
implement the Human Resources Development Plan and, following agreement and recruitment of
key staff, the assigned Directorate or Unit will take over the management of capacity building.
For example, the Planning Directorate will have responsibility for ensuring that the capacity to
monitor and evaluate is developed and they will prepare the semi-annual progress reports on the
Performance Indicators for BESSIP.
The development of a quantitative framework for analyzing enrollments, unit costs, total
costs and sector financing will be the responsibility of the Planning Directorate. Under the
guidance of MoE, a simulation model is currently being developed as part of the partnership for
strategic resource planning and four Zambian researchers have received training in the Institute
for Development Studies, University of Sussex. It is expected that this model will provide the
basis for a series of MoE/cooperating partner consultations on the cost implications of alternative
policies.
Financing Partners. EU, and DflD.
Component 5.4: BESSIP Program Management
Objectives. The principal objective is to achieve effective consultation and coordination
and the rational use of scarce resources within set priority programs. In the period 1999-2001, the
objective is to establish the mechanisms for managing, monitoring and reporting on BESSIP
activities.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
Description. The following committees have been established: a Joint Steering
Committee (JSC) meeting semi-annually, chaired by the Minister of Education, and comprising
MoE, extemal financing agencies and local partners; with responsibility for ensuring the effective
development, execution and achievement of the objectives of the National Policy on Education; a
Program Implementation Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary, to provide technical
support to the JSC; a Management Implementation Team (MIT), chaired by the Director of
Planning, responsible for coordinating and implementation and meeting weekly; and five sub-
committees on equity/gender, decentralization, human resource development, research,
monitoring and evaluation, and advocacy/sensitization. (See Annex 14 for a detailed
description.)
During 1999 a national assessment of learning achievement in English, Zambian
languages and mathematics will be carried out on a sample of Grade 5 pupils. Subsequently,
results will be disseminated and discussed and action taken to address perceived problems.
Additionally, a series of impact studies will be commissioned and completed and the results of
these will guide the JSC. Finally, six monthly reports on progress on selected indicators,
including admission of 7 year olds, dropout and repetition, new enrollments etc., will be reported
to the JSC. Annex 15 provides the template for these reports.
Implementation. The MIT is primarily a coordinating committee placed within the
Planning Directorate. Each component of BESSIP will be managed by a designated component
manager, normally a line officer of MoE. In addition to these component managers, the MIT will
comprise the Director of Planning as Chair and Planning officials responsible for decentralization
and budget preparation, and the Chief Accountant. A focal person on HIV/AIDS has been
appointed: responsibilities include coordination and strengthening of HIV/AIDS awareness and
public education in schools.
The national assessment will be implemented by the Examinations Council of Zambia
under the guidance of a broadly based committee and with support from UNZA and the CSO, and
with technical backup from an external agency for the first assessment. Studies will be carried
out by Zambian researchers, in some cases with support from external partners. All research
requests will be assessed by the MIT. The six-monthly reports to the JSC will be assembled by
the Planning Directorate.
Financing Partners. BESSIP preparatory fund.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 15
Program Costs and Financing: Explanatory Note
In view of the high and unstable rate of inflation, projects in Zambia for external
financing are ordinarily costed in U.S. dollars. This has been done by the Ministry of
Education for the eight BESSIP components. The details of costs for the eight
components as of November 1998 are shown in the eight component tables for 1999-
2002. Unit costs are based on recent experience with foreign-assisted projects such as the
Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project and the Social Recovery Project, among others.
To derive costs in current U.S. dollars for the period covered by the first APL, the
base costs have been increased by price contingencies according to an annual rate of U.S.
dollar inflation of 1.5% for 1999, and 2.5% thereafter. In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Policy 6.50 on "Project Cost Estimates and Contingency Allowances",
physical contingencies have not been employed.'
The "non-component" costs, financed by the Government, are mainly for staff
compensation. They also include some non-wage operating expenditures (Recurrent
Departmental Charges) not allocated to components. For 1999, these costs have been
converted to U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of ZK 2400. For 2000 and 2001, these costs
have been converted to U.S. dollars through an exchange rate which assumes that the
ZK/US$ rate continues to adjust to reflect differences between the rate of inflation in
Zambia, and the rate of inflation of internationally traded manufactured goods in U.S.
dollar terms.
In January 1999, the Ministry of Education slightly reduced the costs of some
components for 1999 and 2000. These revised costs are reflected in the tables for 1999
and 2000, and in the summary table for 1999-2001.
According to OP 6.50, physical contingencies are not calculated for sector and subsector loans, because in
such loans the physical targets are only broadly defined, and the exact achievement of physical targets is
not essential to the success of the project.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 15
BESSIP Program Costs, 1999
Programs                         Component       Non-          Non-    Total Costs
Costs     Component  Component
Costs          Costs
(US$ thou.)  (ZK million)  (US$ thou.) (US$ thou.)
Primary School Teaching/Learning/Readiness                                                        44102
Teachers' Personal Emoluments                                        76809        32004        32004
RDCs and Grants                                                       7830         3263         3263
Instructional Materials (BESSIP Comp.4)                  4057                                   4057
School Health and Nutrition (BESSIP Comp. 6)              622                                    622
Equity and Bursaries (BESSIP Comp. 5)                    4157                                   4157
Primary School Infrastructure (BESSIP Comp. 2)             29227                                  29227
Pre-Service and In-Service Primary Teacher Training                                               12847
Personal Emoluments of PTC staff                                      1426          594          594
Non-wage PTC Operating Costs (RDCs and grants)                        3771         1571         1571
Teacher Development (BESSIP Comp. 3)                     5389                                   5389
PTC Capital Expenditures - civil works, fum., vehicles, equip.    5003                          5003
Grants to Teachers' Resource Centers                                   695          290          290
Curriculum (BESSIP Comp. 7)                                 1322                                   1322
Administration of the Education System/ Capacity Building                                         18333
Program Management (BESSIP Comp. 1)                      4373                                   4373
Capacity Building and Decentralization (BESSIP Comp. 8)  8486                                   8486
Ongoing Recurrent Expenditures                                       13138         5474         5474
Total BESSIP Expenditures                                  62636                     43195       105831



Annex 3
Page 3 of 15
BESSIP Program Costs, 2000
Programs                         Component       Non-          Non-    Total Costs
Costs     Component  Component
Costs          Costs
(US$ thou.)  (ZK million)  (US$ thou.) (US$ thou.)
Primary School Teaching/Learning/Readiness                                                        54083
Teachers' Personal Emoluments                                        89277        33817        33817
RDCs and Grants                                                      10428         3950         3950
Instructional Materials (BESSIP Comp.4)                  9938                                   9938
School Health and Nutrition (BESSIP Comp. 6)              1218                                  1218
Equity and Bursaries (BESSIP Comp. 5)                    5160                                   5160
Primary School Infrastructure (BESSIP Comp. 2)             43536                                  43536
Pre-Service and In-Service Primary Teacher Training                                               10813
Personal Emoluments of PTC staff                                      1203          456          456
No.,-wage PTC Operating Costs (RDCs and grants)                       5994         2270         2270
Teacher Development (BESSIP Comp. 3)                     3859                                   3859
PTC Capital Expenditures - civil works, fum., vehicles, equip.    4228                          4228
Grants to Teachers' Resource Centers
Curriculum (BESSIP Comp. 7)                                  475                                    475
Administration of the Education System/ Capacity Building                                         11047
Program Management (BESSIP Comp. 1)                       1376                                  1376
Capacity Building and Decentralization (BESSIP Comp. 8)  2100                                   2100
Ongoing Recurrent Expenditures                                       19988         7571         7571
Total BESSIP Expenditures                                  71890                    48064        119954



Annex 3
Page 4 of 15
BESSIP Program Costs, 2001
Programs                         Component       Non-         Non-    Total Costs
Costs     Component  Component
Costs          Costs
(US$ thou.)  (ZK million)  (US$ thou.) (US$ thou.)
Primary School TeachinglLearning/Readiness                                                       58612
Teachers' Personal Emoluments                                      100131        35761        35761
RDCs and Grants                                                      11406        4074         4074
Instructional Materials (BESSIP Comp.4)                 10071                                 10071
School Health and Nutrition (BESSIP Comp. 6)             1423                                  1423
Equity and Bursaries (BESSIP Comp. 5)                    7283                                  7283
Primary School Infrastructure (BESSIP Comp. 2)            36674                                  36674
Pre-Service and In-Service Primary Teacher Training                                               7480
Personal Emoluments of PTC staff                                      1220         436          436
Non-wage PTC Operating Costs (RDCs and grants)                       6594         2355         2355
Teacher Development (BESSIP Comp. 3)                     4689                                  4689
PTC Capital Expenditures - civil works, furm., vehicles, equip.  0                                0
Grants to Teachers' Resource Centers
Curriculum (BESSIP Comp. 7)                                 422                                    422
Administration of The Education System/ Capacity Building                                        11446
Program Management (BESSIP Comp. 1)                      1527                                  1527
Capacity Building and Decentralization (BESSIP Comp. 8)  2214                                  2214
Ongoing Recurrent Expenditures                                      21574         7705         7705
Total BESSIP Expenditures                                 64302                    50330        114634



Annex 3
Page 5 of 15
Costs of BESSIP Components During 1999-2001
1999        2000        2001      1999-2001
US$ thousands
Instructional Materials
Values in constant prices (mid-1998)  3997.044    8632        9447         22076
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040        1.066
Values in current prices             4057         8977       10071         23105
Available financing                   1491        3357        3357
Financing gap                         2566        5620        6714
School Health and Nutrition
Values in constant prices (mid-1998)   612.8079   1171        1335           3119
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040       1.066
Values in current prices               622        1218        1423           3263
Available financing                      0           0           0
Financing gap                          622        1218        1423
Equity/Bursaries
Values in constant prices (mid- 1998)  4095.567    6805       6832          17733
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040        1.066
Values in current prices              4157        7077        7283          18517
Available financing                   4024        4456        2790
Financing gap                          133        2621        4493
Infrastructure
Values in constant prices (mid- 1998)  28795.07    44253     34403         107451
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040        1.066
Values in current prices            29227        46023       36674         111924
Available financing                  21085       18420        8460
Financing gap                         8142       27603       28214
Teacher Development
Values in constant prices (mid-1998)  5309.36     5661        4399          15369
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040        1.066
Values in current prices              5389        5887        4689          15966
Available financing                   3554        4118        1562
Financing gap                         1835        1769        3127
Curriculum Development
Values in constant prices (rnid-1998)  1302.463    457         396          2155
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040       1.066
Values in current prices              1322         475         422          2219
Available financing                   1272         201         201
Financing gap                           50         274         221
Capacity Building
Values in constant prices (mid-1998)  8360.591    2019        2077          12457
Price contingency factor                 1.015       1.040        1.066
Values in current prices              8486        2100        2214          12800



Annex 3
Page 6 of 15
Costs of BESSIP Components During 1999-2001 (continued)
l                                    1999        2000      2001       1999-2001
US$ thousands
Available financing                 514         825        800
Financing gap                      7972        1275       1414
Program Management
Values in constant prices (mid-1998)  4308.374    1323    1432          7063
Price contingency factor              1.015       1.040      1.066
Values in current pnces            4373        1376       1527          7275
Available financing                 912           0          0
Financing gap                      3461        1376       1527
Sum of Eight Components                                            _
Values in constant prices (niid-1 998)  56781.28    70321  60321      187423
Price contingency factor              1.015       1.040      1.066
Values in current nrices          57633       73134      64302        195069
Available financing               32852       31377      17170         81399
Financing gap                     24781       41757      47132        113670
Memo item: Value of price contingencies    852  2813      3981          7646
BESSIP Program Costs during 1999-2001
l  Cost   Percent  Total Cost   1999        2000       2001
Dist.                l99_    l__     _   I
Programs                  USS millions                          US$ thousands
|Primary School Teaching/ Learn./          156.8        46.1%     156797     44102      54083       58612
Readiness
Instructional materials                     24.1        7.1%      24066       4057       9938      10071
School health and nutrition                  3.3        1.0%       3263        622       1218       1423
Equity and bursaries                        16.6        4.9%       16600      4157       5160       7283
Teachers' s compensation and other operating    112.9  33.2%      112869     35267      37767      39835
expenses not otherwise stated above
Primary School Infrastructure              109.4       32.1%     109437      29227      43536      36674
Pre-Service And In-Service Primary          31.1        9.1%      31140      12847      10813       7480
Teacher Training
Teacher development                         13.9        4.1%       13936      5389       3858       4689
PTC and TRC capital expenditures             9.2        2.7%        9231      5003       4228          0
PTC and TRC staff compensation and           8.0        2.3%        7972      2455       2726       2791
operating expenses not otherwise stated
above
Cuirriculum Development                     2.2         0.7%       2219       1322        475        422
Administration of the Education System/     40.8       12.0%      40826      18333      11047      11446
Capacity Building
Total BESSIP Expenditures                 340.4       100.0%     340419    105831    119954       114634



Annex 3
Page   7   of  15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT I PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT
Programmie Cost US S
Programme Sub-Components                1999         2000          2001         2002         Total
1  1.       MIT Administration                        281,100       107,500      107,500       107,500      603,600
1  2         MIT EquipmesA                             74,000             0        88,000            0      162,000
1  3         Finance Office                            91,700        42,000         9,500        6,000      149,200
1  4        Reporting and Review                      141,000       122,000      102,000       102,000      467,000
1  5         Preparatory Studies                     1,453,000      350,000      350,000       350,000     2,503,000
1  6         Research and Evaluation                  158,140       171,452       214,860      111,000      655,452
1  7        Technical Assistance Requirements         180,000             0            0             0      180,000
1  8        EMIS Equipment/Activities                1,181,000       60,000        90,000       60,000     1,391,000
1  9        Advocacy and Sensitisation                188,000       145,000       145,000      145,000      623,000
I  10        Monitoring and Evaluation                250,000       220,000      220,000       220,000      910,000
1  11        Capacity Building                         87,000             0            0             0       87,000
1  12        PSRP Contingency                         138,500             0            0             0      138,500
1  13       HIV/AIDS Coordination                     105,000      105,000       105,000       105,000      420,000
I     Total Programme Costs                          4,328,440    1,322,952     1,431,860    1,206,500     8,289,752
Financed by                                            779,051            0             0            0       779,051
GRZ Budget                                     0             0            0             0            0
On-Going Projects                        779,051             0            0             0      779,051
UNICEF                                         0             0            0             0            0
USAID                                          0             0            0             0            0
Irish Aid                                 70,660             0            0             0       70,660
NeLherlands                              133,391             0            0             0       133,391
PAGE (Western Province)                        0             0            0             0            0
NORAD                                    125,000             0            0             0       125,000
REDD BARNA                                     0             0            0             0            0
EU                                             0             0            0             0            0
DANIDA                                         0             0            0             0            0
DfiD                                     450,000             0            0             0      450,000
Flnancing Gap                                        3,549,3891    1,322,952|   1,431,8601   1,206,5001   7510,701



Annex 3
Page 8 of 15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 2 BASIC SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE
Programme Cost US S
Summary                    1999         2000          2001          2002         Total
2 1. 1    FamlUarisation & Capacity Buildlng                0            0             0            0             0
2 1. 2    Community Demand Driven Actvltles           383,270       894,296      894,296       383,270     2,555,132
I
2 1. 3    TargeteCommunlty based Activities           153,358       357,837      357,837       153,358     1,022,390
2 1. 4    Targeted Contractor based Activities              0            0             0            0             0
2 1. 5    Monitoring & Supervision                    614,180       496,256      496,256       212,680     1,819,372
2 1. 6    Equipment & Maintenance                     312,030       249,075      249,075       106,746      916,926
2  1 7    Construction and RehabWlItation            8,834,866   .20,614,499    20,614,499   8,834,866    58,898,730
Borehole Installation                      268,893      627,415       627,415      268,893     1,792,616
New Classroom Construction               1,762,992     4,113,648    4,113,648     1,762,992    11,753,280
Rehabilitation of Classrooms               670,533     1,564,576    1,564,576      670,533     4.470,218
New Teachers Houses Construction         3,652,969     8,523.594    8,523,594     3,652,969    24,353,126
Rehabilitation of Teachers Houses          476,364     1,111,515    1,111,515      476,364     3,175,758
Latrienes/Toiets Constuction             1,252,379     2,922,212    2,922,212     1,252,379    8,349,182
Community Schools Construction             104,464      243,571       243,571      104,464       696,070
Electrification (Classroom & Houses)            0             0             0            0            0
4   Fumiture forNew Clasrooms                 457,380      1,067,220    1,067,220      457,380     3,049,200
Fumiture for Rehabilitated Classrooms      181,764      424,116       424,116      181,764     1,211,760
Fumiture for Community Schools               7,128       16.632        16,632        7,128        47,520
2  1 8    Maintenance of Targeted Facilties           909,051     2,121,121     2,121,121      909,051     6,060,344
2  1 9    Infrastructure (On-Going Projects)        22,453,911    19,520,000    9,670,000    9,912,000    61,555,911
2 1. Primary School Infrastructure Total            33,660,666    44,253,084    34,403,084    20,511,971   132,828,805
FINANCED BY                                         22,453,911    18,420,000    8,460,000     8,581,000    57,914,911
GRZ Budget                               4,083,911     4,850,000    4,460,000     4,581,000    17,974,911
2  1 9    Counterpartfunds                            833,911       500,000            0             0     1,333,911
2  1 9    RDC's - Desks                              1,000,000    1,100,000     1,210,000    1,331,000     4,641,000
2  1 8    Capital - Rehabilitation and Maintenance   2,250,000    3,250,000     3,250,000    3,250,000    12,000,000
On-Gplng ProJects                       18,370,000    13,570,000    4,000,000     4,000,000    39,940,000
2  1 1-6   Support Activities                               0            0             0            0             0
2  1 9    ConstrucUon and RehabIlitation            18,370,000    13,570,000    4,000,000    4,000,000    39,940,000
OPEC                                     1,500,000            0             0            0      1,500,000
ADB II                                   3,300,000            0             0            0      3,300,000
JICA                                     8,000,000     8,000,000            0            0    16,000,000
FINNIDA                                  1,000,000            0             0            0      1,000,000
IRISH AID                                  570,000      570,000             0            0      1,140,000
MPU                                      4,000,000     3,000,000    2,000,000     2,000,000    11,000,000
OPEC II                              I _      _        2.000,000    2,000,000     2,000,000    6,000,000
2  1 8    Maintenance of Taredted FacIlies                  0            0             0             0            O
Financing Gap                                       11,206,755    25,833,0841  25,943,084    11,930,971    74,913,894
2  1 1-6   Support Activities                        1,462,838    1,997,4641    1,997,464      856,054     6,313,820
2  1 7/9   Construction and Reliabilitation          8,834,866    21,714,4991  21,824,499    10,165,866    62,539,730
2  1 8    MaIntenance of Targeted Faclities           909051      2,121,1211   2,121,121       909,051     6,060,344



Annex 3
Paze  9 of  15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 3 TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
Programme C st US S
Programme Sub-Components            1999         2000          2001         2002         Total
3  1.       Inservice, TOT's and Multlgrade             1,011,102    1,011,102     368,502       359,170    2,749,876
3  2        Zambl:-keading Programme (Training)          240,172      250,783     1,415,916           0     1,906,871
3  3        Zambian Language(Gr 1) Readlng Sldlls        251,771      960,194      119,645     2,579,533    3,911,143
3  4        EngUsh Reading Skills (Gr 2)                       0            0        3,360       958,383      961,743
3  5        Capaclty Building In MOE                     560,521      438,004      454,437       107,440    1,560,402
3  6        Competency Testing (Gr 4)                    730,000      685,000         5,000        5,000    1,425,000
3  7        Primary Diploma (3,000 Teachers)              12,600      202,600        90,000       90,000      395,200
3  8        Preservlce Training (ZATERP)                2,854,602    1,325,482    1,227,411      801,411    6,208,906
3  9        Regional StOdy Tours                          41,450       41,450            0            0        82,900
3  10       Training of INSET Providers                  246,683      479,013      479,013       242,763    1,447,472
3  11     * Development of Training Materials            240,170      236,250      236,290       236,250      948,960
3  12       Procurement of Velhlcles                    1,518,994      31,642            0        63,284    1,613,920
3  13       Establishment of Zonal Resource Centres                 1,400,000                               1,400,000
3     Total Programme Costs                             7,708,065    5,661,520    4,399,574    5,443,234    23,212,393
FINANCED BY                                             4,054,074    4,118,194     1,561,771    6,009,951    15,743,989
GRZ Budget                                  500,000       500,000      500,000      500,000     2,000,000
On-Going Projects                          3,554,074    3,618,194     1,061,771    5,509,951    13,743,989
Irlsh Aid (Inservice & Preservice)           150,502       75,251            0            0      225,753
Netherlands (Training Western Prov)         233,333       233,333      233,333            0      699,999
DFID (AIEM)                                1,096,000    1,096,000            0            0     2,192,000
DFID (Primary Readlig Project)             1,458,882    1,598,253      828,438     5,509,951    9,395,523
DANIDA (Supportto Primary Educ)             615,357       615,357            0            0     l,230.714
Financing Gap                               _           4,153,9911   2,043,327     3,337,804      66,717     9,468,404



Annex 3
Page 10 of 15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 4 EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS
Programme Cost US S
Programme Sub-Components            1999         2000         2001         2002         Total
4 1.       Procurement of Vehicles                     31,642            0            0            0        31,642
4 2        Off-theAelf Books                         2,310,812    7,363,862    8,178,817    6,165,735    24,019,226
4 3        Teaching and Learnlng KIts                 192,091      768,364      768,365       192,091    1,920,911
4 4        Library Books                              500,000      500,000      500,000            0     1,500,000
4    Total Programme Costs                           3,034,545    8,632,226    9,447,182    6,357,826   27,471,779
Financed by                                          2,357,148    3,357,148    3,357,148     3,357,148    12,428,592
GRZ Budget (RDC's - Materials)           2,250,000     3,250,000    3,250,000    3,250,000    12,000,000
On-Going Projects
ADB, OPSUP -(Education Materials)          107,148      107,148      107,148       107,148      428,592
|Financin Ga                                     |     677,3971   5,275,0781   6,090,0341   3,000,6781  15,043,1871



Annex 3
Page-11 of 15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 5 EQUITY INTERVENTIONS
Programnie Cost US S
Programme Sub-Components                      1999         2000         2001         2002         Total
5 1.   Address Barriers for Basic EducaUon                5,000           0            0            0         5,000
5 2    SensiUsaUojp& Advocacy Programmes                 15,510       11,000        6,000        6,000       38,510
5 3    Establish & Administer Bursary Scheme            100,000      500,000    1,000,000    1,000,000    2,600,00
5 4    Training Package (MultlgradelOutreach)             7,500           0            0            0         7,500
5  5    Outreach Programmes for children at risk         18,505           0            0             0       18,505
5 6    ZCSS programmes support                          100,000      300,000      600,000     1,000,000    2,000,000
S 7    PAGE programmes support                          100,000    1,000,000    1,500,000     2,000,000    4,600,000
5 8    Multigrade Schools support                       100,000      500,000      900,000     1,000,000    2,500,000
5 9    MOE/Donor Memorandum of Understanding              2,500           0            0             0        2,500
5 10   Procurement of Materials and Equipment            96,942       35,300       36,062       20,300      188,604
5 11  '-'4Uonal Survey and Impact Studies                 5,000        2,500           0             0        7,500
5 12   On-Going Activities                            4,737,947    4,456,446    2,789,780      787,500    12,771,673
5    Total Programme Costs                        1   5,288,904    6,805,246    6,831,842    5,813,800    24,739,792
Financed by On-Going Projects                          4,737,947    4,456,446    2,789,780     787,500    12,771,673
GRZ Budget                                           0            0            0            0
On-Going Projects                             4,737,947    4,456,446    2,789,780      787,500    12,771,673
UNICEF                                            2,280        2,280        2,280            0        6,840
USAID                                          187,500       187,500      187,500      187,500      750,000
Irish Aid                                       100,000      100,000           0            0       200,000
Netherlands                                     200,000      200,000           0             0      400,000
PAGE (Western Province)                       1,366,667    1,366,666           0             0     2,733,333
NORAD                                         1,000,000    1,000,000    1,000,000            0     3,000,000
REDD BARNA                                    1,000,000    1,000,000    1.000,000            0     3,000,000
EU                                             600,000      600,000       600,000      600,000     2,400,000
DANIDA                                         281,500            0            0             0      281,500
Financing Gap                                     1     550,9571   2,348,8001   4,042,0621   5,026,300  1 1968,119



Annex 3
Page 12 of 15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 6 HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Programme Cost US S
Programme Sub-Components                 1999         2000         2001         2002         Total
6 1.       NaUonal BaseUne Survey                    231,003             0            0            0       231,003
6  2       Implem.1t SHN Pollcy                       22,836        35,490           10           10        58,346
1    Format  of Intersectoral Committees            10            10          10            10           40
2    Develop SHN Draft Policy                   20,703             0            0            0        20,703
3    Review Draft SHN Policy                      2,123        3,580            0            0         5,703
4    Advocate SHN Policy                             0        31,900            0            0        31,900
6 3        Management Information Systems             200,000            0            0            0       200,000
6  4       Communit MoblIlzation                        4,000            0            0            0         4,000
6 5        Introduce Pilot Scheme                   1,939,350      764,534     1,331,750    1,095,410    5,131,044
I    IdenLify Schools                                0            0            0             0            0
2    Procurement of Equipment & Distribute Foc  307,822      611,364     1,175,700     940,560     3,035.446
3    Conduct Examinations & Administer Drgs    1,629,678     153,120      156,000       154,800    2,093,598
4    Monitor and Evaluate Pilot Scheme            1,850           50           50           50         2,000
6 6        SHN RoU out Scheme                              0        28,800            0            0        28,800
6 7       -Monitor and Evaluate Scheme                     0         2,400        3,600        8,400        14,400
6 8        Revitallse Child-to-Chbld acUvities        146,000      340,400            0            0       486,400
6    Total Programme Costs                          2,543,189     1,171,624    1,335,360    1,103,820    6,153,993
Flnanced by                                                 0            0            0             0            0
GRZ Budget                                      0            0            0             0             0
On-Going Projects                               0            0            0             0            0
UNICEF                                          0            0            0             0             0
USAID                                           0            0            0             0            0
Irish Aid                                       0            0            0             0            0
Netherlands                                     0            0            0             0            0
PAGE (Westem Province)                          0            0            0             0            0
NORAD                                           0            0             0            0             0
REDD BARNA                                      0            0             0            0             0
EU                                              0            0             0            0             0
DANIDA                                          0            0            0             0            0
lFinanclng Gap                                  1   2,543,1891   1,171,6241   1,335,3601   1,103,8201   6,153,993



Annex 3
Page  13   of  15
BESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 7 CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT (Re-aUllguent)
Programme Cost US S                          .
Programme Sub-Components                1999         2000         2001.        2002         Total
7 1.       Broad Consultations                       63,700        50,000           0            0       113,700
I    Liteature Review .r                         8,700           0            0            0         8.700
2    Records ;dvey & formal contact             55,000           0            0            0        55,000
3    National Symposium & Conferences               0        50,000           0            0        50,000
7  2       Currlculul Relationships & Processes        1,500       16,800           0            0        18,300
7 3        Curriculum & Learning Areas                    0       137,000       55,000      100,000      292,000
7 4        Orientatlon SensitlsatUon & Advocacy       92,000       52,000       80,000       43,000      267,000
I    Orientation & Sensitisation               56,000        25,000       53,000       25,000      159,000
2    Advocacy                                   36,000       27,000       27,000       18,000      108,000
7 5        Teaching & Learning Materials              25,000           0        60,000           0        85,000
7 6        Vebicles & Eg!Upment                      50,000            0            0            0        50,000
7 7        On-Going Programmes                     1,272,175      201,000      201,000           0      1,674,175
7    Total Programme Costs -                       1,504,375      456,800      396,000      143,000    2,500,175
Financed by                                         1,272,175     201,000      201,000            0     1,674,175
GRZ Budget                                     0            0            0            0             0
On-Going Projects                       1,272,175      201,000      201,000           0     1,674,175
UNICEF                                         0            0            0            0             0
USAID                                          0            0            0            0             0
Irish Aid                                      0            0            0            0             0
Netherlands                                    0            0            0            0             0
PAGE (Western Province)                        0            0            0            0             0
NORAD                                          0            0            0             0            O
REDD BARNA                                     0            0            0            0             0
EU                                             0            0            0            0             0
DANIDA                                  1.272,175      201,000      201,000           0      1,674,175
!Financing Gap (Over Financed)                        232,2001     255,8001     195,000|     143,0001     826000



Annex 3
Page 14 of 15
DESSIP PROGRAMME COMPONENT 8 CAPACITY BUILDING &4 DECENTRALISATION
Prograusue Cost US S                             _
Programme Sub-Components                   1999         2000         2001         2002         Total
8  I       EstabUsh EducaUon Boards                   5,515,333      185,765      319,600      128,350     6,149,048
8 2        Planning, Management & InformtiaUon        1,986,895      835,300      827,920      463,200     4,113,315
I    Reform 1nrmation Module                      195,000       73,000       73,000       73,000      414,000
!    School 4I1nagement Training                 313.745       238.500      308.120       71,40)0     Y31.765
3    Organisation & Development Training         676.260       316,000      239.000       11.(00U    1.342.260
for Headquarters
4    Organisation & Development Training         801.890       207,800      207,800      207,800     1.425.290
for Provinces and Districts
g8 3        Data Information & Records Management        71,800        71,800       71,800       71,800      287,200
I 8 4       Financial Planning                           133,200      101,500       57,500       21,500      313,700
8 5        Other Activities (On-Going Programmes)      513,547       825,000      800,000            0     2,138,547
8    Total Programme Costs                            8,220,775    2,019,365    2,076,820      684,850    13,001,810
Financed by                                             513,547      825,000       800,000           0     2,138,5471
GRZ Budget                                        0            0            0            0             01
On-Going Projects                           513,547       825,000      800,000            0     2,138,547
UNICEF                                            0            0            0            0             0
USAID                                             0            0            0             0)          0)
Itish Aid                                    25,000        25,000           0            0        50.00t)
Netherlands                                       0            0            0            0             0
PAGE (Western Province)                           0            0            0            0             I
NORAD                                             0            0            0            0             0
REDD BARNA                                        0            0            0            I)            t1
EU                                          233,333       800.000      800,000           0      1,833.3331
DANIDA                                      255.214            0            0            0       255.214
DfiD                                              0            0            0            0             0
iLFinancing Gap                                   |   7,707,2281   1,194,3651    1,276,8201     684,8501  10,863,263



Armex 3
Page 15 of 15
External Financing Agencies - Ongoing Activities and Interest in BESSIP Components
Components       ADB  DANIDA   EU   DfID  Finland  ILO   Irish Aid  JICA   Netherlands  Norway  OPEC  SIDA   UNDP  UNICEF  USAII)  WFP
1. Program                                    x              x       x                  x          x
Management
2. Infrastructure      x                              x                       x                            x
3. Teacher                                                              
Development                  X             X                       X                 X
4. Educational                                                       x                  x          x
Materials
5. Capacity Building                    X
& Decentralization                                                         _                                    X       X
6. Curriculum                   X             X
Development         _ .
7. Equity / Gender                      x                                                          X                               X         X
8. School Health
& Nutrition                                                                                                                               X       X



Anr.ex 4
Page 1 of 4
Economic Analysis
Economic Benefits
The only analytical work on rates of return to education in Zambia has been done by a
team from the Centre for Labour Market and Social Research in Denmark.' This paper analyzes
data from the Priority Survey 1993, conducted by the Central Statistical Office.
Table 1: Education and Wages, 1993
Log(wage)
10.5
10
9.5
9
8
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16
Highest grade attained
All    - Males  ... Females * All     m Males      Females
Table I displays the relationship between educational attainment and wages, for wage
and salary earners (only about 15% of the adult population). As can be seen, education begins to
have earnings benefits only from Grade 5 onwards. Grades 5 and 7 are "high return grades".
The authors hypothesize that the low return to Grade 6 reflects a negative signal to employers
arising from persons leaving school just before the critical primary leaving examination. The
authros estimate that, ovrall the return for schooling below Grade 8 is 6%, while the return to
post-primary education is 17%. The authors note that the estimated return to primary education
is lower in Zambia than reported for other developing countries, and hypothesize that that this
reflects the generally low quality of primary education in much of Zambia.
Peter Jensen, Niels Westergard-Nielsen, Helena Skyt Nielsen, and Metter Keis Hanson, "Employment
and Earnings in Zambia in 1993".



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
One implication of these findings is that substantial resources are being wasted on school
attendance of children who drop out without completing primary education, having learned little.
The study by Central Statistics Office shows that the higher the level of education of the
household head, the lower the incidence of poverty.
Figure. xx Education attainment of the head of household and poverty incidence.
100
90
s0
701 -11 211   W                     [l11991
60                                           (Zambia: 69.7
IL 50
40         E1993 .
3,30                                           (Zambia: 73.8
A. 20-
Souce    2                                     01996   6.
S The Evolution of Poverty in Zambia 1991-1996. Table 10.3. CSO, GRZ. 1997.
Costs of Education
There are two major components to constitute costs of education: private and public costs.
Private costs is defined as the part of the investment in education which is incurred either by
students, parents and/or guardians to 'receive' the education service. The private costs mainly
consists of (a) direct costs borne by household including tuition fees and other costs such as
transport, workbook, PTA fees, etc.,. and (b) income foregone, or opportunity costs. Public costs
should include the spending by the central and local governmnent for education.
The table below summarizes the public and private costs for different levels of education. for the
primary education, the government spent $22 for each pupil per year, which is complemented by
significant spending of $17 by the household, making total cost of $39. Indirect costs of $49
represents the "opportunity cost" of foregone earnings. It is a useful demand-side indicator for
policy makers to design necessary tools of intervention.
Table 2. Public and private cost of education in Zambia., 1996. (1996 US$)
Primary  Secondary    Tertiary   Average
Public cost per enrollment      22          51      19201
Private cost per enrollment
direct costs                 17b          b. hge
indirect costs               492
Source: Helena Skyt Nielsen "Child Labor and Schooling in Zaprbia" Ch.5 in ...
Peter Jensen, et al. Employmnent and Earnings in Zambia in 1993
MOE, GRZ and staffestimates.



Annexr 4
Pagc 3 of 4
a. K20500/1200-S17.08 (1996) 'ETSER', WB.
b. see Tables 9.x ETSER
c. K26641/household for education (1996). WB/MOE 'Education Indicators, ...'
1. Before supplementary allocadon which may have increased this by about 80-1000/%.
2. Income forgone: K1920* 12mos=K23040 (1993) = K58595(1996) =S49 @K1200/K (Nielsen)
Demographic and Health Benefits of Education
The Zambia Demographic and Health Survey 1996 found that women with at least some
secondary education wished to have 3.9 children, on average, while women who had only
attended primary school wanted an average of 5.7 children, while women with no education
wished for 6.0 children on average.
The under-5 mortality rate was found to be 142 per thousand among under-S's whose
mothers had at least some secondary education, as compared with 201 per thousand among
under-5's with mothers having only primary education, and 222 among children of mothers with
no education. There was also a negative correlation between malnutrition indicators, and
mothers' educational attainment.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
Factors Affecting Primary School Attendance
A team of researchers headed by Dr. G. Lungwangwa from the University of Zambia,
and also including M. J. Kelly, G. N. Sililo, E. M. Silanda, H. Haantuba, J. Kanyika, J. Milimo,
and G. Hamaimbo has recently completed a study entitled "Basic Education for Some: Factors
Affecting Primary School Attendance in Zambia".
Following are some of the key findings:
"The major cause of the problem of poor school attendance is the little value
attached to education because its quality is perceived to be progressively
worsening by the year."
No change occurred in school attendance rates in the period 1990-96 (remaining
81% in urban areas and 63% in rural areas.
Children from poor families are not able to attend school because of high direct
and indirect costs. School uniforms, PTA levies, school fund, loss of family
income, are examples of some of these costs. Being very poor reduces the school
attendance rate by 6.8%.
* Distance to school is a problem in rural areas; each additional kilometer from
school decreases the attendance rate by 1.5%.
Girls' participation is adversely affected by household chores and income
generating activities.
Physical rehabilitation, enabling protection from rain among other benefits, has a
substantial positive impact on the learning environment, and stimulates both
student attendance and teacher motivation.
The research team recommended the following steps to improve school attendance:
Increase the "supply" of schools through construction and rehabilitation programs,
including multigrade and satellite schools in remote rural areas.
"Restoring the magnetic force of the school" by quality improvement measures
such as educational materials provision and teacher in-servicing.
Providing adequate transport to enable the inspectorate to monitor teaching and
learning at schools
Raising teacher's morale, especially in the rural areas, through improving
conditions of service.
Bursaries for girls and other disadvantaged children.
*     Establish school health programs.
The design of BESSIP is consistent with the analysis and recommendations of this study.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
Fiscal Analysis
The Current Macroeconomic and Fiscal Situation
1998 was been a recessionary year for the Zambian economy. This reflected declining
copper production due to "supply side" weaknesses arising from years of little investment, falling
world copper prices, and lack of balance-of-payments support from external financing agencies.
The Zamnbian Kwacha depreciated substantially, and inflation accelerated to almost 30%. Real
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to have contracted by about 2%.
Reflecting announcements on copper mining privatization, and other measures, the
Government has recently reached agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and
World Bank on a three-year macroeconomic and fiscal framework 1999-2001, to be supported by
a Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion (PSREP) adjustment Credit from the World Bank,
and an ESAF arrangement with the IMF. Real GDP growth is expected to be 4% in 1999,
accelerating to 5.5% by 2001. The program aims at reducing inflation to 15% by end- 1999 and
8% by end-2000. As inflation decelerates, kwacha depreciation is expected also to decelerate.
The Government is aiming at reducing its overall deficit (including grants) to about 1%
of GDP by the year 2000, in order to reduce monetary expansion while making more credit
available to the private sector. Strengthened tax administration is expected to result in raising the
revenue/GDP ratio by 1.5% of GDP over the medium term. Taking into account the deficit and
revenue objectives, the Central Government's supply expenditure is programmed to be in the
range of 19-20% of GDP during 1999-2001.
The Current and Prospective Ministry of Education Budget in this Context
As indicated in Table A, Ministry of Education expenditure has been about 3.0% of GDP
in recent years, which is too low to enable achievement of the Government's objectives for the
education sector.
According to the Government's printed Budget Estimates for 1999, the Ministry of
Education's initial budget for 1999 is 235 billion kwacha, of which 178 billion is GRZ financing,
with the balance coming from external sources. However, MoE expenditure for 1999 is likely to
ultimately be considerably higher, as shown in Table A for three reasons:
The Government budget for 1999 includes 75 billion kwacha for a wage adjustment to
address the loss of public employee's purchasing power arising from the 30% inflation of
1998. If it is assumed that MoE's share of the wage adjustment would be the same as its
share (19%) of MoE supply expenditures, then GRZ financing for MoE would increase to
192 billion kwacha. (The allocation of this wage adjustment to the ministries accounts
for the 75 billion increase in supply expenditure from the "initial budget 1999" column.)
The kwacha value of existing aid commitments to MoE has been understated in the
budget because of outdated exchange rate assumptions from budget preparation in the
third quarter of 1998. MoE is expecting $33 million of aid-financed BESSIP
expenditures in 1999, which is equivalent to 79 billion kwacha at current exchange rate
assumptions.
During the course of 1999, MoE will receive new financing from the IDA Credit, and
from some other cooperating partners.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Table A Zambia - Ministry of Education and Central Government Expenditure
Prelim.  Estimated   Initial   Projected Projected I Projected
1997      1998     Budget    1999       2000       2001
1999
(in billions of kwacha)
Domestically Finan. Supply Expenditure    737  860       939        1014      1147      1348
of which: Ministry of Education   124       161       178        192       227       276
Expenditure Finan. By External Project Aid  320  567     666        666       631      685
of which: Ministry of Education   25        53        57         120       145       157
Total Supply Expenditure             1057     1427       1605       1680      1778     2033
of which: Ministry of Education   149       205       235        312       372       433
Nonsupply Expenditure                236      298        515        440       470       500
Total Expenditure                    1293     1725       2120       2120      2248     2533
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
Domestically Finan. Supply Expenditure    552  491       391        423       434      1481
of which: Ministry of Education   93        92        74         80        86        99
Expenditure Finan. By External Project Aid  240  324     278        278       239       245
of which: Ministry of Education   19        30        24         50        55        56
Total Supply Expenditure             792      815        669        700       673      726
of which: Ministry of Education   112       117       98         130       141       155
Nonsupply Expenditure                177       170       215        183       178       179
Total Expenditure                    969      986        883        883       852       905
Analytical Ratios:
Domestically Fin. Supply Exp. (MoE)/  16.8%  18.7%     19.0%     19.0%     19.8%     20.5%
Domestically Fin. Supply Exp. (Total)
Total MoE Expenditure / GDP       2.8%      3.2%      3.0%       3.9%      4.0%      4.2%
MoE External Aid / MoE Total Expenditure  16.8%  25.6%   24.3%      38.4%     39.0%    36.2%
(%)
MoE External Aid/Total Ext Project Aid(%) 7.8%  9.3%     8.6%       18.0%     23.0%    22.9%
Memorandum Items:
ZK/US$                            1334      1750      2400       2400               _
Nominal GDP (ZK billions)         5352      6332      7954       7954      9251      10284
As a consequence of the increased resources available to the Ministry of Education, MoE
expenditure is projected to increase from 3.0% of GDP in recent years, to at least 4.0% of GDP.
The share of the Ministry's expenditure financed by external aid is expected to increase to about
35%. MoE's share of the total external project aid available to Zambia is expected to roughly
double from 10% to 20%.
Intrasectoral Allocation of Expenditure
For 1998, the intra-sectoral distribution of total MoE expenditure (including external aid)
is estimated roughly as follows: primary teaching/learning/readiness, 48%; primary school



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
infrastructure, 14%; primary teacher training, 5%; secondary education, 11%; university, 12%;
administration of the education system, 7%; other purposes, 3%. Those activities which are
defined as being within BES SIP (all except secondary, university, and secondary teacher training)
account for 74% of estimated expenditure.
In the Policy Statement, the Government has stated its intention to devote at least 60% of
GRZ financing for the Ministry of Education to "primary schools" (the term appearing in the
printed budget). This refers to teachers' personal emoluments and Recurrent Departmental
Charges.
Quantitative Framework
The costs to achieve the Government's UPE objective have not yet been adequately
assessed, and there will be a need for a financing strategy to meet those costs, within the overall
macroeconomic framework. The Ministry of Education will develop a quantitative framework
for analyzing enrollments, unit costs, total costs, and sector financing, for use in policy analysis.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
Procurement and Financial Management
Applicability of the Procedures Described in this Annex
This annex describes the agreed procurement and financial management procedures for
works, goods, and services to be financed from the IDA Credit, as a minimum.
A draft BESSIP Procurement and Financial Procedures Manual (PFPM) was submitted by
MoE to the Bank before negotiations. Bank staff comments on it, including suggestions for
elaboration of the PFPM, have been given to MoE. Comments from other cooperating partners are
also being solicited by MoE.
While the procedures set out in the PFPM, and reflected in this Annex, would, at a minimum,
be utilized for activities financed from the IDA Credit, it is intended that the Manual should be either
directly suitable for, or adaptable to, support provided by other cooperating partners under Cases 1,
2, and 3 (see page 7 on this Annex).
Procurement
General. Procurement of goods, works and services to be financed from the Credit will be
carried out on the basis Annual Procurement Plans agreed with the Bank. The Procurement Plan will
include relevant information on all goods, works, consulting services and training under the Project,
as well as timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The draft Procurement Plan will be
part of the draft Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB) for the forthcoming year, submitted to
the Bank and other cooperating partners for each November Semi-Annual Review. The AWPB will
be discussed among MoE, the Bank, and other cooperating partners no later than December 15 of
each year, with the Procurement Plan for activities to be financed from the IDA Credit to be agreed
between MoE and the Bank.
As an exception, for the initiation of the IDA Credit in support of BESSIP, a draft two-year
Procurement Plan for 1999-2000 has been submitted by MoE to the Bank in February 1999.
Procurement of goods and works to be financed from the Credit will be in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), and procurement of
Consulting Services by firms or individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999). A General Procurement Notice (GPN) for BESSIP
has been prepared, and will appear in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in at
least one Zambian newspaper in March 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will
be used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Institutional Arrangements. Procurement will be undertaken under the general supervision
of the Management Implementation Team, headed by its chairperson. Each component manager will
be responsible for identifying procurement needs under that component. Common equipment needs
across components will be reviewed for possible consolidation into procurement packages. There will
be three units primarily responsible for carrying out procurement activity:



Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
The MoE Procurement and Supplies Unit (MEPSU) will be responsible for
procurement of textbooks, educational materials, equipment, vehicles, supplies and
consulting services. MEPSU will be assisted by a technical assistant Procurement
Specialist (PS), for a period of 12 months, expected to be July 1999 - June 2000. The
PS's major tasks will include detailed procurement planning, participating in the
finalization of the Procurement and Financial Procedures Manual, preparation of bidding
documents, advising on the bid evaluation process.
* The Microprojects Unit (MPU) attached to the Ministry of Finance and Economnic
Development, which has been implementing community-based demand driven activities
with IDA financing under the first and second Social Recovery Projects since 1991 (and
with EU financing for an even longer period of time), will be responsible for community-
based demand-driven activities. Procurement under this modality will be undertaken on
the basis of the Community Participation procedures already agreed with the Bank in the
context of the Second Social Recovery Project, and reflected in the SRP Implementation
Manual. Before any disbursements are made under Category 1 (a), grants for
microprojects, MoE and MPU will sign a Memorandum of Understanding concerning
their respective responsibilities in relation to community-based activities financed from
the Credit.
* MoE's School Infrastructure Section (SIS) will concentrate on arranging for and
supervising School Mapping; arranging targeted contracted works activities in those
locations (a minority) where the demand-driven approach is found to be infeasible,
because of extreme poverty or low population density; and on monitoring all school
construction activities in Zambia, including those implemented through MPU.
Procurement Monitoring and Evaluation: MEPSU will monitor all procurement-related
information for project implementation, and provide reports on activity relating to each district to
District Education Officers in addition to the MIT. Such monitoring will provide information on the
procurement methods, nature and amount of contracts procured through each method, number and
amount of contracts subject to prior review by the Bank, and number of beneficiary communities that
have been directly contracted to execute works. The management and actual status of all procurement
will be reflected in the quarterly reports which wx ill be submitted to the Bank.
Procurement Methods (See also Table I and 2)
Civil Works: Majority of the construction and rehabilitation activities involving
classrooms, teacher's houses etc. will be carried out by Community Participation methods in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and described in the SRP Implementation
Manual. Under the Community Participation method, procurement of materials and labor is the
responsibility of the beneficiary Project Committee. The MPU Regional Officers, with the assistance
of District Building Officers from the Ministry of Education: (i) provide the community with
standardized designs, and market prices from a databank; (ii) monitor contracts entered into by the
communities at the local level and, when asked, assist the communities undertaking the tendering
process for materials and goods to be procured by the communities; and (iii) arrange for technical
supervision of the works. Each micro-project under this category will not exceed US$ 100,000
equivalent (about 25% of which will be Community contribution).



Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
The other category under civil works will be targeted, contracted activities in locations
where community-based demand driven approach is not feasible, and where grouping of certain
works will be cost beneficial (e.g. borehole drilling). Contracts under this category will be mostly
small and scattered across the country, many of which will be in rural areas. It is unlikely, therefore,
most contracts will attract international bidders. ICB is, therefore, not anticipated.
Contracts under targeted contracted activities, costing less than the equivalent of
US$S50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent will be procured
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of
the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the
contractor who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they
have the experience and the resources to complete the contract successfullv.
Targeted contracted activities estimated to cost US$50,000 or more, where sufficient
competition could be expected to be available, will be procured using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures. Prior to initiating the procurement process under NCB, the draft NCB
document shall be submitted to IDA for review and approval. The approved document shall be used
for all works procurements under NCB, subject to appropriate modifications under "Bid Data Sheet"
and "Special Conditions of Contract.
Goods, Equipment and Educational Materials. Goods, equipment and educational
materials to be procured would include vehicles, office equipment, fumiture, computers, printers, text
and library books. Goods(vehicles and motor cycles) and Educational Materials estimated at US$ 7.0
million equivalent, will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following the
Bank guidelines and using Bank Standard Bidding Documents with appropriate modifications.
Minimum value of each package would be no less than US$100,000 equivalent. Procurement of
office and information technology equipment, and classroom furniture, valued at less than US$
100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding. Small quantities of goods, which are normally
available off-the-shelf at competitive prices and are estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent
per contract may be procured through IAPSO (UNDP) and/or by Shopping procedures in accordance
with the Guidelines.
Bursaries. The EU is financing a pilot bursaries program. The Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services (MCDSS) is also providing bursaries through the Public Welfare
Assistance Scheme. At negotiations, it was agreed to include a notional allocation in the IDA Credit
for bursaries. Before any disbursements are made under Category 5 (bursaries), a report on the
administration of the current bursaries scheme will have been submitted to the Bank, and the Bank
should be satisfied that the proposed selection and payment procedures are adequate.
Costs to be Financed from the Credit, by Procurement Arrangement. The IDA Credit
can be used for any component of BESSIP. In order to reserve some of the IDA Credit to be used
flexibly to meet needs for which the Government will be seeking grant aid, not all of which may
materialize, only about $29.5 rmillion (74%/o) of the Credit was allocated at Negotiations to specific
Categories of new expenditure, with $10.0 million (25%) reserved in the Unallocated Category, and
$0.5 million (1%) to be devoted to refunding of the Project Preparation advance.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
Table 1 Costs to be Financed from the Credit, by Procurement Arrangement
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method               Total Cost
(in US$ million equivalent)
ICB          NCB         Other"
la. Community-Based Civil Works         -                  14,300,000     14,300,000
lb. Contractor-Based Civil Works              4,200,000                    4,200,000
2. Goods, including Vehicles,   1,800,000      2,000,000                   3,800,000
Equipment and Furniture
3. Consultant Services, Training        -             -   1,400,000        1,400,000
and Workshops
4. Educational Materials        4,900,000                                  4,900,000
5. Bursaries                                           .    140,000          140,000
6. Incremental Operating Costs          -             -    700,000           700,000
SubTotal                        6,700,000      6,200,000   16,540,000     29,440,000
Unallocated and PPF Refund                                                10,560,000
Total IDA Credit                                                          40,000,000
Other includes: International or National Shopping; Community Participation method; Consultant Services; and
costs for training, workshops, and study tours.
Consultant Services
The plans for consultant services to be financed from the IDA Credit, summarized in
Table 2, have taken into account services being financed by other cooperating partners (not shown in
Table 2), in areas such as pre-service teacher training (Danida), in-service teacher training (DflD),
and financial planning (EU). At this time, it is planned that the Credit will finance the services of
three individual consultants - an infrastructure advisor, a finance manager, and a procurement
specialist - and also the services of firms for audit, and for civil works supervision.
Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Emplovment of Consultants, published in January 1997, and revised in September 1997
and January 1999. The standard Request for Proposals (RFP) and Form of Contract as developed by
the Bank will be used for appointment of consultants to be financed from the Credit. All consultant
services will be selected through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) (Guidelines, Section II),
unless otherwise specified.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
Table 2 Consultant Selection Arrangements
Selection Method                     Total Cost
QCBS      QBS  I  SFB   I  LCS         CQ      Other
(in US$ equivalent)
A. Firms                                   500,000            200,000    700,000
B. Individuals                                                300,000    300,000
Total                                      500,000            500,000   1,000,000
Notes: QCBS - Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  - Quality-Based Selection
SFB   - Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  - Least-Cost Selection
CQ    - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other - Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
Consultants for financial audits and services, and civil works supervision (refer to Table 2),
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 500,000
will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms based on the Least Cost
Selection (LCS) method - the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical
proposal received the minimum mark required (Guidelines, para. 3.6).
Single Source Selection (SSS) (Guidelines, paras. 3.8-3.11) will be exceptionally used for
very small (short term) assignments estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract
up to an aggregate of US$ 200,000 equivalent, where a rapid selection is required and/or only one
firm/individual is qualified.
The services of the infrastructure advisor, a finance manager, and a procurement specialist
will be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with Section V of
the Guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds (See Table 3)
Civil Works (all categories). All contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or
above per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. Bidding documents, evaluation reports,
and contracts will be submitted to IDA for approval. The first five contracts valued between
US$50,000 and US$250,000 will be reviewed by IDA to ensure that procurement has been carried
out in accordance with agreed procedures. In addition, the first five Financing Agreements under
community-based activities (microprojects) costing below $100,000 will be reviewed by IDA for
approval.
Goods and Equipment. All contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or above
will be subject to prior review by IDA. Bidding documents, evaluation reports, and contracts will be
submitted to IDA for approval.
Consulting Services. For all consultant services, IDA's prior review and approval of terms
of reference, short list(s), budgets, selection procedures and criteria, letters of invitation, evaluation
reports and contracts will be required.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
All contracts with values below the thresholds established for prior review will be subject to
ex-post review by IDA on a sample basis. All contract documentation will be retained by MoE or
MPU, and made available to IDA for ex-post review upon request.
Table 3 Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category      Contract Value    Procurement Method  Contracts Subject to Prior
(Threshold)                                Review
la. Community - Based Civil   < $100,000       community          First 5 Financing
Works                                       participation     Agreements
> $100,000 and    NCB                First five contracts and all
< $500,000                           contracts above $250,000.
lb. Contractor - Based Civil    < $50,000      three quotations   First 5 contracts
Works                    > $50,000 and      NCB               First five contracts
< $500,000                           $50,000 to $100,000, and
all contracts above
$250,000.
>$500,000         ICB                All (however, none
expected)
2. Goods, including         <$30,000           Shopping           post-review
Vehicles, Equipment and    $30,000-$100,000    NCB            All
Furniture                >$100,000         ICB                All
3. Consultant Services, and  >$50,000          Bank Guidelines    All
Training                                                          .-
4. Educational Materials    $30,000-$100,000   NCB                All
>$100,000         ICB                All
5. Bursaries                                                      Post-Review
N.B. All terms of reference for consulting services will be subject to IDA's prior review.
Training and Workshops
MoE shall carry out all training, workshops, and study tours under the Project on the basis of
quarterly programs to be approved by the Bank, identifying: (a) the training, workshops and study
tours envisaged; (b) the persons to be trained; (c) the institutions which will conduct the training; and
(d) cost estimates.
Proposed Financial Management Arrangements
Background. The current accounting system within the ministry is generally manual, and
follows the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) coding system. There are various
computing facilities available including the data entry of expenditure details for interface with the
GRZ mainframe computing facilities at the Ministry of Finance; however, the use of these facilities is
not coordinated and formalized and is on an ad-hoc basis. Management information provided by the
system is minimal and is mainly biased towards satisfying the monthly expenditure returns to the
Ministry of Finance. The accounting staff in the Ministry of Education do not have higher-level
professional qualifications.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
The existing system has in the past proved inadequate in providing timely and reliable
financial information, and would not be adequate to provide timely, understandable, relevant and
reliable financial information to meet the requirements of the Bank, and of external financing agencies
with financial reporting requirements comparable to the Bank's.
Joint Appraisal Mission (September 1998). The Joint Appraisal mission recognized that the
resources available to the Ministry of Education, in addition to GRZ funding in the form of recurrent
expenditures and capital grants, included external support provided under through following
financing modalities:
*  Case 1 (Pooling arrangements). Funds will be controlled by the Ministry of Education
under the direction of the MIT, and will be available for all the BES SIP components. The
funds from the various donors will be pooled into one common bank account in foreign
currency from which drawdowns in the local currency will be made as need arises.
*  Case 2. Funds are controlled by the Ministry of Education and will be available for all
BESSIP components based on agreed arrangements. The funds are to be maintained in
separate identifiable bank accounts, and reported on to justify replenishment. This
arrangement addresses the World Bank's requirements and those of other multilateral
lenders such as the African Development Bank.
*  Case 3 (Specific components). Funds will be controlled by the Ministry of Education, but
will only be available for financing specific components under BESSIP. The funds will
be kept in separate identifiable bank accounts. This arrangement satisfies certain external
cooperating partners who want their funds to be used only for one component or a
restricted number of components under BESSIP.
*  Case 4 refers to funds controlled by external cooperating partners rather than MoE, and
typically available for limited numbers of activities within the ministry. A number of
these are already on the ground. This is recognized as the least preferred case.
The Joint Appraisal recognized Case I as the ideal financing modality. However, attention
was drawn to the fact that financial management capacity needed to be strengthened to convince
certain external financing agencies, while others had legislative or policy restrictions (unrelated to
Zambia) on financing modalities.
The Joint Appraisal also reached agreement on a format for reporting on Overall BESSIP
Expenditures.
Financial Management Arrangements in the Context of BESSIP. As indicated elsewhere
in this report, BESSIP expenditures are about 70% of MoE expenditures. Various elements of
BESSIP expenditures - teachers' salaries; Recurrent Departmental Charges (RDCs); external
resources controlled by MoE; external resources not controlled by MoE - are controlled in different
ways.
A financial management specialist (technical assistance) has been contracted by MoE to
prepare the finance part of the draft BESSIP Procurement and Financial Procedures Manual. This
Manual will, among other things: (a) describe the existing arrangements for control of funds for the
various elements of BESSIP expenditures; (b) prescribe arrangements for the management of funds
(Case 2) to be provided by IDA in the context of the new IDA Credit in support of BESSIP;



Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
(c) prescribe arrangements for the other Cases (Cases 1 and 3) under control of the Ministry of
Education; (d) set out how reporting to donors on overall BESSIP expenditures will be done.
MoE will employ a qualified Finance Manager to control and report on funds provided by
IDA in support of BESSIP. To assist the BESSIP Finance Manager, support staff with relevant
accounting qualifications and experience, and computer skills, will be required.
Arrangements Applicable to Funds Provided by Cooperating Partners under Cases 1, 2,
and 3. The various bank accounts mentioned above will be maintained at the central level within the
ministry headquarters, and managed by the BESSIP Finance Manager. The flow of funds thereafter
to either the BESSIP components or the District Education Boards is expected to be demand driven.
Various procurement arrangements have been identified, and the flow of funds will be dictated by
these procurement arrangements. Certain activities such as the procurement of motor vehicles and
computers were identified as items which can economically be procured centrally; district driven
activities would be handled through District Education Boards (DEBs) , while community driven
activities are expected to be handled by the Social Recovery Project in the Micro-Projects Unit of the
Ministry of Finance.
Procurement arrangements are currently highly centralized, and, due to lack of training and
capacity at the districts, decentralization of procurement and financial management responsibilities to
DEBs will need to be carefully phased.
A common financial reporting arrangement was agreed upon to be distributed to all the
donors every quarter and to be used also in the Semi-Annual Progress Reports leading into the Semi-
Annual Reviews. The format of the report is to identify the various sources of funds and the
utilization of these funds by the major components forming BESSIP.
The GRZ accounting system is on cash basis and BESSIP is expected to follow this system.
This means therefore that funds will be recognized on receipt and expenditures recognized once paid.
Under the Constitution of Zambia, the Public Audit Act, and the Finance (Control and
Management) Act, the Auditor General is mandated to audit the accounts of the Ministry. In practice,
however, the Auditor General has sometimes appointed private auditing firms to act on his behalf,
with the audit reports being addressed to him.
Arrangements Applicable to Funds Provided by IDA Specifically. The Bank's new
requirements concerning management of funds provided by IDA are set out in the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Handbook. The objective is to enable disbursements to be
made four times a year, on the basis of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) provided by
the Borrower. Each Project Management Report includes: (a) Financial Statements; (b) Project
Progress Reports linking physical and financial indicators; (c) Procurement Management Reports.
The LACI Handbook provides that
"For projects with adequate internal controls and accounting systems that are not able to
produce the required level of reports.... existing disbursement procedures will be followed.
While the loan will proceed without delay, a time-bound action plan for strengthening the
financial management system to achieve PMR-based disbursement will be put in place.
During the interim period these projects will be expected to produce the following PMR
statements - Financial Statement - Report IA and Section 3 - Procurement Management
reports."



Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
The IDA Credit for BESSIP will follow traditional disbursement procedures through the end
of 2000, while MoE's financial management system is being strengthened. Beginning with the first
quarter of calendar year 2000, disbursements will be based on PMRs.
The utilization of funds provided from the Credit will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Credit
Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw
proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented, except for contracts each costing less
than the equivalent of: (i) US$250,000 for civil works; (ii) US$100,000 for goods, including
equipment, vehicles, furniture and educational materials; (iii) US$100,000 for consulting firms; and
(iv) US$50,000 for individual consultants, training, studies, workshops and study tours which may be
claimed on the basis of Certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOE's would be retained at MOE and will be available for review as
requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures, GRZ will open a special account (SA)
in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currencies of IDA's share of eligible expenditures.
The authorized allocation for the special account would be US$3,000,000, covering an estimated four
months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon loan effectiveness or as needed, amounts of
US$1,000,000 would be deposited in the special account. Subsequent deposits may be requested as
needed not exceeding the total authorized amount of US$3,000,000. Replenishment applications
should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly bank statements are received and
reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as required. To
the extent possible, all of IDA's share of eligible expenditures should be paid through the SA.
Table 4 Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount          Disbursement Percentage
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works
I a. Community-demand         14.3          100% of grants from MPU
lb. Contractor-based           4.2          100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
2. Goods, including Equipment,   3.8          100% of foreign expenditures
Vehicles and Furniture                       90% of local expenditures
3. Consultants' Services and     1.4          100%
Training
4. Educational Materials         4.9          100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
5. Bursaries                     0.1          100%
6. Incremental Operating Costs   0.7          100%
7. Refund of PPF advance         0.5
8. Unallocated                  10.0
Total                           40.0



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Program Processing Budget and Schedule
Program Preparation Budget ($000)                 Planned                 Actual
ESIP (Nov. 94-June 97)                              928                    1015
BESSIP (July 97-Sep. 98)                            687                     642
Total                                              1615                    1657
Of which: Bank Administrative Budget            566                      684
PHRD (TF023005)                             459                     5892/
PHRD (TF029562)                             590                     3443/
Project Schedule                     Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   12                       17
(47 including ESIP)
First Bank niission (identification)        May 1997                  May 1, 1997
Appraisal mission departure                 April 1998                September 12, 1998
Negotiations                                December 1998             January 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness               May 1999                  May 1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: PPF, Trust Funds (TF023005, TF029562), Cofinancing partners including
Danida, DFID, EU, Finida, Irish Aid, JICA, Netherlands, NORAD, USAID, ADB, OPEC Fund,
and UNICEF
Bank Staff Who Worked On The Project Included:
Name                                      Specialty
ESIP Task Team
Alan Dock                              Sr. Education Specialist (Task Manager), AFTH1
Janet Leno                             Sr. Education Specialist, AFMGH
Soren Nellemann                        Consultant (Economist), AFTH 1
Wim Alberts                            Consultant (Vocational Education)
Alexandria Valerio                     Consultant (Basic Education)
Jack Cresswell                         Consultant (Skills Training)
Leo Sinke                              Consultant (Architect)
Kevin Brown                            Consultant (Management)
BESSIP Task Team (since April, 1997)
Bruce Jones                            Sr. Economist (Task Team Leader), AFITHI
Patrick Murphy                         Sr. Education Specialist, AFTH1
Brighton Musungwa                      Financial Management Specialist, AFMZM
Kazuhiro Yoshida                       Human Resources Economist, AFTH3
Soren Nellemann                        Consultant (Economist), AFTH1
Clement Siamatowe                      Operations Officer, AFMZM
Minneh Karanja Kane                    Sr. Counsel, LEGAF
Steve Gaginis                         Disbursement Officer, LOAAF



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Name                                     Specialty
Extended BESSIP Team
Jorgen Christensen                    Education Management, Swedish Embassy
Eero Nurminen                         Education Management, Finnish Ministiy of Education
Esa Paaso                             Consultant (Infrastructure), FINNIDA
Ritva Kattelus                        Consultant (Instructional Materials), FINNIDA
Colin W. Robinson                     Consultant (Teacher Development), DFID
Peggy Chibuye                         Consultant (School Health), USAID
Mark Cohen                            Consultant (Instructional Materials), WB
Michael Kelly                         Consultant (Equity), WB
Leo Sinke                             Consultant (Architect), WB
Quality Assurance Team/Peer Reviewers
Adriaan Verspoor                      Lead Education Specialist, AFTH3
Jacomina De Regt                      Manager (Peer Reviewer), HRSO1
Peter Moock                           Principal Economist, EASED
Jee-Peng Tan                          Principal Economist, HDNED
Surendra Agarwal                      Manager, OS, AFTSI
Tony Hegarty                          Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist, AFTS 1
V. S. Krishnakumar                    Procurement Specialist, AFTS 1



Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Documents in the Program File
Education Sub-sector Investment Program (ESIP)
1.    Investing in Our People, Policy Framework, March 1996
2.    Expand Access to Basic Education, Classroom Construction and Rehabilitation, ESIP
Secretariat, March 1997
3.    Improvement in Basic Education Quality, Improving Teacher Education and Conditions of
Service, March 1997
4.    System Support, Sector Structure. Capacity Building and Management, April 1997
5.    Improvement in Basic Education Quality, School Health and Nutrition, April 1997
6.    Improvement to Basic Education Quality, Provision of Instructional Materials, March
1997
7.    Expanding Access to Basic Education, Community. Multigrade, Private (Commercial) and
Other Non-Government Agency Schools, March 1997
8.    Expanding Access to Basic Education, Education for the Out of School Children and
Youth, March 1997
9.    Report of the Zambia Reading Aporaisal Team, Constable, Linehan, Muyebaa, Mwale,
Musuku, Nakaona, Tambulukani, Williams, October 1996
10.   Refocus on Literacy: Proposal for a Pilot Literacy Programme in Zambia, April 1997
I1.   Guidelines for the ESIP Design Tea, December 1996
12.   Component: Strengthening Skills Training. Sub-Component: Provision of
Entrepreneurship Training, Ng'andwe, April 1997
13.   Strengthening Skills Training, Strengthen Formal Skills Training Institutions, March 1997
14.   Strengthening Skills Training, Expand and Improve Non-formal Skills Training, March
1997
Basic Education Subsector Investment Program
1.    Education in Equitv, Kelly, November 1997
2.    School Health and Nutrition Component, Ministry of Education, 1997
3.    Instructional Materials, Cohen, November 1997
4.    Teacher Development and Deployment, Chiputa, Wood Robinson, November 1997
5.    Report of the Classroom Construction and Rehabilitation Team, November 1997
6.    Comments and Revised Report on Classroom Construction and Rehabilitation, Mwange
and Members of Zambia Education Project Implementation Unit, January 1998
7.    Examinations Council of Zambia Grade 4 Project, Sutherland, Alex, June 1997



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
8.    Education and Training Sector Expenditure Review, World Bank, November 1996
9.    IR4. Improved Health and Educational Performance of Pupils, Especially Girls,
Strickland, USAID, January 1998
10.   Back To Office/Issues Paper, Murphy Jones, World Bank, June 1997
11.   Quality of Primary Education in Zambia: Some Policy Suggestions Based on a National
Survey of Schools, Nkamba, Manasseh and Kanyika, February 1998
12.   Logframe. Project Implementation Plan, Programme Costs, July 1998



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Status of Bank Group Operations in Zambia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                          diabursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 56
Active Projects
ZM-PE-3251      1992   GOVERNMENT                        PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS                     0.00       10.00        0.00           .94         .59        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-3221      1993   GOVT                             MKTG. a PROCESS.                          0.00       33.00        0.00        13.05        11.00        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-3258      1994   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    FINANCIAL X LEGAL MA                     0.00       18.00        0.00         5.92         4.35        4.72      s           S
ZM-PE-3252      1994   GOVT                              PETROLEUM REHAB                          0.00       30.00        0.00        25.38        19.94        2.04      S           U
ZM-PE-3241      1995   GOZ                               URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                     0.00       33.00        0.00        16.29          .16       -2.13      S           S
ZM-PE-3239      1995   GOVT                              HEALTH SECTOR                            0.00       56.00        0.00        34.99       28.37         0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-3218      1995   GOVT.                            AGRICULTURE SECTOR I                      0.00       60.00        0.00        36.32       23.61         0.00      S           U
ZM-PE-3210      1995   GOVT                              SOCIAL RECOVERY II                       0.00       30.00        0.00         5.90         4.49        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-40642    1996                                      ERIPTA                                   0.00       23.00        0.00         8.28         4.47        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-44324     1997   REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA                ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                     0.00       45.00        0.00        41.87         9.78        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-3253      1997   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    ENVIRONMENT                              0.00       12.80        0.00        12.27         2.06        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-35076     1998                                     POWER REHAB                              0.00       75.00        0.00        76.38         8.90        0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-3236      1998   GOVT                              NATIONAL ROAD                            0.00       70.00        0.00        68.81         2.81        0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                             0.00      495.80        0.00       346.40       120.53        4.63
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 140.50            2,017.22            2,157.72
of which has been repaid:                   0.00             564.68              564.68
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 495.80            1,403.08            1,898.88
Amount sold                      :                0.00               28.58               28.58
Of which repaid               :                0.00               28.58               28.58
Total Undisbursed                :              346.40                1.49              347.89
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 10
Zambia at a glance                                                                  Page 1 of 1
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan     Low-
Zambia    Africa  income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millIons)                      9.4      614     2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  380       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS bIilons)                      3.6      309       722
Average annual growth, 199197
Population (%)                                       2.7      2.7       2.1     GNGrs
Labor force (X)                                      2.8      2.6       2.3     GNP                            Gro
per                           primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 199197)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  86
Urban population (% of total population)             44        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     43        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            113        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           29                 61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               43        44        71
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                 .22        43       47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  89      75        91               Zambia
Male                                               92        82       100                 Low-income group
Female                                             86        67       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS bilions)                           2.7      1.7       3.4      4.0
Gross domestic investmenVGDP               31.5    23.8       14.9     15.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP          43.3    42.2      33.0      29.8                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 36.4    22.1        8.9      9.1
Gross national savings/GDP                 27.0      1.3       2.3      3.8                      I
Current account balance/GDP                -4.5   -22.5    -12.6    -11.4       Domestic                   Inv
Interest payments/GDP                       2.5      4.2      2.2       1.4                                Investment
Total debt/GDP                             69.2   345.2    212.0    168.4       Savings
Total debt service/exports                 16.1    50.9       21.7     19.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                    149.9
Present value of debt/exports                               447.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.2    -0.2       6.4       3.5      5.5                  Zambba
GNP per capita                    -3.3    -2.8       5.1       2.5      3.3                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services     -4.2    -0.7   -17.1        3.8       6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                15.5    13.6      20.2      18.1
Indusiry                                   44.3    49.4      46.3      46.2
Manufacturing                             15 7    25.2      33.0      34.0 _
Services                                   40.2    37.0      33.5      35.6            92   93      s         D       97
Private consumption                        38.4    51.0      78.5      80.1   .so
General government consumption             25.2    26.9       12.6     10.8              -GDI           e*GDP
Imports of goods and services              38.4    43.9      39.0      35.7
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987497     1996      1997     Growth rtes of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 0.9    -0.5       28.7     -6.5    75
Industry                                   -0.3    -0.9       2.7       3.8    so
Manufacturing                              1.2     1.0       2.5       7.0    250
Services                                   -1.3    -0.6        2.4     10.4
Private consumption                         1.7      0.5      10.5      5.1   -25    92             C7
General govemment consumption              -1.3    -5.8    -16.8        4.5
Gross domestic investment                  -6.1      0.4      11.2      4.6   -so
Imports of goods and services              -6.9    -2.3    -17.6       11.8                 Export      lmports
Gross national product                     -0.1      0.1       8.0      5.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. I data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 14
The Government's Basic Education Sub-Sector Investment Program
Statement on Education Policy Im  eentation During 1999-2002
T'elephone: LUIJSw2542631250481          .    )                        I vply p!C
MmLEX ZA 42221
.........................
.5' 25S494                            ,,@e >
Velegrams. FPINANCE RIDGEWAY
RfEPUBLC OF ."AIMBIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOI AENT
OPFICE OF I IE MINISTER
' 0. BOX 50062'
MFAL/ 102/12/909                                                  RIf EEW.Y, 15101.
CHi LA-NGA ROAD
February 15, 1999                                                         LUSMUA
Mr Callisto Madavo
Vice President                                                    -      -
African Region
The World Bank                                                      ; ';..
Washington DC C.    -
Dear Mr Madavo                                                     --    _
Re: FUNDING FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR INVESTMENT
PROGRAMME (BESSIP)
I am writing to you following the successfuil negotiations for an IDA Credit for the Basic
Education Sub-Sector Investment Programme (BESSIP) which took place between
January 27 and February 5, 1999.
BESSIP is the Government's National Programme for Basic Education. It represents a
shift in the conceptual framework from the traditional approach in which individual
external cooperating partners have supported education through projects which they often
managed themselves. In the case of BESSIP, external cooperating partners have been
invited to participate in its design and financing=.
The Joint Appraisal which took place in Lusaka last September, resulting in a Joint
Appraisal Report, was a milestone in the process of defining more sharply the BESSIP
objectives and strategies, implementation modalities, and modalities of support from
cooperating partners. The coordination of cooperating partners will be continued through
the Joint Steering Committee mechanism under the leadership of the Ministry of
Education. Semi-Annual reviews of BESSIP, involving all cooperating partners, will take
place in May and November of each year.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 14
We have agreed with you that IDA support for BESSIP will be provided through the
Adaptable Programme Lending (APL) instrument, with two APLs envisaged to support
BESSIP over the period 1999-2005.
Please find enclosed Educating Our Future: National Policy on Education (1996), which
provides my Government's long-term vision for the development of the education sector,
which will govern the policies for the seven year period up to the year 2005. I also
enclose our "Statement on Education Policy Implementation 1999-2002" which sets out
the policies to be implemented during the medium-term period when the first APL will be
in effect.
I look forward to your continued support to BESSIP.
Yours sincerely,
Eth Z NawaS wi, Ne
MPINSTER OF FINANCE & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



-                                                                           Annex 11
Page 3 of 14
STATEMENT ON EDUCATION POLICY IMPLEMENTATION DURING
1999-2002
1.    The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) is seeking new financing
commitments from cooperating partners in support of its Basic Education Sub-
sector Investment Program (BESSIP). In this context, the purpose of this
Statement is to set out the policies and measures the Government intends to
implement in the education sector, with special reference to basic education,
during the period 1999-2002. This Statement is derived from the National
Policy on Education: Educating Our Future (1996).
2.    As progress is made in the implementation of the measures set out in this
statement, reports will be submitted by the Ministry of Education to cooperating
partners for the Semi-Annual Review meetings.
1. Current Situation
3.    Up until 1996, the education cycle consisted of seven years of primary education,
five years of secondary education, and four years of higher education (7-5-4-). In
the new National Policy on Education, government adopted a new system in
which every Zambian child would have at least nine years of basic education
organized as follows: Grades 1-4 (lower basic) Grades 5-7 (middle basic) Grades
8-9 (upper basic) Grades 10-12, high school with the last four years being for
higher/university education (9-3-4). A number of primary schools have, as a
result of the new policy added Grades 8 and 9 to become basic schools.
4.    Considering that currently 31% of children of primary school age are not
attending school, and that the quality of primary education -is low in most schools,
'the Government's first priority in the sector is to increase enrolment and improve
learning outcomes in order to achieve Education For All for grades 1 - 7 by the
year 2005 and for grades 1 - 9 by 2015.
Enrolment
5.    There are two main sources of enrolment data in Zambia: administrative statistics
from the Ministry of Education's School Survey carried out in February of each
year; and estimates derived from sample surveys of households, carried out by the
Central Statistical Office (CSO).
6.    The MOE School Survey (1996) found that about 1,506,650 children were
enrolled in primary school (787,606 boys; 719,044 girls). The Gross Enrolment
Ratio was therefore about 85%. However, 240,000 of these students were over-
age. The enrolment of children of the appropriate age was 1,270,000, or 71% of
the age group as estimated by the CSO. Some provinces such as Copperbelt and
Lusaka displayed gender parity, while others such as Eastern Province displayed
substantial gender gaps. On the basis of the Annual School Surveys, enrolment
growth in the 1990s has only been 1.2% annually; well below the estimated
population growth of 3.2% annually.



Annex 1 1
Page 4 of 14
7.    According to the CSO, there were about 1,780,000 children of primary school
level (ages 7-13) in 1996. The Living Conditions Monitoring Survey (1996)
found that 1,220,000 of these children were enrolled in school, yielding a Net
Enrolment Ratio of 69%, while 560,000 (31%) were out of school. The
unenrolled children in rural areas (38%) were twice that of urban areas (19%).
The unenrolment problem was higher in provinces away from the line-of-rail than
those near it.
8.    Reasons for children being out of school include the cost of education to parents,
the low quality of education, the distance to school in many rural areas, and the
increasing number of orphans.
Learning Achievement
9.    All the proxies used to measure quality of education - dropouts, repeaters,
number of textbooks, number of trained teachers - suggest weaknesses in the
quality of education in Zambia. Due to teachers of Grades 1-4 teaching two
classes daily, leaming time6in Grades 1-4 of less than 3.5 hours daily is below the
norm in Africa. With regard to direct, criterion-referenced measurement of
learning, a recent national sample assessment of reading performance among
Grade 6 children found that only 25% had attained the level of competence which
teachers considered the minimum necessary for the Grade, while 2.4% achieved
the level assessed as desirable by teachers.
Cost to Education
10.   Unit Costs  and  Financing  for  Primary  Education. In  1996,
Government expenditure on primary education was Kwacha 42 billion. On the
basis of estimated household expenditure of K 20,500 per student, household
expenditure would have been K 33 billion. As national averages, Government
expenditure per primary student was about US$22, with household expenditure
per primary student at about US$17, yielding a unit cost of US$39. Thus, on a
national average basis, Government met 56% of the costs, and households 44%
of the costs.
11.   However, in the Zambian context where there is considerable poverty and income
inequality, averages can be misleading. The Living Conditions Monitoring
Survey (LCMS) 1996 found 75% of all Zambian households, and 87% of rural
households, to be either extremely or moderately poor. The LCMS found that
household expenditures on education (all levels) varied as follows: small-scale
farming households, K 15,000 (1.6% of total household expenditures); low-cost
urban households, K 51,000 (2.6% of total); medium-cost urban households, K
138,000 (4.0% of total); and high-cost urban households, K 236,000 (6.1% of
total). The average urban household spent five times as much on education as
the average rural household. Therefore, a student from a rural household is likely
to be attending a school where the unit cost is US$30 or less, while a student in
an urban area is likely to attend a school where the unit cost is US$50 or more.



Annex 11
Page 5 of 14
12.   The Government Budget for Education. In the 1997 budget, GRZ
financing for the Ministry of Education was K106 billion, equivalent to 17.6% of
the GRZ discretionary budget. Actually, the Ministry of Education's share of the
GRZ discretionary budget has been on an increase. It was 14.6 % in 1996, 16.8 %
in 1997 and 19.3% in 1998. The upward trend is expected to continue in 1999.
13.   Regarding the intra-sectoral allocation, GRZ financing for the Ministry of
Education in 1998 was apportioned as follows: primary education, K85 billion
(57%); secondary education, K 19 billion (13%); university education, K 18
billion (12%); primary teacher training, K5 billion (3%); secondary teacher
training, K700,000 (0.5%); administration of the education system, K22 billion
(15%). Since external financing is directed largely to primary education, the
share of primary education in total MOE expenditures including external aid is
62%.
14.  In 1996, Government expenditure per secondary student was 2.3 times higher
than Government expenditure per primary student, while Government
expenditure per university student was 127 times higher than Government
expenditure per primary student. A Benefit Incidence Analysis carried out by
researchers contracted by the Ministry of Education (1997) and drawing on the
LCMS, found that the benefits of Government expenditure on primary education
were evenly distributed among income groups. The benefits of Government
expenditure on secondary education on the other hand showed a somewhat biased
distribution with higher income groups deriving more benefit. Like in many other
countries in the world, expenditure on university education is skewed in favour of
upper income groups, than for secondary education.
15.   The National Policy on Education has pointed to the need for improved budget
implementation in the education sector. In both 1996 and 1997, GRZ financing
for the MOE budget was increased through mid-year supplementaries by 17%,
with the largest increases being for university student bursaries. In some  years,
unrealistically low initial budget ceilings from the Ministry of Finance had
hampered realistic budget preparation.
Institutional Aspects
16.   Until recently, the planning and management of education have been centred on
the Ministry of Education (Headquarters) officials in consultation with the
Provincial Education Offices. Schools and colleges have been subjected to long
lines of answerability and channels of commnunication, resulting in delays in
decision-making and implementation of policies. Restructuring and
decentralisation of MOE are therefore seen as inevitable in the new system.
Government will during 1999 prepare a revised PSRP Action and
Implementation Plan to be approved by Cabinet and then implementated. This
will be done in close consultation with the Management Development Division
of cabinet Office. The restructuring of MOE is critical as it will put in place
qualified staff and efficient management systems.



Annex 11
Page 6 of 14
17.   Decentralization in the education sector is being pursued through the creation of
Education Boards for each district, secondary school and teacher training college.
A pilot phase was launched in 1996 and evaluated in 1997 in the Copperbelt
Province respectively.
Elements of the Educational Process
18.   Teachers. According to a 1996 School Survey (MOE) there were 38,217
teachers in Grades 1-7 (primary), of whom 28,831 were trained, and 9336 (22%)
were untrained. Thus, as a national average the student/teacher ratio was 42:1.
These figures do not take into account head-teachers, and senior teachers in
Grade 1 schools who teach fewer hours than the ordinary teachers.
19.  In 1996, the monthly salary for a trained teacher was K 74,803 (US$ 88.00 per
month), while the starting monthly salary for an untrained teachers was K 57,468
(US$67.60). This is less than the K90,000 per month which is paid to university
students to cover the cost costs of their meals. The CSO has estimated that, in
1996, the poverty datum line for a household consisting of two adults and four
children, (based on food expenditures) absorbed 70% of income for a minimum,
mainly vegetarian diet, and minimum non-food expenditures absorbing 30% of
income, or about K149,000 (US$115) per month. These data suggest that, in the
absence of other sources of income, most untrained teachers and some trained
teachers would fall beneath the poverty datum line. In addition to the low value
of compensation, late salary payment has been a problem, especially in rural
areas, due to weaknesses in the payment system. The low value of monetary
compensation, lack of housing in rural areas, and the AIDS epidemic have all
contributed to the high attrition rate among the teaching cadre (9%).
20.  Initial Teacher Training (ITT) in Zambia for prospective primary school teachers
is provided in six Government, four Grant Aided and two privately funded
teacher training colleges. In addition there are two primary Inservice Teachers
Colleges. Pre-service training has been characterised by an overloaded and
content-based curriculum, and teaching approaches which emphasized passive
learning through traditional methods of teaching. There has been a gap between
the classroom conditions for which student teachers were prepared, and the actual
classroom conditions in most rural schools. Annual teacher output from
Teachers' Colleges is less than 1,800, which, in the context of the very high rate
of attrition from the teaching force, is insufficient for the purpose of reducing
reliance on untrained teachers.
21.  In the past, teachers received little support for their work in schools. Today
however, 77 Teacher Resource Centres have been constructed at national,
provincial, and district levels, and Government is meeting the costs of staffing
these centres. Through the Action to Improve English Mathematics and Science
(AIEMS), short courses in teaching skills are being offered. However, these
courses are not yet reaching sufficient numbers of teachers.
A



Annex 11
Page 7 of 14
22.   Instructional Materials. While the provision of textbooks has increased
mainly as a result of Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project (ZERP) and other
bilateral donor efforts, there are shortages in every school and across most
subjects, 87% of Grade 6 pupils reported that they did not have a reader or
textbook and did not have any kind of wall-chart or atlas (SACMEQ report
1998).
II. Objectives and Measures for 1999-2002
23.   From the description above, it is clear that basic education in Zambia faces
multiple challenges. In response to these challenges, BESSIP is the Government's
effort to define its objectives and strategies for basic education more precisely
and to allocate GRZ and donor resources more effectively in relation to these
objectives and strategies. The Government recognizes that, in view of the current
limitations in financial resources and in the implementation capacity of the
Ministry, it will be necessary to maintain adequate focus on the core national
basic education programmes.
24.   The Ministry of Education intends to establish education boards in at least 60%
of the districts by the year 2001. All districts will be decentralised financially in
2000 and the pace of the creation of Boards will be determined by readiness
criteria to be developed by the Planning Directorate.
25.   The Ministry of Education Headquarters and Provincial Offices will be
restructured to better meet their roles in the decentralised system. At the
Headquarters, restructuring will include strengthening the Planning Directorate,
and the creation of a Teacher Education Unit with responsibility for both pre-
service and in-service training. Currently a Teacher Education Unit has been
created as a forerunner to the new unit.
Development Objectives - Enrolment and Learning
26.   Enrolment.  During 1999-2002, the Government's objective is to achieve
enrolment growth in Grades 1-7, as reported in the Annual School Surveys, of
3.7%, thereby improving substantially over the 1% average annual enrolment
growth of recent years. In order to achieve greater enrolment growth, the
Government proposes to address issues of affordability, quality, and distances to
school especially in rural areas.
27.  In order to reduce provincial disparities in enrolment, the following targets for
increasing enrolment have been set. Lusaka and Copperbelt provinces, 3%;
Eastern province, 6%; all other provinces, 4%. In the monitoring of enrolment
data, attention will also be devoted to reduction of urban/rural disparities, and
to reduction of gender gaps where these are found. The Ministry of Education
will accelerate the processing of the Annual School Survey, so that tabulations
based on the data collected in February will be available by May of each year, and
will align urban/rural definitions and population estimates of school-age children
in the School Survey with those of the CSO.



Annex  1I
Page 8 of 14
28.  In order to assess progress in reducing unenrolment, the Semi-Annual reports will
additionally include reporting on household-based data relating to primary
enrolment and unenrolment.
29.   Learning. The Ministry of Education is establishing a national assessment
programme to appropriately measure educational achievement. This is to be
implemented by the Examinations Council of Zambia. National assessments of
reading and numeracy will be carried out in 1999 and 2001, and will be guided by
a Steering Committee with representatives of various units of the Ministry of
Education, the University of Zambia, and the CSO. The assessment to be done
in 2001 is expected to provide evidence of improvements made in children's
learning. Some of the test items used in a 1997 pilot will be repeated in 1999
and 2001, to provide a comparison of pupil achievement. Proxies for learning,
including dropout and repetition rates, will also be monitored. In addition a
reading programme in local languages is being implemented in the Northern
Province to enhance pupil achievement. National Competence testing at Grade 4
is being piloted with a view to spreading it to all schools. This seeks to change
the focus and orientation Qf the learning process so that emphasis is placed on the
acquisition of competencies. Competence Based Testing will be a teaching tool
that shall provide the teacher with the appropriate feed back so that they are able
to adjust their strategies to meet the individual needs of the pupils.
Elements of the Educational Process
30.   Teachers. Government wishes to increase the number of trained teachers and
reduce the number of untrained teachers, with the objective of doing away with
the employment of untrained teachers by 2002. To achieve this, staffimg levels
will be 44,000.
31.   The strategy to increase the number of trained teachers is primarily about
reducing attrition, especially among rural teachers, by improving compensation
and benefits, and by providing in-service training and generally improving
teaching conditions in the classroom. Additionally, the teacher training system
will need to be improved.
32.   Measures will be put in place to improve compensation and benefits for teachers
particularly teachers in rural areas. These could include:-
1.    Freezing postings to urban areas (1999)
2.    Entry at higher salary notch for rural teachers (2000)
3.    Providing home ownership scheme for teachers (1999)
4.    Allocating a quota for in-service training (1999)
5.    Decentralisation of payroll (1998 - 99).
33.   The Ministry of Education will address the problem of quality and quantity of
teacher provision through the Zambia Teacher Education Reform Programme
(ZATERP). ZATERP aims at replacing the current emphasis on content with a
competence-based approach, commencing with a College-based year and
concluding with a school-based year in which the student teachers are supported



Annex 11
Page 9 of 14
by mentors and through provision of distance learning materials. Currently,
ZATERP is in operation as a pilot programme in three Teachers' Colleges. An
evaluation will be conducted in 1999 and, the new approach will be extended in
phases to all teachers' colleges.
34.   School Infrastructure. According to the 1996 Annual School Survey, there
were 35,965 permanent classrooms and 12,937 pole and mud structures. Thus,
about 26% of classes were meeting in substandard structures there by affecting
pupil attendance, teaching and sometimes disrupting classes under adverse
weather conditions. Currently rehabilitation is continuing under MPU, OPEC,
ESSP, Irish Aid and ADB support. These efforts have began to improve the state
of school infrastructure. The objectives of the school infrastructure program are
to reduce the percentage of classes meeting in substandard structures, and where
justified reduce distances to school in rural areas. The intervention to be made
will aim at adding 3,763 new classrooms to be built between 1999 to 2002 and
providing a sitting capacity for all children through procuring of 345,500 double
sitter desks by the year 2002.
35.   Health and Nutritional Status of School Children. Current estimates
put malnutrition rates at 50% among children in Zambia. Some investigation in
the country indicate that at least 46% of respondents came to school once a week
without eating. Health profiles of school-aged children in Zambia show that
parasitic worm infections occur in approximately 60% of the children and that
approximately 75% suffer from anemia. Nationally iodine deficiency runs at
32%, and symptoms of vitamin A deficiency are also common. As a result, many
Zanmbian school going children are malnourished. The focus of this component is
on ensuring healthy and better nourished children. To do this a school Health and
Nutrition scheme will be piloted to test 3 integrated modules for improving the
health and nutrition status of pupils.
36.   Educational Materials. This component aims at attaining a book pupil ratio
of 1:2 by procurement of a basic text book kit for 2,000 classes per year for 4
years i.e 1999 - 2002
37.   Equity Interventions.  In addition to distributing trained teachers more
evenly, and revisiting other conditions of service for them, the Ministry will
implement additional interventions to assist disadvantaged learners. A Bursary
Scheme for girls and for the poor will be piloted in 1999 and through the
programme for the Advancement of girls Education (PAGE) specific
interventions for increasing enrolment, retention and achievement of girls will be
taken to national scale. In addition support to community schools will be
increased and more multigrade schools will be established in rural areas where
necessary. The focus of this component is on ensuring that no eligible child is
blocked from participating in Basic Education on account of school costs,
distance to school and school related barriers



Annex 11
Page 10 of 14
38.   Curriculum Development.
The objectives of this component are to provide a Basic School Curriculum that
places emphasis on essential literacy, numeracy and communication skills for
lower basic children and to improve the teaching process and learning outcomes
through flexible teaching methodologies. Additionally it will involve the re-
alignment of the teacher Education Reform Programme and the Basic School
Curriculum.
39.   Capacity Building and Decentralisation
This component will contribute to the development of internal systems for
planning, monitoring and management as well as building human and
institutional capacity and to enable the Ministry to effectively and efficiently
plan, manage and implement programmes in the delivery of Basic Education.
40.   Financial Resources
In the 1999 budget, the Ministry of Education's share of domestic supply
expenditure, as defined in the MTFF of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development is 19.0%. Over the next three years, the shares of the GRZ
domestic supply budget to be devoted to the Ministry of Education will be at least
19.8% for the year 2000, 20.2% for 2001 and 20.5% for 2002. Goverunent is
aware that at least 25% of its budget should be allocated to education as is the
case in some neighbouring African countries concerned with achieving universal
primary education. Specifically, the GRZ budget (excluding external project aid)
would be increased gradually to 25%.
41.   Presently, financing of primary education, compared to other levels notably
higher education is inadequate. Zambia as a nation will need to mobilize more
financial resources for primary education in order to increase enrolment among
approximately 30% of children of primary school age who are not enrolled.
Besides, there should be an increase in unit costs in rural schools to bring the
quality of education in these schools closer to that offered by urban schools. In
order to address these issues, there is need to mobilize more resources for the
education of the vulnerable groups.
42.   The share of the Ministry of Education's budget going to primary education in
1999 is 58.6%.  However, when National Headquarters and Provincial
Administrative costs related to primary education are taken into account the share
is over 60%. The Ministry of Education intends to maintain the budget share for
primary education at 60% during the BESSIP period. The Ministry of Education
will revise the pattern of expenditure within primary education to make it more
accessible to vulnerable groups by: (a) Implementing measures to promote a
more even distribution of trained teachers at district level; and (b) Revising the
principles for allocation of non-wage support to districts so as to give relatively
more financial support to poorer districts with less local revenue-raising capacity.



-Annex1 I
Page 11 of 14
43.   Plans are under way to liberlise student admissions to Universities so as to allow
for more privately sponsored students. In addition a strong opening learning
system for higher institutions of learning is being developed for this category of
learners. As set out in the National Policy on Education, it is government's
policy to reduce transfer payments to students in higher institutions for their
personal welfare. Plans are underway to introduce a loan scheme to this category
of learners.
44.   To improve on planning and budgeting, the Ministry has embarked on budget
reforms centred on programme/ activity based Budgeting at all levels.



Annex 11
Page 12 of !4
LogFrame on Government Program
NARRATIVE SUMMARY, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS   MEANS OF VERIFICATION  CRITICAL
, 1_                                                                         ASSUMPTIONS/RISKS
Univenil Educaton:         1. 100% enrollment for            1.1 School returns
quality and relevant Basic    Gr. 1-7 achieved by            1.2 Household surveys
Education for aU children     2005
achieved.                                                    1.3 Annual reports
1.4 MOE Statistical
bulletins
1.5 DEB reports
2. Learning achievement           2.1 National                    _
of Grades 1-7 improved             Assessment results
(to 50%) by 2005              2.2 SACMEQ report
OVERALL PROGRAMM           1. I currendy available baselines:  1. I. I MOE statistics         1. There is increased funding
OBJECTIVES:                1996 enrolment data in Government    1.1.2 Household surveys       for basic education from GRZ
To increase enrolment  ,   and Grant-aided basic schools:    1.1.3 Annual situation analysis   budget
Boys 790.000 - Girls 720.000 - Total   1.1.4 CSO data (LCMS)       2. There is continued donor
1.510.000
1.2 N.E.R (1996 MOE data) 79 %    1. 1.5 School surveys           funding for BESSIP
(for total enrolment)             1.2.1 MOE statistics             3. There is stakeholder
t1.3 Enrolment rates for grades 1-7  1.2.2 Annual situation analysis   acceptance and support for
pupils increased at an annual growth    1.3.1 Annual situation analysis    BESSIP
rate of 3.7% from 1,567,000 m pupils  1.3.2 Household surveys     4. Population growth
in 1998 to :- 1999 - 1,628 m,  2000   1.3.3 CSO data (LCMS)       stabilised at 3.3 % p.a.
- 1,692 m,                                                         5. Enrolment growth rate of
2001 - 1,758 m and in 2002 - 1,827 m                               3.7%  pa sustained
LEARNING                   2. 1 Undertake pilot survey in 1998.   2.1 survey reports          6. ECZ and national
ACHIEVEMENT:               2.2 Carryout national assessment in    2.2 National assessment report   assessment steering
To improve learnmg         1999 and 2001.                    2.3 FEMSA, SRP and               committee commitment
achievement                2.3 Regional and national research  SACMEQ Reports                 sustained
studies.
2.4 National reading ard initial  2.4 National reading             7. Regional and National
literacy programme in place.     pilot and mid-term  report.      studies sustained
8. Stakeholder acceptance of
Zambian languages as initial
medium of instruction.
1. OVERALL                 I. Management committees and sub-   Progress reports.
MANAGEMENT                 committees in place.                                               1. MOE restructuring
Achieve effective                                                                             complete and all officers
consultation and coordination   - Code of conduct followed   Semi-annual review               committed ao reform
and the rational use of scarce
resources within set priority    - Achievement of indicators
progmramms.                                                                                   2. Required capacity
developed and in place at all
levels.
2. INFRASTRUCTURE          1. 1,994 Rural. peri-urban, 1.769  1. Semi-Annual, Annual and      1. School mapping exercise
Urban classrooms built rural     quarterly progress reports for    completed by end of 1999
2. 1.518 rural Classrooms         BESSIP, microprojects Irish      2. Capacity to implement
Increased quality          rehabilitated and 682 urban       Aid, ADB, ESSP and OPSUP         construction works sustained
infrastrueture for learning  classrooms rehabilitated        p        r
within 5 kms including     3. 343,500 two-seater desks procured  project reports.             3. Strategies for construction
storage of materias, adequate  4. New teachers' houses built, rural   2. Mid Term review reports  include demand driven, low
housing for rural teachers.    2,032, peri-urban 477         3. MOE statistical bulletins     cost and community based
safe water supply and      5. Teachers' houses rehabilitated:  4. Annual reports              programmes
sanitation and desks       Rural 546, peri urban/urban 89    5. District Development          4. Ongoing infrastructure
6. Classrooms maintained: rural   Committee reports                projects accomplished as
2,540, peri-urban/urban 1,140     6. BESSIP JSC meeting            planned.
7. Con/runiry classrooms bult peri-  minutes                       5. Capacity of suppliers to
8. 404 rural and 66 urban staff houses  7. WASHE Reports           produce desks sustained



Annex 1 1
Page 13  f14
maintained                                                            6. WASHE Programmes
9. 748 borcholes drilled and equipped                                 sustained
(rural), 442 (urban)
10. 7,889 VIP units (rural) 2,451 VIP
units and 2.451 toilets (urban)
constructed
(           II. .20 community schools with VIPs
and water points constructed by 2002
1. Sustainable and well managed
3. TEACHER                   1. 41.048 teachers undertake in-   1. TRC annual reports              decentralised system for in-
DEVELOPMENT                 service training in content reading                                    service teacher development in
DEPLOYMENT AND              skills and pedagogy                                                    place
COMPENSATION                2. 10.700 teachers undertake initial    2. TTC returns                 2. Teacher Training Colleges well
teacher training                                       .              equipped and consistently funded
More and better trained     3. Improved conditions of service for  3. BESSIP quarterly, semi-annual    3. Distnce learning Teacher
teachers correctly deployed    all teachers including Home      mid term review reports__          Education Programme in place
according to MOE norms and   Owinership Scheme, improved pay-                                      4. Teachers' Unions supportive
adequately compensated      points and dates, and incentives for                                   of proposed incentives
rural teachers                                                        5. Increased GRZ funding to
4. Re-deployment of 5,350 teachers    4. Teachers acquitted pay sheets  Teacher education
from overstaffed urban schools to  and payslips 5. School annual      6. Housing available in rural
deficit rural schools              retums                             areas and MOE active in
effecting deployment policy.
4. EDUCATIONAL               1.10.7 Million textbooks to achieve a   1. School Returns, stock books and    I. Book policy in place
MATERIALS                   book/pupil ratio of 1:2 and learning    inventories                    2. Liberalization of book industry
kits procured.                                                        effective
Textbooks, and other        2. Distance learning materials for  2. Mid-term review reports.        3. Targeted pupil growth rate of
learning materials including    school and home-based basic                                        3.7 pa sustained.
teachers guides and teachers   education programmes developed                                      4. Teachers making use of books
tables and chairs available  procured and in use.                                                  5. Effective distribution
and in use                  3. School library books procured.   3. MOE Statistical bulletins       mechanism in place.
4. Pracdcal subjects toolkits procured   4. Annual school surveys     6. Library facilitates available in
schools.
7. Practical subject rooms
available
S. CAPACITY BUILDING    1. Education Boards at district and     1. I Cabinet Office reports        Phased implementaion on course
AND                         institutional level established and  1.2 Statutory instrument
DECENTRALISATION            functional
2. Five new Directorates established    2. Establishment register     PSRP on course
National Capacity to plan,  and qualified personnel appointed
implement, monitor and      3. Stakeholders well informed       3. Stakeholder infornnation strategy    PRO appointed/advocacy
report built and Ministry of    sensitised and oriented to reforms  (programmes)                   committee in-palce
Education Restructuring     4. HRD plan across the levels in place  4. HRD plan/framework          Phased PSRP on course
completed.                  and operationalised
5. Improved school, district and   5. Appraisal reports               New open appraisal system in
provincial management                                                 place
6. Improved planning and monitoring   6. Performance reports
of programmes
7. National EMIS developed and in    7. Annual returns, stadstical    Qualified personnel in place
use at district level              bulledn, annual school survey and  Qualified personnel in place
8. BEMS established and operational  institutional records
9. Improved fiancial accounting and   8. Financial and audit reports
management at district             9. Financial and audit reports
10. Training of 4,500 educadon
managers, 100 education planners    10. Training reports              HRD plan/framework in place
and 110
11. Training of infrastructure
personnel implimented               I1. Training reports              HRD plan/framework in place



Annex 11
._ age 14 of 14
6. CURRICULUM              1. bicreased emphasis ae the core  1. Inspection reports            There are necessas capacides
DEVELOPMENT                competencies in the lower basic level,  2. School reports           and the confidence in tDe key
Basic school cuirricum in    and on integrated themes in the  3. Pupi achievement results      institutions to manage the
line with and respotding to  middle basic levels for the      4. Pupil achievement scores in   curriculum development process.
educadon policy and needs    improvement of teaching processes    national tests
and learning outcomes.                                              Pilot programmes implemented
as planned
7. EQUITY/GENDER
No child blocked from school  I.Narrowing of gaps in enrolment by   1.  MOE satistics and monitoring   1. The provisions of the CRC,
because of costs, uniforms,    gender, locadon, socio-economic    instruments e.g. school surveys  UDHR, Beijing platform,
distance, unfavourable school  status, special educational needs,                              Salamanca declaradon
environment, parental      orphanhood.                                                         encapsulated in legall regulatory
perceptions                                                                                    framework* ...
Quality basic education    2. School costs rank low among    2. Quarterly, semi-annual, annual    2. OCther BESSIP components
equitably provided.        factors leading to non-participation or  reports                    with relevant targets support this
drop out.                                                           objective.
Equity in allocadon of     3. Bursary scheme established      3. LCMS reports                  3. Alternative sources of
e  -     resources                                                                                      fnancing available
4. MOE makes allocations to DEBs    4. Reports from NCDSS, ZCSS
and Basic School Boards according to                                4. There are no educadon related
equity based criteria.                                              beliefs and pracdces which
prevent some children from
attending school
8. SCHOOL HEALTH           L. Policy on school health and     1. SHN Policy document           1. Key sector, Ministries willing
AND NUTRITION              nutrition in place in 1999         2. LCMS report                   to joindy develop a school health
2. Pilot food supplementaion,     3. quarterly, semi-annual, annual  and nutrition policy
Healthy and well nourished    dewormiing, screening of pupil in  and mid term review reports   2. Cabinet approves SHN policy
children attending basic   selected basic schools in 4 districts    4. SHN Scheme monitoring and  3. National SHN Baseline survey
education by the year 2002  during 1999                      evaluation reports                completed by end of 1998
througb community          3. Conduct in service training for  5.  Schools returns             4. Cultural and social acceptance
participation and intersectoral  teachers in reproductive health. life   6.  6. Review reports  of food supplements
collaboradon               skills, HIV/AIDS, drug abuse and                                    5. Continued polidcal will to
guidance and counseling for teachers                               support children at risk.
4. School producdon units and child-                                6. Community comtrniunent to
to-child activities revitalised.                                    feeding scheme sustained.
5. Implement a phased roilout of the                                7. Evaluation report of pilot
SHN Scheme.                                                        phase positive
L.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 6
Teacher Supply, Needs, Deployment and Compensation
1. Establishment Norms. Currently in Zambia, teachers of Grades I - 4 teach two classes while
teachers of Grades 5 - 7 teach one class each. Accordingly, a primary school with one full stream
of 7 classes needs 5 teachers. The establishment norms also make allowances for the teaching
loads of Headteachers, Deputy Heads and Senior Teachers and there is also an allowance for
teachers of practical subjects, including Home Economics and Industrial Arts. This is shown in
Table 1. The amount of time Headteachers teach depends on the size of the school. In a Grade I
school with 30 classes or more, the Headteacher does not teach. In an ungraded (7 - 9 classes) or a
Grade 4 (10- 21 classes) school the Headteacher carries a full teaching load.
Table 1. Primary School Establishment Norms
School          Teaching Load      Number            Teachers Needed
Grade      Head  Deputy  Senior of classes 5/7max Head Deputy Senior Practical Add
1        not teach not teach 3 (half)  30+  22+     1      1      3     2-3     7
2          Half    half  2 (half)  25-29    21      1      1      2     1-2     4
3          Half    full   1 (half)  22-24    18     1      1      1      1      2
4          Full    full    nil   10-21    15        1      1      0      1       1
Ungraded    Full     nil    nil    =<9        7      1     0      0       0      0
The assignment of one teacher to two classes at Grades 1-4 enables the scarce trained teachers to
reach twice as many pupils and reduces the teacher salary bill at these Grades. However, there are
a number of disadvantages associated with this assignment of teachers. The most obvious is the
teacher contact hours at Grades 1-4. The maximum daily hours per class in Grades 1-4 is 3.5
hours. This is inadequate and well below the norm of 5 hours per day across Africa. Another
disadvantage is the burden placed on teachers by seven hours of continuous pupil contact daily.
Clearly this practice has an impact on the poor learning outcomes as measured by the Southern
African Consortium on Monitoring Educational Quality. However, as will be seen from the
analysis, producing sufficient numbers of trained teachers to meet the current norms will be a
problem until 2005.
2. Teacher Needs
Table 2 Primary School Teacher Needs, 1996
Classes          Teachers Needed
(CL)         CL* 5/7        Add'           (TN)
C/Belt            7351           5251          1254           6505
Central           4930           3521           749           4270
Eastern           4882           3487           711           4198
Luapula           3459           2471           521           2992
Lusaka            4132           2951           661           3612
Northern          4764           3403           844           4247
N/Western         2865           2046           388           2434
Southern          5809           4149           846           4995
Westemn           4066           2904           651           3555
TOTAL             42258         30184          6625          36809
Source: Staff analysis based on MoE data.
1. Additional number of teachers is calculated according to the norms in Table 1.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 6
Table 2 shows the number of teachers needed in 1996 according to the norms: there was a shortage
of 8,000 trained teachers in Zambia in 1996. This gap is reduced to 3,600 if the need for practical
subjects teachers is excluded: since 1995 the curriculum of teacher training colleges provides all
newly trained teachers with skills to teach these subjects.
3. Teacher deployment. Table 3 shows the current deployment of teachers in Zambia by Province
and gender. Trained teachers are in surplus in only one Province, Lusaka. The shortfall is lowest
in the other urban Province: the Copperbelt. The pupil:teacher ratio is highest in the rural
provinces of Northwestern and Northern.
Table 3 Deployment of Primary Teachers by Province and by Gender, 1996
Province         Trained Teachers       Teachers   Gap A  Untrained   Gap B   Pupil: teacher
I_Needed             teacher                ratio
Male   Female   (TT)        (TN)    TT-TN    (UT)  (TT+UT)--TN       P:Tr
C/Belt        2250     3526      5776    6505       -729    1234        505        52.2
Central       1804     1282      3086    4270      -1184    1020        -164       54.8
Eastern       2111     1112      3223    4198       -975    1045         70        49.2
Luapula       1665      587      2252    2992       -740     966        226        50.4
Lusaka        1428     2558      3986    3612        374     323        697        44.8
Northern      1860      891      2751    4247      -1496    1606        110        72.2
N/Western      998      371      1369    2434      -1065     792        -273       76.0
Southern      2096     1863      3959    4995      -1036    1134         98        52.0
Western       1507      922      2429    3555      -1126    1216         90        50.8
Total        15719    13112    28831   36809       -7978    9336       1358        53.9
Source: MOE statistics and staff analysis.
As can be seen in Table 3, almost half of the 13,112 female teachers deployed in Zambian primary
schools in 1996, were in the urban centers. Female teachers are 62% of the total trained teaching
population in the Copperbelt and Lusaka. Put another way, 45% of all the trained female teachers
in Zambia are working in Lusaka and the Copperbelt but only 21 % of all the trained male teachers
work in Lusaka and the Copperbelt. The table also indicates that Lusaka and Copperbelt
provinces are assigned more untrained teachers than their requirements while North-Western and
Central provinces have a shortfall.
4. Teacher supply. Zambia has 10 teachers' colleges training primary school teachers. Four of
these are run by Churches with grants from government: the remaining six are government-run.
The courses offered are two-year full-time courses with students placed for teaching practice in
schools close to the colleges. The Zambia Teacher Education Reform Program (ZATERP) aims to
provide "one plus one" courses with the first year in the teachers' college and the second year in
schools, combining supervised teaching practice and self-study of distance learning materials.
ZATERP is currently being tested in three colleges and will be extended to all teachers' colleges in
phases. The implementation of ZATERP will eventually double the output from teachers' colleges.
Table 4 shows the projected numbers of newly qualified entrants to the teaching profession
between 1998 and 2010. The numbers in Table 4 assume a doubling of output as a result of the
introduction of ZATERP and a continuation of the failure/absenteeism rate of 8%.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 6
Table 4 Projected Numbers of Newly Qualified Entrants to the Primary Teacher
Employment Pool from 1998-2010
College             1998  1999  2000  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006-10
Chi. Lwanga (GA)     192   200   200   200    200    400    400    400         2000
Chipata             210   210   210   210    210    420    420    420          2100
D. Livingstone (GA)   160*   160   160   160    160    320    320    320       1600
Kasama               167   175   175   175    175    350    350    350         1750
Kitwe               330   405t  405t  810t   810t   8101   810t   810t    4050t
M. Moffat (GA)       178   160   160   160    160    320    320    320         1600
Mansa                170   160   160   160    160    320    320    320         1600
Mongu (GA)           149   160   160   160    160    320    320    320         1600
Mufulira             175   185t  185j  370t   370t   370t   370t   370t    1850t
Solwezi             164   160   160   320    320    320    320    320          1600
Total               1895  1975  1975  2725   2725   3950  39500   3950    19750
Absents/Failure 8%   152   158   158   218    218    316    316    316         1580
Effective output    1743  1817  1817  2507   2507   3634   3634   3634    18170
Cumulative Total    1743  3560  5377  7884  10391  14025  17659  21293    39463
Notes: * includes teachers graduating with Pre-school Teaching Certificate.
t includes teachers graduating from TEC scheme (3 classes of 25 from Kitwe TTC, and 1 class
of 25 from Mufulira TTC).
GA - Grant Aided Colleges.
Source: Simon Chiputa and Colin Wood-Robinson, Teacher Development and Deployment,
November 1997.
5. Supply and need. Table 5 projects teacher needs to 2010 on a number of scenarios, with
different assumptions on enrollment growth, removing specialist teachers and reducing teacher
attrition from the current 9% to 5% annually. (Taking account of the likely impact of HIV/AIDS
on teacher mortality it is improbable that attrition could be reduced below 5%.) The best-case
scenario shows a shortfall of 2,800 trained teachers by 2005 and there could be an oversupply
from 2008. If for this scenario the norms are changed to one teacher for each class at all grades,
the demand for trained teachers increases to 52,000 (instead of 37,800) by 2005 and there would
be a shortfall of 16,900 teachers.



Annex 12
Page 4 of 6
Table 5 Projection of Qualified Teachers Demand and Supply from 1998 to 2010
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2010
a. Teachers Needed l   39684  41721  43864  46117  48485   50975  53593   56345 68564
b. Teachers Needed 2   32949  33608  34280  34966  35665   36378  37106   37848 41787
c. Teachers Retained 3  25422  24720  24149  23629  23784   23924  25078   26128 30119
d. Teachers Retained 4  25422  24992  24932  25144  26269   27337  29422   31404 39919
e. College Output 5'6    1743   1817   1817   2507   2507    3634   3634    3634  3634
f. Teachers Available   27165  26537  25966  26136  26291   27558  28712   29762 33753
g. Teachers Available4  27165  26809  26749  27651  28776   30971  33056   35038 43553
Shortfall A (a-f)     12519  15184  17898  19981  22194   23417  24881   26583 34811
Shortfall B (a-g)     12519  14913  17115  18465  19709   20004  20536   21308 25011
Shortfall C (b-f)     5784   7071   8314   8830   9374    8820   8394    8086  8034
Shortfall D (b-g)     5784   6799   7531   7314   6889    5407   4049    2810 -1766
1. High demand case: based on number of teachers needed in 1995 according to full MoE establishment
norms, plus 4.7% annual increase in enrollment - the growth rate needed to achieve full gross
enrollment by 2005. The norms include full provision of specialist teachers for Industrial Arts &
Home Economics. Numbers assume pupil-teacher ratios maintained at 1996 levels (42: 1) obtained by
the actual enrolment divided by the teachers needed by the norms.
2. Low demand case: based on number of teachers needed in 1995 according to MOE establishment
norms but ignoring the need for specialist teachers, plus 2% annual increase in enrollment. The
pupil:teacher ratio of 1996 (47.6: 1) would be maintained.
3 . Assumes current rate of attrition at 9%, an average of the last two years available (1994-5 and 1995-6).
4. Assumes rate of attrition is reduced gradually from the current 9% to 5%, taking the negative effect of
HIV/AIDs (about 1% addition to the attrition) into consideration.
5. Assumes extension of ZATERP model to all Colleges in 2000, hence doubling of entry to teaching
from 2003.
6. Assumes continued absentee/failure rate of 8%, an average of the last three years of 1994, 1995 and
1996.
Source: op. cit.
6. Policy Options. As seen above, the supply-needs gap cannot be filled through the planned
increase in the supply of trained teachers or in deploying them better and other policy measures
will have to be taken simultaneously. The key to teacher need in Zambia is the class: teacher ratio.
Number of classes, the class size, and number of teachers needed are examined here. The class size
will affect the number of classes, which then determines the teacher need according to the norms.
MoE is currently reviewing the establishment norm to increase the class size from 40 to 45 pupils.
Class sizes of 45 are not difficult to achieve in urban and peri-urban areas (though the pedagogical
impact may be debated). In rural areas, more flexible allocations of teachers are required. In
particular, multigrade teaching in which teachers teach more than one Grade at one time allow the
teacher to "pupil taught" ratio to increase. A second major factor affecting teacher need is the
allocation of specialist subject teachers. As has been explained, since 1995, student teachers have
received training in practical subjects. In addition, trained teachers of practical subjects are being
retrained to teach the full curriculum. Finally, teacher deployment norms must be applied to



Annex 12
Page 5 of 6
schools in urban areas. Table 6 shows the impact on teacher needs of increasing class size,
introducing multigrade teaching and removing the need for specialist teachers of practical subjects.
In addition, assumptions underlying the calculations in Table 6 are that the teacher attrition ratio
can be reduced to 5% annually, that deployment norms can be implemented, and that senior
teachers - whose teaching load currently is half of regular teachers - will teach full time.
Enrollment growth is projected for 4% annually over the first three years of BESSIP and then at
6% annually to reach 100% GER by 2005. Enrollment growth is then projected to maintain GER
at 100%. As can be seen, implementation of the policy measures reduces the trained teacher gap
significantly. However, it does not remove it and MoE will have to examine other measures to
remove the gap entirely. Each of these projections assumes that the current practice - assigning
one teacher to two classes at Grades 1-4 - will continue.
Table 6. Projection of Teacher Supply and Need with Policy Interventions: 1998-2010
1998  1999  2000  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2010
Primary Teachers Retained  25422 24992 24932  25144  26269  27337  29422  31404  39919
College output            1743  1817  1817   2507   2507   3634   3634   3634   3634
Teachers Available (Table 4)  27165 26809 26749  27651  28776  30971  33056  35038  43553
Teachers needed          35394 34660 34000  34073  33661  35100  37200  39433  46100
(with policy measures: PM)
Teacher deficit           8229  7851  7251   6422   4885   4129   4144   4395   2547
#ofclasses               41640 42711 43835  45014  45223  47545  49987  52554  63951
Teacher/class ratio       0.85  0.82  0.80   0.78   0.76   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75
Average Class size          40    41    42      43     45     45      45     45     45
Pupil-Teacher ratio         47    50    53      55     59     60      60     60     60
Teacher attrition          9%   8 %i  7%    6%1  5 %    5 %    5 %    5 %    5%
Enrollment growth rate    4.0%  4.0%  4.0%   4.0%   6.0%   6.0%   6.0%   6.0%   3.2%
Primary age pop. ('000)   1899  1960  2022   2086   2152   2221   2292   2365   2766
Primary Enrollment ('000)  1666  1733  1802   1874   1986   2106   2232   2366   2766
Gross Enrollment Ratio   88.0% 88.0% 89.0%  90.0%  92.0%  95.0%  97.0% 100.0% 101.0%
Teachers needed (without PM)  36271 37741 39244  40812  42445  45864  48608  51527  60238
Teacher deficit (without PM)    9106 10932 12495  13161  13669  14893  15552  16489  16685
Source: Staff Analysis.
7. Teacher remuneration. Currently, the starting salary of primary school teachers in Zambia is
about $600 a year. This is less than the amount paid to university students for their meals and
almost 25% below the CSO estimate of the poverty line for a household with two adults and four
children. While data comparing teachers salaries with those of other Zambian public servants is
not available, the situation of teachers is unsustainable. An examnination of the relationship
between teachers' salaries and GDP per capita in Zambia indicates that teacher earn about 2.4
times GDP per capita. Graph 1 shows the relationship between GDP per capita and teacher
earnings for 23 Sub-Saharan African countries: the level of Zambian teacher salary in relation to
GDP per capita is among the lowest of all the 23 countries.



Annex 12
Page 6 of 6
Graph 1. African Primary School Teacher Salary and GNP per capita
10000
s~ ==
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..          ,     ....s . : ..  ...... ......   ............................ 
0.0...   2.0           4.0         6.0           0         10.0         120
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                  ......    .    .. 
*t   -,  '    j  >  S ;  js  j   is   .t  ................  $  5   '........................
z " ' "' ' s ~~~~~~~~~~~. ''... ..........- ,  ,-s
j'.''...                      ............'.:.''.:.'-'"'''iis'''
*   j i   ;   jMulipe  jf jnom  pe capit-aj
o ,.; ., ,.s jjj . j. ; ......... j.   j ..........................  ..........
_  1 m   ^   ,j S j  j;  ::   ,.......   ;..', .  ..' 'j   ..... . .'   .....  . .j:S: .j ...:: . Sjj. ;
j0 0........ .  ........... ...                                 ..    ....    .   
Notes Teachers salary adGNPpercapitafigures arefor19c..e.....t ...es c                                                      e  i
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......                                            ...........
IL                           ..... ..,   s.....,              E-'''-'g.................  .............. 
..    :.   s.': ' ,   ,.,   ' : :    '::.:::.'':i.::E'  -   iEE. iE -.. -  ..........
.- - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ji......... .ii-  s
1990 USS except for Zambia with 1997 figures in 1990 US$.
Source: ADEA. 1995. A statistical profile of education in sub-Saharan Africa, 1990-1993 and Staff
analysis.



Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
Decentralization in the Education Sector
1.    Introduction. Until recently, education in Zambia had been highly centralized. The
planing and management of education have been centered around the Ministry of Education
(MoE) Headquarters in consultation with officials at the Provincial Education office. The district
level has not played a crucial role. Schools and colleges have been operating under long lines of
answerability and channels of communication, resulting in delays in decision-making and
implementation of policies.
2.    In the education sector, decentralization is being pursued through the creation of
Education Boards and has been authorized by Statutory Instruments issued by the Minister of
Education, as follows:
Statutory Instrument, no. 163, dated 1995, for Education Boards for each Teacher
Training College;
Statutory Instrument, no. 162, dated 1995, for Education Boards for each secondary
school;
Statutory instrument, no. 164, dated 1995, for District Education Boards (DEB) to be
responsible for primary education in each of the nine districts of Copperbelt
Province.
Additionally, MoE intends to create a District Education Board responsible for primary education
in all of the remaining districts. (These will be established in phases in all 72 districts.)
3.    MoE has described the powers and responsibilities of Education Boards in the following
Guideline documents, issued in either October or November 1997: Institutional Roles, Functions,
and Relationships; Standards and Evaluations, Human Resources; Procurement; Finance. The
main points, with particular reference to District Education Boards, are set out below.
4.    Institutional Roles, Function and Relationships. The District Education Board (DEB)
consists of the following members appointed by the Minister, on the basis of nominations
compiled and submitted by the District Education Officer (DEO); five members of the local
community nominated by the District Council; a representative nominated by the Teachers'
union; one representative of proprietors of Grant-Aided Schools; four headteachers
representatives nominated by the Head Teachers Association in the District; and two non-
teaching representatives of PTAs. The Board elects a member who is not an MoE employee as its
chairperson. The title of the District Education Officer is changed to Board Secretary.
5.    Responsibilities of DEBs included implementing education policy, mobilizing resources
to met identified needs, maintaining effective mechanisms for accountability, and managing
human resources within the board.
6.    The PTAs and the Education Board will exist parallel to each other as legal entities.
Each school shall retain its own PTA fund.
7.    The District Education Standards Officer (formerly Inspector) will remain responsible to
MoE (in particular, the Provincial Education Office), and not to the DEB. The DESO will
monitor and evaluate school performance and conduct teacher development programs.
8.    Human Resources. There are two categories of staff under the Education Board: those
seconded Boards from the Teaching Service Commission or the Public Service Commission, with



Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
salaries and allowances paid by the Govemment, for renewable terms of 3 years or more; and
staff appointed and paid by Education Boards. Seconded staff eligible for additional incentives
through funds raised locally by the Education Boards. For grades 1-4, which attend either of two
shifts, there is one teacher for two classes. For grades 5-7, there is one teacher per class. In
addition, each school has a separate headteacher post, except in the smallest schools where a
teacher serves concurrently as headteacher. The headteacher is responsible for maintaining the
Establishment Register.
9.    Procurement. Procurement and materials management will be decentralized as much as
possible in accordance with the provisions of the Zambia National Tender Board Act and the
Statutory Instruments that are issued from time to time. Each DEB will establish a District
Education Tender Committee, and a Procurement and Supplies Unit. The Decentralization of the
Education System: Procurement Guidelines identifies thresholds for various procedures to be
followed, according to the estimated value of goods or services to be procured. For procurements
of K15 million (about US$ 7500 in July 1998) or less, informal tenders will be invited, and
authorized for acceptance, depending on the value, by the Board Secretary, the district Education
Tender Committee, or the District tender Committee. For procurements of more than K15
million, formal tenders will be invited, and authorized for acceptance, depending on the value, by
the Provincial Tender Committee or by the Zambia National Tender Board (MoE Tender
Committee).
10.   Finance. Each DEB will establish a finance Committee chaired by the Board secretary
and an Accounting unit. The DEB will, through its Finance Committee, draw up an Annual
Budget. The Annual Budget will be submitted to the Permanent Secretary (PS), Ministry of
Education, for ministerial consideration and approval. The PS will include approved annual
budgets as grants in aid for all boards in the MoE budget, for onward transmission to the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED) for final consideration and approval.
Immediately after approval by MoFED, the Permanent Secretary, MoE, will notify Boards on the
level of grants in aid available to each of them. The PS, MoE will release funds to the Boards
individually by transfers to their bank accounts.
11.   In view of inadequate GRZ funding, schools are expected to source supplementary
income through school fees paid by parents. User fees will be determined and agreed upon by the
Boards and PTAs. Education Boards are requested to see to it that all charges payable to the
school should be consolidated into one funds, since making piecemeal and ad-hoc charges creates
inconvenience for parents. The amount of user fees agreed upon must be fair and affordable to
parents.
12.   The accounting officer of each Board will prepare financial statement which will be
ready for audit within two months of the end of the financial year. Each Board will appoint
external auditors to certify the end-of-year financial statements. The external auditors will
present their report to the Board chairperson, with copy to the PS, MoE, within three months of
the end of the financial year.



Annex 14
Page 1 of 6
Program Management
BESSIP Management Structures
General Objectives
The Ministry of Education (MoE) intends to achieve effective consultation and
coordination and the rational use of scarce resources within set priority programs consistent with
National Policy and the MoE's strategic planning framework.
Specific Objectives
*     To establish an effective mechanism for joint and unified program planning, development
and funding involving all stakeholders, the Government, donors, the private sector and
NGO's with the National Policy and Strategic Plan as the reference point.
*     To achieve the MoE's vision of reform, steering role and management control of BESSIP
in line with proposed Public Service Reform Program (PRSP) roles for the Ministry.
*     Through budget reform to continue re-orienting the Ministry Budget to the financing of
core functions, and to eventually integrate GRZ and donor funding within a common
funding arrangement.
*     To establish transparent and efficient management support systems in financial
management and accounting, procurement, information and reporting systems and
infrastructure management which are acceptable to all parties and which feed into an
effective review and reporting system.
*     To establish monitoring and evaluation system ensuring timely interventions during
program implementation as well as providing information on program performance.
The Joint Steering Committee (JSC)
Composition
The Joint Steering Committee will be chaired by the Honorable Minister or his
representative and will consist of the following members, numbering approximately 30 persons:
The Permanent Secretary and up to five other members of the Senior Management
Group. Once the PSRP has been implemented these Ministry representatives will be the
five Directors (Planning, Standards and Curriculum Development, Teacher Education
and Specialized Services, Human Resources and Administration, and Distance
Education) and the Chief Accountant.
Representatives of contributing donor partners
NGO, Private and Community School representation
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
.     Other as directed by the Committee
The MIT will act as Secretariat
Terms of Reference
The JSC will be responsible for:
Formulating Policy



Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
*     Safeguarding cross-sectoral programming in areas such as gender, school health and
nutrition and health related programs such as HIV/AIDS
*     Approving Annual Work Programs and Budgets
*     Providing leadership in the implementation and supervision of BESSIP programs
*     Coordinating and sourcing donor funds and technical assistance
*     Receiving Quarterly Progress and Financial Reports
*     Receiving Annual Progress and Financial Reports via the agreed Annual Review
*     Hosting the agreed Annual Consultative meeting with current and prospective donor
partners
Timing
The JSC shall meet semi-annually, and more often if needed.
The first meeting of every year will constitute the Annual Review meeting and will take
place in May. Annual Progress and Financial Reports for the previous year will be
presented and considered. The second meeting will constitute the Annual Consultative
meeting and will be held in November. This meeting will consider and amend/approve
the joint BES SIP Annual Work Program and Budget for the forthcoming year presented
by the MIT. It will also provide an opportunity to consider new initiatives. This meeting
may be preceded by bilateral reviews of externally-funded projects so that Reports can be
considered by the JSC. It is anticipated that this mechanism will eventually replace
bilateral consultations.
The Program Development, Implementation and Monitoring Committee (PIC)
This group will constitute the technical and advisory committee to the JSC. The JSC will
refer unresolved issues or technical problems to the PIC for resolution and reporting to the next
JSC meeting. Urgent maters can be resolved by this committee in consultation with the Chairman
of the JSC and the Permanent Secretary.
Composition
Permanent Secretary or representative: Chairman
A four person bilateral donor contact group
World Bank representative
Coordinator of MPU/SRP
MIT
The PIC may coopt other members for specific tasks
It is important that members are nominated by name and committed to regular attendance
to ensure continuity.
Terms of Reference
*     Coordination of Annual Work Programs and Budgets for the JSC
*     Review and approval of Quarterly and Annual Progress and Financial Reports for
submission to JSC
*     Coordination of technical assistance
*     Resolution of issues forwarded from the JSC
*     Monitors the MIT



Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
Timing
The PIC will meet monthly or more frequently upon occasion as circumstances dictate.
To ensure that decisions can be made, it is preferable if donor representatives are the
education/social sector counselors from the respective Embassies.
The BESSIP Management Implementation Team (MIT)
Operating Principles
Effective
Efficient
Consultative
Timely
Transparent
Non bureaucratic
Based on Value for Money principles
Composition
*     Director of Planning
*      lDesignated component mangers
*     Head, Budget and Projects section
*     Educational Planner from Budget and Projects section
*     Decentralization officer
* Equity and Gender and focal point
Head of BESSIP Accounts Unit
Head of MEPSU
TA (Educational Planning) as advisor
*     Other occasional co-opted members as appropriate
Terms of Reference
Preparing Annual Work Programs and Budgets for BESSIP
Preparing Quarterly and Annual Progress and Financial Reports
Liaising with SPBC and PIC
Coordinating the preparation of departmental (BESSIP-related) budgets and liaising with
the Financial Planner and Chief Account in respect of draft budget preparation.
Liaison with HRD in respect of capacity building and training programs
Supervising procurement activities via MEPSU
Supervising infrastructure activities via an agreed implementation methodology
Liaising with procurement and infrastructure implementers, supervisors and the National
Tenders Board
Supervising all other BESSIP activities in liaison with PIC
Ensuring gender sensitivity in all BESSIP programming
Supervising the BESSIP Accounts Office
Commissioning annual independent audits
Coordinating technical assistance with PIC
Organizing BESSIP workshops, seminars and JSC activities (including semi-Annual
Reviews)



Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
Monitoring BESSIP programming internally and via external agents
Interim Arrangements
The development of BESSIP will be guided by an interim Management Team headed by
the Deputy Permanent Secretary (Technical Cooperation). Other members will be the Head,
Budget and Projects section and the senior research officer. The interim MIT will utilize TA
provided to the Budget and Projects section where appropriate.
Donor Coordination
Under the PSRP the function of donor coordination will be transferred to the Planning
Unit and an officer appointed specifically for that function within the Budget and Projects
section. This officer will be the initial contact point for all formal and informal donor
consultations. A donor data base will be created and regularly updated.
Equity and Gender Focal Point (EGFP)
A female officer within the MIT will be designated the equity and gender focal point and
will be responsible for donor contact in this area, review of programs for gender sensitivity and
liaison with PAGE.
Decentralization
The implementation of decentralization will become a core activity of the Planning Unit
and will constitute a separate section within it staffed by a two (proposed) professional officers,
one of whom will be co-opted onto the MIT. Decentralization activities will be incorporated into
BESSIP programming. A Work Program and Budget for Decentralization will be available
shortly.
Management Information Systems
It is acknowledged that this section of the Planning Unit has performed poorly and has
not implemented NESIS as designed and intended. Th PSRP and BESSIP will provide an
opportunity to reorganize this key section of the Planning Unit so that it can perform its function
of servicing the remainder of the Ministry with up to date, reliable and consistent data and
analysis.
The BESSIP Accounts Office
The BES SIP Accounts Office will be established at MoE and be supervised by the Chief
Accountant and the chairperson of MIT. The Unit will be headed by a qualified Finance
Manager, and will include support staff with accounting and computer skills. (See Annex 6 for
more information on financial management.)
Terms of Reference
Providing guidelines in respect of sub sector priorities and finance available to facilitate
realistic planning and expenditure
Liaising closely with Main Accounts
Consolidating Annual Work Programs and Budgets with MIT
Controlling and managing expenditure in line with approved activities
Providing intemal financial reports via the computerized Expenditure Monitoring System



Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
Providing Quarterly and Annual Financial Reports for the JSC
Providing individual financial reports to donors in accordance with their requirements (it
is anticipated that a common reporting mechanism will be developed and agreed in due
course)
Facilitating periodic reviews of internal systems
Facilitating external audit
The Preparatory Fund
A preparatory fund has been established: during 1998, the activities summarized below
were initiated and supported. As BESSIP becomes more fully operational, this fund will be used
to support management activities.
National School Mapping
National Learning Achievement Baseline Survey
National School Health and Nutrition Baseline Survey
Preparation of a Human Resource Development Plan and Training Program
Phased implementation of the PSRP
Establishment and financing of the MIT, including the BESSIP Accounts Office and
strengthening of MEPSU.
Ministry of Education Procurement and Supplies Unit (MEPSU)
MEPSU is currently understaffed but provision for a full establishment is made within
the PRSP, both at HQ and decentralized levels. To fully perform its expanded role within
BESSIP it is recommended that extensive capacity building be built into its initial work
programs. Initial technical assistance will be required, particularly if contributors require
different reporting formats. This could take the form of short term technical assistance provided
via IDA or individual donors or, alternatively by contracting an international procurement agency
for a year or so to specifically train staff and establish systems on a counterpart basis.
MEPSU activities will include the following
Liaise with MIT via Director (MEPSU,), who would be a member
Liaise with the Accounts Unit
Prepare annual procurement schedules in liaison with relevant departments with the
Ministry (Standards, Teacher Education, CDC, etc.) for inclusion in BESSIP Work
Programmes
Develop a close working relationship with the Zambia National Tender Board
Participate in internal tender procedures for procurement
Develop systems for the identification and updating of inventories of book, other
educational material and furniture stocks
Develop systems for efficient distribution of books and other procured items
*     Develop a comprehensive procurement manual for decentralization
Options for Infrastructure Programs
The infrastructure component of BESSIP will be highly visible and challenging to
coordinate. Activities in this area will encompass:



Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
GRZ three year primary School Maintenance Cycle (from the Budget)
On-going rehabilitation and upgrading by MPU/SRP and Finland
Existing or already agreed donor-financed building programs such as ADB, OPEC, Irish
Aid and JICA
New building programs identified through the school mapping exercise and financed
through BESSIP (IDA and other donor financed)
The MIT will need to coordinate these different activities, and participate actively in
component Steering Committees. The role of the Building section of the Planning Unit and
ZEPIU, managing ADP and OPEC programs is not yet defined and will need serious attention
from the PIC once that committee is established. Both the Building section and ZEPIU lack
capacity to undertake this task.
ZEPIU will be brought under the control of the Planning Unit as it already manages the
ADP II and OPEC programs. Its Progress and financial reporting systems will be tightened up
and its operations subject to audit and physical monitoring. An expanded role will certainly need
short- term technical assistance to reorganize its management structure and develop reporting
systems for new donors.



Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
Progress Reporting, Semi-Annual Reviews and Performance Indicators
Government Budget Cycle. Considering that the bulk of the financial resources
available for BESSIP will continue to be provided by the Government of Zambia (GRZ), it is
essential for the BESSIP planning/monitoring/reporting cycle to be linked to the Government's
budget cycle. The GRZ fiscal year coincides with the calendar year. The GRZ budget estimates
are considered by the Cabinet in November, and in recent years have been submitted by the
Minister of Finance and Economic Development to the Parliament on the last Friday of January.
Semi-Annual Reviews and Progress Reports. Each year, there will be two Semi-
Annual Reviews of the Program. The Ministry of Education will issue a Semi-Annual Report to
the external cooperating partners at least one month in advance of the review. Each Review will
be centered around a Consultative Meeting chaired by the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of
Education will encourage external cooperating partners for basic education to limit their visits to
Zambia largely to these two period in the calendar to encourage economy and efficiency in
discussions between the Ministry and external cooperating partners, and to enable the Ministry to
get on with its business relating to basic education relatively free of distraction during the
remainder of the year.
May Review. This review will focus on the expenditures incurred and the results
achieved for the previous calendar year. The Semi-Annual Report to be circulated in advance by
the Ministry of Education will include the following:
*  MoE provisional actual expenditures (it is not expected that an audit report would be already
be available) for the previous year.
3 BES SIP expenditures, broadly defined, for the previous year.
*  Results achieved in the BESSIP National programs and pilot programs.
*  Results relating to basic education of the Annual School Survey conducted in February of the
previous year. Results will be distinguished according to the recognized types of
schools (GRZ, Grant-Aided, Proprietary, Community) as set out in the Standards and
Evaluation Guidelines and according to urban/rural as agreed between the MoE and
the CSO.
November Review. This review will be undertaken after a reasonable degree of
agreement has been reached between the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development and
the Ministry of Education concerning the GRZ budget likely to be available for the Ministry of
Education in the forthcoming year. The main purpose will be to discuss the Work Program and
Budget for the upcoming year. The Semi-Annual Report to be circulated in advance by the
Ministry of Education will include the following:
*  Estimated BESSIP expenditures for the current year, based on actuals for the first six months
and estimates for the remaining six months, and a report on audited BESSIP expenditures for
the previous year.
*  The draft budget of ministry of Education for the forthcoming year.
*  This will include the targets being aimed at for the forthcoming year in the BESSIP National
Programs and pilot programs. The financing will include the draft GRZ budget, non-Basket
programs in support of basic education (ZECAB, ZATERP, AIEMS, PAGE, JICA,
Microprojects Unit, etc.) and the Ministry's proposals for utilization of BESSIP funds for the
forthcoming year.
In all major financial tables, data will be presented in both U.S. dollars and Zambian Kwacha.



Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
Performance Indicators for BESSIP
Narrative Summary    Base:    April         Nov.         April       Nov.        April        Nov.        April       Nov.          Means of             Critical
line     1999        1999         2000       2000         2001        2001        2002        2002         Verification        Assumptions
Overal Program Management
Financial
Financial allocations                                                                                                            Project & Finance   Increased
Office Data         Funding for
~~ij~~ation~~Y'  ..-~~~-                                                                   Q~~~ta~~lm8!Init) ~~ MOE &BESSIP
(i) Allocation (% of              /                                                'I
supply budget)
__ .    _     . ....  . ...........   .  . .... ................  ........ ............. ....... . ....  ..... .. .......... . ...........  .    .........   .. .....   ...... . .....   ....._  
(ii) Post-supplement
aries allocation (%/6)                                                                                                ___
Funds released                     /                                                                                             Project & Finance   Macroeconomic
% of approved                                                                                                                    Office Data          stability
allocation                                                                                                                       (Planning Unit)
Funds used                                                  V                                    VI                              MOE Accounts
% of funds released                                                                                                              Records
and of donor funds
Restructuring                  _
MOE HQ                         Director    Final MOE   All new      Director-
Planning    restructur-   Directorat  ates fully
appointed  ing plan     es in place  staffed
District Ed. Boards                        Proposals    DEBs        Reports     DEBs         Reports    Board        Proposals
for phased   start in xx   on Board   extended to  on Board   operations  for further
starting     Districts    operations  zx Districts  operations  evaluated   Board
extension
Program
Management
JSC Meetings
(i) Documents distri-                                      ?/ -/
buted in good time.
(ii) Meeting held as                            /_
arranged
(iii) Follow-up action                                                                          VI
report from previous
meeting.                                    ___                      _
PIC Activities                 Progress   Progress    Progress   Progress   Progress    Progress
Report    Report        Report      Report    Report         Report
MIT Activities                 Progress   Progress    Progress   Progress   Progress    Progress
Report    Report        Report      Report    Report         Report



Annex 15
Page 3 of 4
Program Objectives
Narrative    Baseline    April     Nov.      April     Nov.      April     Nov.      April     Nov.       Means of           Critical
Summary                  1999      1999      2000      2000      2001      2001      2002      2002      Verification      Assumptions
Enrolment
Increawe_ _ _ _ _                                                                      _ _ _ _
Grade 1-7      1,506,650   1,628,000  1,628,000  1,692,000  1,692,000  1,758,000  1,758,000  1,827,000  1,827,000  School  Quick return and
Enrolment      (19%)                                                                                      Returns'        processing of more
April:         easily completed
Provisional    School Return Forms
Nov.: Final
Grade 1        249,000    278,000   278,000   305,000   305,000   350,000   350,000   405,000   405,000   School returns   More Grade 1 places
Enrolment                                                                                                                in GRZ, community,
private schools
Dropout        75,000               70,000              60,000              50,000              40,000    School returns,  Improved school
final (Nov. each  quality & less
year)          demanding school
costs lead to reduced
dropout
Repetition     98,000               80,000              70,000              60,000              50,000    School returns,  Improved school
final (Nov. each  quality and better
year)          learning lead to less
repetition
Progression2   88%                  90%                 92%                 94%                 95%
(1995/96)  ____                                               ____
GER            93%                  96%
(LCMS)              (MOE)
96%
(MOE)                                                                                                                   _
NER            69%                  85%                 87%                 89%                 91%       School returns,  Expansion of Grade I
(LCMS)              (MOE)                                                                 final (Nov. each  opportunities will
84%                                                                                       year)           enable more 7-year-
(MOE)                                                                                                     olds to enter school
and gradually
increase the NER
1 School returns are given as verification source throughout. LCMS data will give a 1998 baseline, but because of the National Census to be take in 2000 it seems
unlikely that there will be a LCMS survey that year. Hence it seems that LCMS will not be in a position to provide enrolment data during the actual lifetime of BESSIP.
Census data (when available) will provide some check on school returns.
2 The number in Grades 2-7 in any year compared with the numbers in Grade 1-6 the previous year (less repeaters). Since all those in Grade 1-6 should proceed into
Grade 2-7, this gives a global picture of within-primary progression.



Annex 15
Page 4 of 4
Program Objectives I
Narrative    Base   April        Nov.       April      Nov.      April      Nov.      April       Nov.            Means of               Critical
Summary       -line   1999       1999        2000      2000       2001      2001       2002       2002           Verification         Assumptions
Learning
Achievement
Improved Pupil                 Baseline:                                                                        purpose designed     Application of literacy
Performance in                 (i) Gr. 1/2                                                                      reading tests for Gr.   tests for Gr. 1/2
Reading &                       literac3;                                                                       1/2;                 possible.
Reading &  literacy3;                                                      results from TTC      TTCs enabled to
Arithmetic                     (ii) TTC4ested                                                                   testing of neighboring   conduct annual testing
local samples                                                                   schools;             in small samples of
(Grade 4)4                                                                      NAS results (for     local schools (building
1999);              up Grade-specific and
SACMEQ II results    longitudinal data)
_____                          ______  ___________          ___________                        for  2000
(i) Gr. 1/2                                                                      1                     1
reading  levels  __  __                           _  __                        _ _  _ __                           _  _  _ _  _ _ _
(ii) reading &                                         TTC Gr.4             TTC Gr. 4            TTC Gr. 4,5
arithlnetic                                            samples              and 5                and 6 samples
performance                                                                 samples
(iii) TTC            (iii) TTC           (iii) Gr. 6
Gr.5                 Gr. 6               reading levels
baseline             baseline             compared
(iii) NAS            established         with 1995
data as                                  (SACMEQ I)
baseline                        I                                           I__
3 Some indication of learning achievement, and changes over time, can be obtained from reading tests applied to Grade I and 2 pupils in the schools where initial
literacy in a local language is being piloted (and later in more schools, under the DFID supported Primary Reading Programme). Because these will be purpose-chosen
pilot schools, the results will not be generalisable nationally, but they will give some indication of reading levels, and changes over time, in lower grades.
4 It is proposed that each TTC should develop a regular testing programme in a small sample of its local schools (5 to 10 schools). In the first year Grade 4 pupils would
be tested; the following year Grades 4 & 5; the next year Grades 4, 5 & 6; and the final year Grades 4, 5, 6 & 7. Testing would be in reading (English) and arithmetic.
The same core test items would be used each year, but for each higher grade some additional, higher level items would be included. This would give grade-specific and
longitudinal information on performance. The results would not be generalisable because (a) the schools would not be selected at random, and (b) there can be little
control on the test administration. But the tests would give some indication of learning achievement in reading and arithmetic at a number of points across the country
and in a number of different grades.



Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
Education Structures and Curriculum in Zambia
Education Structures
The Zambia system of formal education consists of nine years of basic education, followed
by three years of high school education, and thereafter from two to five years of tertiary education.
This structure is illustrated below. Children aged seven are enrolled in Grade 1 and are expected to
complete seven Grades. Each child is charged K500 for a school fund, although MoE policy does
not allow schools to bar children because of non-payment. In addition, every school charges PTA
(Parent-Teacher Association) levies and most expect children to buy uniforms. BESSIP
concentrates on the old primary school cycle (Grades 1 to 7) in accordance with the objectives of
"Educating Our Future": to provide access to reasonable quality of education for all children in the
7 - 13 age group. This cycle is divided into two: Grades 1 - 4 called lower basic, and Grades 5 - 7
called middle basic. The education system is administered by the Ministry of Education, which
manages the vast majority of primary and secondary schools and provides funds to the two
Universities as well as administering the bursaries scheme for university students. A small number
of private middle basic and basic schools, and a larger number of secondary schools (for-profit,
Church and community) are also regulated by the Ministry. About twenty-two post secondary
institutions are administered by the Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training, most
offering trades courses. However, three institutions offer professional level courses in areas such
as Pharmacy, engineering and medical laboratory science.
Subjects and Time Allocation
For Grades 1 - 4, the curriculum covers five main subject areas. These are English,
Zambian language, mathematics, social studies, environmental science, and a number of minor
subjects including music, physical education, art and design, industrial arts and home economics.
It is intended that instruction in the Grade I will concentrate on literacy in a Zambian language and
that English will be introduced gradually over the next three Grades (this has been introduced on an
experimental basis in 24 schools in 1998 and will be extended in 1999). Children receive no more
than 3.5 hours of instruction daily (teachers at this level teach two Grades) or 17.5 hours weekly.
Children are expected to attend school for 180 days a year giving a total maximum annual hours of
instruction of 630 hours (though the actual is estimated to be less than 500 hours). The
recommended breakdown of the time allocation per week in Grade 1 is Zambian language: 3.5
hours, mathematics: 3, social studies: 2, environmental science: 2, English: 1, and other subjects: 6.
The recommended hourly breakdown in Grades 2, 3 and 4 is English: 3, Zambian language: 3,
mathematics: 3, environmental science: 2, social studies: 1, and other subjects: 5.5. For Grades 5 -
7, the curriculum covers six main subject areas (home economics is added) and the same number of
minors (1 hour of instruction cach weekly). The expected hours of instruction are 6 daily and 30
weekly, giving a total of 900 hours annually. The recommended breakdown is as follows: English:
4.7, mathematics: 4, Zambian language: 4.7, environmental science: 3.3, social studies: 2.7 home
economics: 2, and all other subjects one hour each.
Textbooks and Syllabi
With support from ZERP, the curriculum was reviewed during the period 1993 - 1996.
Recommended changes were reflected in revised syllabuses for each subject and the printed
syllabuses were distributed to all schools in 1997 and 1998. At the same time, new textbooks



Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
(some adapted from older textbooks, others rewritten completely) were written by the Curriculum
Development Centre staff and proof- ready copies prepared. Publishers bid to print and publish
these titles which are now being delivered to all Zambian schools (with initial support from ZERP
and subsequently from Norway). In addition, commercial publishers were encouraged to publish
textbooks using the syllabuses. These books were submitted to CDC for classification as approved
and recommended books. CDC publishes a list of these books annually.
Examinations
The Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) is administered by the Examinations
Council of Zambia at the end of Grade 7 and about 30% of the candidates are selected to move on
to Grades 8 and 9. The examination is multiple choice and five papers are administered: English,
Zambian language, mathematics and special papers 1 and 2 to cover other subjects. The ECZ
received a good deal of support under ZERP and the efficiency of administering the PSLE has
improved significantly as has the selection of questions. Following completion of Grade 9 the
Junior Certificate examination is administered which selects about 50% of the students for Grades
10, 11 and 12. To mark the completion of Grade 12 and to assist selection into tertiary
institutions, a Secondary School Completion examination is administered.



STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
YEAR
24                                                                                                   .
23
22   _              i L____
21                                D   =                                                           _
19                       B                M   D
18                                B
17                           ___B
16                     B                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~0
AGE                                                     FI   1 SCHOOL
9 +-                                 E                  AI     
C.    nierit edPEcaBion:
D _ Dotrt                 4.er - Ordnar
6 _ D _ [:m MIDDLE BASIC
M       atr                  er  Eninerng Agric---ure,-et-
3         1-4[1_||_                                  
(D                                                            -3- ----_I-----| _
-   I                                     ~~~~~~~PRE - SCHOOL EDUCATION
NiOTES                                             Figure 1
A.    Various vocational training programmes,
B.      various training prograrnmes,
C.    University education:
D = Doctorate           4.years - Ordinary
M = Master              5 years - Engineering, Agriculture, etc. 
B = Bachelor            6 years - Veterinary Science.
7 years - Medicine.
In A and B there are also some courses which take less than 2 years.



Annex 17
Page 1 of3
National Measurement of Educational Achievement
"Children who complete the lower and middle basic levels are not exhibiting the expected
fundamental reading, writing and numeracy skills. There is extensive rote learning geared
largely to the memorization offacts, simplyfor the purpose ofpassing examinations. School-
based assessments are insufficiently used as tools for the improvement of learning and teaching
and are largely ignored in selection decisions for higher levels .., the Ministry of Education has the
obligation to ensure that the manyfactors that contribute to quality in education - the curriculum
and its associated materials, the actual teaching methodologies, the assessment processes, school
supervision, the management structures, the infrastructure - are such that they will indeed
promote effective teaching and learning." Educating Our Future, 1996
Background. The World Conference on Education for All underlined the importance of
measuring learning outcomes to determine the quality of education systems. Commentators such
as Lockheed; Murphy, Greaney, Lockheed and Rojas; and Greaney and Kellaghan; have reported
on global efforts to do this. Measuring educational inputs is not sufficient to define the quality of
an educational system. Students in schools with little resources often achieve good learning
outcomes, while able students in well-endowed schools do not. Not enough is known about the
factors that contribute to learning achievement: the mix of school inputs may be more important
than the quantity. Zambia is no different from many other developing countries in the paucity of
information on learning outcomes. While there is a good deal of agreement that the quality of
education is declining, there is little hard evidence of this. Certainly, the proxies used to measure
educational quality: number of dropouts, number of repeaters, number of textbooks, availability
of trained teachers; indicate that there are problems with the quality of education in Zambia.
Measurement of Educational Achievement in Zambia. Until recently there has been
little hard data on children's learning achievement in Zambia. A study by Williams in a few
schools near Lusaka in 1992 indicated that children's reading skills were very low. However, this
study was not representative. In 1997, under the auspices of the Southern African Consortium for
Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ) and with support from the International Institute of
Educational Planning (IIEP) a national assessment was carried out on the performance in reading
of children attending Grade 6 in Zambia. The test instrument was carefully designed and the
sample of schools and pupils scientifically chosen to be representative of all the groups of interest
in Zambia. Following design and field testing of the test items, a group of educators, including
Grade 6 teachers and reading specialists determined what would be a minimum level of
performance and a desirable level of performance for Zambian children. Tests were conducted
on 2,558 pupils in 157 schools in the nine provinces and the results analyzed. The mean score on
the essential items of the reading test for Zambia was 18.3 out of a possible score of 46. The
analysis further revealed that only 25% of the pupils attained the level of competence which
Zambian teachers assessed as being the minimum necessary for the Grade, while a staggering
97.6% of them failed to attain the level assessed as desirable by Zambian teachers. A number of
features are remarkable about this study. First, the test instrument was very carefully designed as
was the sample of children chosen. Second, the expertise which was gained in this exercise is
now available in Zambia. Third, the information available provides valuable data for
policymakers on achievement in reading across provinces, socio-economic levels and gender.
A second exercise of relevance for the measurement of educational achievement is
currently being conducted in Zambia. Under the auspices of the Examinations Council of Zambia
(ECZ) and funded by IDA through ZERP, basic competencies in literacy and numeracy at Grade
4 are being defined and assessed. Among the purposes of the exercise are: to develop an
integrated/holistic assessment model capable of measuring basic competencies; and to establish a



Annex 17
Page 2 of 3
cost and time effective procedure that provides schools and teachers with immediate feedback on
their pupils' performances. The aim is to set national norms, develop test instruments which
measure these norms and assist teachers to diagnose children's achievement levels. A second
purpose is to enable MoE and Education Boards to monitor literacy and numeracy attainments.
Measuring Learning Over Time. In order to determine whether the children of one
year are achieving more or less than the children of another year, it is necessary to administer the
same test to a sample of children from each year. The question: are children studying English in
Grade 4 in 1996 achieving more or less than children studying English in the same Grade in
1990; can only be answered if both groups of children have been given the same test and the
results compared. Public examinations don't do this. Public examinations most often compare
the achievements of individual children with the achievements of their peers. This is in order to
select for the next level of education. School-based assessments don't answer the question either.
These are most often designed to help teachers diagnose individual student learning needs. Both
public examinations and school-based assessments can be used to help educational administrators
and professionals compare schools. However, in order to compare the performance of different
groups of children in different years, it is necessary to administer the same test to a sample of
children in each of the years. It is not necessary to test all the children studying in Grade 4 to get
the answer, it is only necessary to test a samnple. If Zambia wishes to compare the quality of
education now with the quality of provision in the future, it will be important to measure
achievement of children in different subjects at different grade levels in Zambia, and to repeat this
measurement in future years. A sample-based national assessment of educational achievement in
Zambia can also be designed to answer a number of other questions. For example, are girls doing
better than boys in 1990? Are girls in 1996 doing better that girls in 1990? Are the students of
Eastern Province doing as well as the students from Central Province? Are students in rural
districts performing as well as students from urban districts? Is the gap narrowing over time?
A Plan for Zambia. In order to determine the process of developing a national
assessment in Zambia, a workshop was organized by the World Bank and ECZ on 5 and 6
February, 1998. The workshop brought together a group of experts and policymakers from
within and outside Zambia to develop a plan to carry out a national assessment in Zambia in
1998. In addition to senior policymakers from MoE, including the Minister of Education, the
workshop involved staff from UNZA, ECZ, the Curriculum Development Centre, the
Inspectorate and the Planning Unit, MoE. The workshop learned from experiences with national
and international assessments around the world, examined the SACMEQ study and learned of the
testing of basic competencies in Grade 4. Subsequently, the participants determined a plan for
the national assessment including:
determining the steering committee;
determining the subjects and grades to be tested;
assigning the tasks of test design and development, field-testing, sample design, test
administration, data analysis and cleaning and report writing; and
setting the parameters to be examined.
The University of Zambia, the Planning Unit in MoE and the ECZ agreed to cooperate to design
and implement the national assessment. During the meeting, it was planned that the first national
assessment would be administered in October, 1998, and the results made available to
policymakers, parents, teachers' union and provincial and district officials in January, 1999.
Subsequently, it was agreed that this would not be possible and the first assessment is now
planned for 1999.



Annex 17 
Page 3 of 3
Progress to Date. The Ministry of Education approved the establishment of a Steering
Committee to oversee the implementation of the first national assessment in Zambia. The
Steering Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary has representatives from the University
of Zambia, Central Statistical Office, Ministry of Education Planning Unit, Chief Inspector's
office, Curriculum Development Centre and the Examinations Council of Zambia. The
secretariat is provided by ECZ. The Steering Committee has met on three occasions since its
establishment. It approved the first national assessment to cover English, two Zambian languages
and mathematics at Grade 5 to take place in 1999, 2002 and 2005. (It was not considered
possible to conduct the first assessment in 1998.) The Steering Committee also approved a
budget for the first exercise. The costs of the first two phases (to December 1998) are being met
from a Japanese grant administered by the World Bank. Costs in 1999 are being met by a grant
from UNICEF and support from the BESSIP Preparatory Fund. The test papers in English,
Zarnbian languages and mathematics have been developed in cooperation with the Curriculum
Development Centre and the ECZ and were field-tested in October. The sample frame was
designed by staff of the Central Statistical Office. A data entry program is planned. It is intended
that an experienced external agency be contracted to support and advise the secretariat and the
Steering Committee and a number of agencies are currently being identified. Zambia has also
agreed to continue as a member of SACMEQ and testing in English and mathematics at Grade 6
will be conducted in 2000. During the period, the Coordinator of the National Assessment and a
Planning Officer in the Ministry of Education are attending training coursed organized by
SACMEQ.



Annex 18
Page 1 of 3
Selected Statistics on Primary Education in Zambia
Table 1 Primary School Enrollment, Boys and Girls, 1990-1996
.  i                _~~.
Province             Total~~~.........  Girlrls
, , , - ,9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ... . .  ,...... . ..... ...
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ' _:.-_. . ...
'.- . ',P,'    ..   ...'. .,...,   ,. ''.'''''.'''i...
...  .-   >...... .- - 
I l ....................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . .   . . . .. ..... ...B
I I ___ "' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .....   i...' i 
Copperbelt                        294982              50%
Central                           164884             48%
Lusaka                            195478             50%
Southem                          204840              49%
Luapula                           109560             46%
Northemr                          188134              44%
Eastemr                           154061             45%
North Westemr                       83254             46%
Westem|  111457                                       48%
Total                           1506650               48%
Source: Planning Unit, MOE



30N 'Thn sUTUUUId :maIos
g QJ4 'ipiflaUTuU1c :mxnos
! 0    0                    t t t  X  :gg:.::     ..................................................................-..................  ... .................. 
........ ,,f1; , SSX ll:|ggESlllElElEtf tlt T X!XlXllllllg ........................... ...............   ..........
.   ..   .......................................  .   ,   _   . _   .     .   _       ............................................................ _._
>E d P w w w......... wW . .......S . w ... N w . ,,, .............  A . i. K ...... ASu .A H ......... .. i A A  A *; ,;i 1A , .................-
.............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~,-.
. . . . . . . . 
9661~~~~EEREERtSEREEEE' 'jl#i!iESESpu;  'HH' SE   Aq 'iwAoJ  'q s'0'v)3E )n o IU  jooqE,  &Iui uu £LE ' 'j
Hi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..AH. .  .  -.h .v. . .- ;-H>.--------' _-   .S  ?i
Eld +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . I xi. . .i .- .                      .EEE#E . -. EEEEE-EE  --EE E:--
s., _o §   iERE)   T-24  i:  E iEEEEEEEEEEE  .......S
...1. 1. ...  I
...  E g j  SEE  iE  iS:  ig  g g iS  g EE   ;..........................
,lE iEE E , ~~~~~~. . . . .  . . . .,. ,   ,    
gfY9ffiE:jNjffiREgRag,,, : :., :-:   ..... EEiR-,, #E - 
Dl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9661 sJapuaD  liq saawAoJd Xq SaXsu Inodosa  looqas fiBWLIa  s alq8,t,~~~~~~~..........
£ §0 z aSed~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........
81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    .....



Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
Table 5 Reading Achievement of Grade 6 Pupils, November, 1995
% Reaching the    % Reaching the
Minimum Mastery  Desirable Mastery
Level             Level
Copperbelt              29.7               2.3
Central                  16.9              0.9
Lusaka                  30.1               1.9
Southern                 16.0              3.2
Luapula                 32.8               4.3
Northern                 26.0              1.5
Eastem                  25.1               2.0
North Western            27.3              6.8
Western                  33.0              2.1
Boys                    28.0               2.5
Girls                   23.1               2.2
Total                   25.8               2.4
Source: PAGE, MOE



MAP SECTION



24
ee e                   - - +T    A                                           N   Z     A   N   I  A
t ~~~~~~~~Z   A    M    B   I  A                                                                                                                                   T.< Mba aT by
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS           RIVERS *
- RAILROADS                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                - 4 .
*       A                    o   SEIECTED CITIES                 INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
))  PROVINCE CAPITAIS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
DEM. REP. OF CONGO
MANSA
A  N  G O   L AK y N R T Hi <                                                             C                                   I                                                          /
W     E  S  T   E  sRilN              5          auuta         O     A|                  e     e     F   
|   P  P  E  R                                                                      A         Lu ,.    E   T0/0
R        ttm (                      8ss   \                  0;7pereMposhl                          <         E A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S T f,ll
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h WodOe   E                                        Seg To, El RNT VhSKe old Roo
\  1tS                                 1; Pemho       o                    Z  I M   B  A   B  W    E                             l      \\ tABAep V~~~~~~ A M 
\ >Muobez ,~~K -                                              C EomsTRA MdA B'L'.AI  ,
oopoooPoepooebYAd O,,,             ,                                                               KENYA
MONG    A   l B I A                         *, =N                               e  I                    ffe W                                            SOUTH AFRICAU
af0                                              BT S W ANA               *-                            ,. orooceplce of UsAKA L  UoO eS   A   KO



