                            Document of
                        The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR000048




  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    ( IDA-31900 IDA-3190A )




                              ON A

             LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                       US$ MILLION 35.59

                 (SDR 25.86 MILLION CREDIT)

                               TO

                             Zambia

                              FOR

           Basic Education Subsector Investment Program




                         January 12, 2007




AFT: Human Development 1
WB Office: Maputo AO/MZ
AFRICA

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 07/20/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = ZK
                                   ZK 1.00 = US$ 4454.9383
                                  US$ 1.00 = ZK 0.00022446


                                       Fiscal Year
                               January 1 to December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program of Lending
BESSIP Basic Education Subsector Investment Program
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA Danish International Development Agency
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
DEB    District Education Board
DPL    Development Policy Lending
DfID   Department for International Development (UK)
EU     European Union
GRZ    Government of Republic of Zambia
IDA    International Development Association
ISR    Implementation Status Report
JICA   Japan International Cooperation Agency
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MPU    Micro Projects Unit
MoE    Ministry of Education
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
OPEC   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAGE   Program for the Advancement of Girls Education
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PWAS   Public Welfare assistance Scheme
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
SACMEQ Southern Africa Consortium for Measurement of Education Quality
SIDA   Swedish International Development Association
TVET   Technical Vocational Education and Training
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
USAID  United States Aid for International Development

ZERP  Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project




         Vice President: Gobind T. Nankani

       Country Director: Michael Baxter

        Sector Manager: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka

    Project Team Leader: Bruce N. Jones

                                                       Zambia
                    Basic Education Subsector Investment Program




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 14
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 17
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 30
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 31
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 33
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 34
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 35
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 36
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 37
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 39
Annex 13. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 40
13.1 Summary of Consultations During BESSIP Preparation...................................... 40
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 41

1. Basic Information
                                                                      Basic Education
Country:                Zambia                Project Name:           Subsector Investment
                                                                      Program

Project ID:             P003249               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-31900,IDA-
                                                                      3190A
ICR Date:               01/23/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:               GOVT OF ZAMBIA
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 28.5M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 25.9M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/16/1997           Effectiveness:    09/21/1999         09/21/1999
Appraisal:         09/12/1998        Restructuring(s):                    04/05/2001
Approval:          04/08/1999        Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:          06/30/2002         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  Yes           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before                Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                           20                3
Sub-national government administration                      10
Primary education                                           59               78
Secondary education                                                          19
Tertiary education                                          10
Health                                                       1
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                         Secondary        Secondary
Child health                                   Secondary        Secondary
Education for all                              Primary          Primary
Access to urban services and housing           Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure              Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                 At ICR         At Approval

Vice President:                               Gobind T.        Callisto E.
                                              Nankani          Madavo

Country Director:                             Michael Baxter   Phyllis R.
                                                               Pomerantz

Sector Manager:                               Dzingai B.
                                              Mutumbuka        Ruth Kagia

Project Team Leader:                          Bruce N. Jones   Bruce N. Jones
ICR Team Leader:                              Dandan Chen
ICR Primary Author:                           Yidan Wang




                                          2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Zambia embarked a series of policy reforms in the 90's after experiencing a long period
of economic decline. However, despite substantial achievements in liberalization and
establishing a market-based economy, sustained growth remained elusive. In education,
the stagnant enrollment rates and the poor learning outcomes were two key issues, which
were affected by the shortage and poor conditions of classrooms, lack of teaching and
learning materials, and limited number of programs to support the education of the poor.
Prevalent malnourishment and poor health condition of many children led to poor
readiness to learn at school. In the meantime, domestic financing of education was
extremely constrained by the unfavorable macro conditions. School fees kept the
children from poor households out of school. In addition, external aids were fragmented
and their effectiveness was in question.

Aimed at reforming macro policies and stimulating growth, in 1998 the Government
reached agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank on a
three year (1999-2001) macroeconomic and fiscal framework, to be supported by a
structural adjustment credit from the Bank, and an "Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility" (ESAF) arrangement with the IMF.

In the meantime, the Government put in place sector investment programs in education
and health in order to reverse the decline of social sector performance and reduce
poverty. The education sector reform was guided by the Government's policy document:
"Educating Our Future: National Policy on Education" (1996), which focused on
providing relevant basic education of good quality to all children. Strategies and plans
for a "Basic Education Sub-Sector Investment Program (BESSIP)" were developed over
a three year period. The process was led by the Ministry of Education, with support from
multilateral and bilateral financing agencies and key stakeholders. The preparation
process culminated in an agreed Joint Appraisal Report in September 1998.

The Bank's involvement in supporting the basic education in Zambia was consistent with
the Country Assistant Strategy (CAS, 1996). The overriding CAS objective was poverty
reduction through increasing targeted assistance to the poor and improving public sector
efficiency in social service delivery. The CAS envisaged an education sector program
providing a policy framework which would allow greater access and improved quality of
primary services to benefit the poor.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)




                                              3

The main objectives of BESSIP as stated in the Program Appraisal Document (PAD)
dated March 5, 1999, and reflected in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated
May 11, 1999, were to: (1) provide relevant education for all children in relevant age
range and particularly for disadvantaged groups, with gross enrollment rates increase to
100% and net enrollment rates increase to 90%; (2) improve learning outcomes for all
children with achievement scores in ongoing national assessment showing improvement
over scores in preceding assessments.

The IDA support to the Government's BESSIP was prepared and presented to the Board
as a two-stage APL. It was envisaged that APL1 with a credit of US$ 40 million would
be disbursed from 1999 through 2002, while APL2 with a credit of US$ 60 million
would be disbursed through 2006. The development objectives above are thus
"program" objectives, using 2005 as the target year.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


By the time the first Implementation Status Report (ISR) was prepared in 1999, the task
team realized that there were considerable uncertainties about Zambia's demography,
with diverse estimates of HIV/AIDS prevalence and mortality, and with available
projections only based on the census of 1990. Accordingly, the following DOs were
used for ISR reporting before the 2000 population census data was available in 2003:(1)
Accelerate enrollment growth to 4% per annum, with reduced disparities in enrollment;
(2) Improve learning achievement, with reduced disparities among groups, as measured
by the National Assessments of Educational Achievement to be carried out in 1999 and
in 2001.

The DCA amendment in April 2001 did not amend the original objectives, relating to
education in Grades 1-7. The amendment included this addition to the first paragraph of
Schedule 2 of the DCA: "The Project also supports the construction of two secondary
schools in the Borrower's Eastern Province". This was recorded in the DCA amendment
letter dated April 5, 2001.

This amendment is in response to the government's request to complete the construction
of the two secondary schools. These two secondary schools were left substantially
incomplete (only 10% done) from the closed Fifth Education Project (P003180, closed in
March 1988) due to portfolio-wide suspension of disbursement by the Bank, after GRZ
had faulted on debt service due to the Bank.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)



                                            4

The primary target beneficiaries are the children of basic education age groups,
particularly those from rural and poor households where schools were not accessible and
affordable. The teachers in basic schools also benefit as they will be supported in
improving their qualification and teaching capacity.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

BESSIP had five main components:

(a) Primary Teaching/Learning/Readiness component covered classroom
teaching/learning, and related support to enable children at risk to attend school and
persist in school. Four sub-components included the following:
        (a1) Instructional Material sub-component supported textbooks supply and
        capacity building in decentralization of responsibilities for textbooks selection
        and purchase to schools;
        (a2) School health and nutrition sub-component supported a baseline study of
        school children's health and nutrition, and pilot interventions on food
        supplementation, micro-nutrient provision, and de-worming;
        (a3) Equity and bursaries sub-component expanded the bursaries to girls under
        the "Program for the Advancement of Girl's Education" to all provinces. It also
        supports the schooling of the "children at risk";
        (a4) Teacher's deployment and compensation sub-component supported teacher
        employment and deployment, covering the teachers' salaries and other
        compensation.
(b) Primary school infrastructure supported demand-driven community construction
modality managed by Micro Projects Unit of the Ministry of Finance.

(c) Teacher training components included the implementation of a comprehensive pre-
service and in-service teacher education reform program; provision of accelerated in-
service training to teachers delivered through Provincial and District Resource Centers;
and rehabilitation of teacher training colleges.

(d) Curriculum development component supported the revision of basic school
curriculum to emphasized the core skills of literacy and numeracy; and the design,
piloting of new instrument for curriculum and learning assessment.

(e) Administration and capacity building component supported training and advisory
services to assist the MoE in restructuring, decentralization, improving planning,
monitoring and evaluation functions and strengthening EMIS.

The total BESSIP cost was estimated at USD 340 million for 1999, 2000, and 2001, with
USD 167 million financed by GRZ, 40 million by IDA, and 127 million by other
development partners including ADB, DANIDA, EU, DfID, Finland, Irish Aid, JICA,
Netherlands, Norway, OPEC, SIDA, UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, and WFP. There was a
financing gap of USD 6 million in 2001 at appraisal.



                                             5

IDA financing at appraisal was mainly for infrastructure and furniture or equipment
(55% of IDA credit) and learning materials (12 % of IDA credit). IDA credit also
included 25% of "unallocated" expenditure category, allowing flexibility of spending as
the "last resort" if donor shifted spending priorities during the implementation.

6.6 Revised Components


The component "(f) construction of Kafumbwe and Lumezi secondary schools" was
added, and an amendment of DCA to enable reallocation of Credit funds to be devoted to
the completion of these two schools was approved by the Board in March 2001.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

APL2 is no longer in the pipeline currently, mainly due to the lowered IDA ceiling for
Zambia after it reached HIPC completion point in 2005. Through the process of
developing a "joint Assistance Strategy for Zambia (JASZ)", Bank has reached
agreement with the Government and donors on shifting its aid focus to providing
advisory services in the education sector, given that there are a large number of bilateral
donors in the sector and their potentially increased financing support.

The original design left 25% of the IDA Credit as "unallocated" in order to provide
flexibility in supporting the Government's program when unforeseen financing gap came
up during implementation. The original and reallocated expenditure allocations are as
the following:
                            At appraisal  Re-allocated
 Civil works                    46%          62%
 Goods/equipment/furniture      9%           13%
 Consultancy                    4%           2%
 Educational materials          12%          20%
 Bursaries                      0%           0%
 Operational cost               2%           1%
 PPF                            1%           1%
 Unallocated                    25%          0%
 Total                         100%         100%


The increased allocation to civil works and goods was mostly owing to the construction
and furnishing of two secondary schools following the DCA amendment. Allocation to
providing educational materials, mainly textbooks, also increased from 12% to 20% of
the total Credit amount.

The IDA credit also extended three times. The first extension of closing date was from
June 30, 2002 to June 30, 2003. The memorandum from TTL to CD stated that the


                                              6

justifications for this extension included: (1) the shorter than norm implementation
period for an investment credit; (2) the restructuring and personnel change in MoE; and
(3) the implementation delay in completing the two secondary schools.

There were two additional extensions of closing date first to June 30, 2005 and further to
June 30, 2006. The justification for these extensions was mainly regarded as to complete
the two secondary schools construction, which experienced significant delays.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


BESSIP responded to the Government's priorities and CAS objectives of improving basic
service delivery to the poor. BESSIP aimed at providing learning opportunities to pupils
who were excluded from basic education and improving the education quality. The focus
not only sharpened the project's design but also emphasized basic education's strategic
position in poverty reduction.

The design of BESSIP is technically sound. It was underpinned by the lessons learned
from the past project implementation experience, and involved many of the key
practitioners in Zambia education. The successful interventions on textbooks, school
construction, and headteacher training, carried out under Zambia Education
Rehabilitation Project (ZERP, P003200, closed in 1998) were carried forward under
BESSIP. School construction fully utilized the successful approach of community-
driven school construction and maintenance. Design of the national assessment also
relied on Zambia's experience of participation in the first round of SACMEQ in 1997.
Design for girl's scholarship drew experience and scaled up the "Program for the
Advancement of Girl's Education" implemented earlier in the country.

Coordinated donor support to BESSIP was well-conceived. The coordinated donor
support responded to long-waited harmonization in the sector. It was also proved a vital
step-stone to extend the harmonized support by external donors to Government's overall
strategy of reforming the whole sector later on.

The design of BESSIP also relied substantially on a participatory approach. All key
stakeholders were involved in the consultation and design of BESSIP. A summary of
consultations that took place is attached in Annex 13.

One caveat of the design is that it was too ambitious to complete all the implementation
activities envisaged during phase one within 3-year period (September1999 effectiveness
to June 2002 closing). Given that the total program nearly doubled MoE's external
funding from 20% to nearly 40% of total MoE expenditure between 1997-98 and 1999-



                                                7

2002, the expectations of MoE's absorption capacity were too optimistic. Albeit
substantial risks were identified with regard to MoE's limited capacity, the mitigation
measures recommended including expediting MoE's restructuring and pursuing dialogue
on the overall civil service effectiveness were not sufficient in a relatively short
timeframe of the Credit at appraisal.

The second caveat is related to the selection of lending instrument. Given a holistic
program at start and much needed funding flexibility during implementation, an
investment lending instrument, which by definition links funding to specific expenditures
may not be the most appropriate, even though the concerns on the
borrower's management capacity for fiduciary compliance were legitimate at the time.
The IDA's investment lending was not able to adapt to the changes in the sector quickly:
while the Government's BESSIP ceased to exist by end 2002 and replaced by an overall
sector program for 2003-2007 and all other donors started to support the new sector
program, Bank's BESSIP support project lasted until 2006, with narrowed support after
2003 to the construction of two secondary schools, and speeding up the disbursement for
learning materials which was much delayed earlier on.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


During implementation, 22% of the credit, or over US$ 8 million, was reallocated to the
added component "(f) construction of Kafubwe and Lumezi secondary schools", through
DCA amendment. This proportion is much higher than the Bank team's intention of
"limit(ing) reallocation ... towards secondary school completion to no more than 10% of
value of the Credit" (ISR, 01/25/2001). The financing of these two secondary schools
reflected GRZ and the Bank's intention of providing a model for promoting gender parity
and poverty-targeted interventions. The Bank might also bear some reputational risks if
leaving these schools in their initial status. However, setting aside these justifiable
factors, the construction of the two schools deviated from the overall strategic coherency
of IDA credit aimed at supporting BESSIP focusing on basic education.

The implementation of the construction of the two secondary schools experienced
significant delays and led to the IP rating downgraded to "Moderately Unsatisfactory" in
2005 (ISR, 05/20/2005). Bank team devoted increased supervision effort with more
frequent site visits. By June 2006, all buildings had been completed at both sites, and
schools were opened with over 100 pupils in Grade 10 enrolled in each school. The IP
rating reverted to "Moderately Satisfactory" by the closing of the Credit.

There was no mid-term review in design. A semi-annual review process was put in place
at the beginning to monitor the progress. It was agreed that the Ministry of Education
would issue Semi-Annual Report to the external cooperating partners one month before



                                               8

the review. During implementation, the timeliness of reporting was not satisfactory
from the very beginning. In June 2000, on grounds of the burden on the Ministry, it was
agreed to downscale the May semi-annual review to a one-day "BESSIP forum", and to
substitute the annual report with the quarterly reports for internal MoE management of
BESSIP.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The BESSIP PDO indicators include the Grade 1-7 enrollment and students' performance
improvement in national assessment. These indicators are generally adequate to monitor
BESSIP progress towards its development objectives. However, "basic education" is
defined as the first 9 years of education in Zambia, with Grade 1-7 as lower to middle
basic education, and Grade 8-9 as upper basic education. Given that basic schools are in
transition from Grade 1-7 to Grade 1-9, and while achieving increased enrollment,
completion, and learning outcomes in Grade 1-7 should be the foremost priority,
indicators for Grade 8-9 should also be included in monitoring BESSIP progress.

The following M&E issues during implementation needs attention:
     The change to using enrollment rather than its ratio due to lack of school-age
        population data was deemed appropriate; enrollment ratios were added when the
        2000 population census data was made available in 2003.
     Baseline data for learning achievement based on national assessment was not
        available until 2001, which was only one year before the original closing date.
     The national assessment was carried out again in 2003, but was not carried out in
        2005 as planned. The next wave will be 2007.

The data collected during M&E formed basis for the formulation of the "Sector Strategic
Plan 2003-2007". Although the M&E capacity of MoE was developed during the
BESSIP implementation, currently the unit still relies largely on external technical
assistance for data computerizing and analyzing.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


Environment assessment category C. Safeguard compliance: N/A.
There were no key issues in fiduciary compliance during implementation.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


The Government has already transformed the BESSIP to an overall "Sector Strategic
Plan (2003-2007)", with extensions to other sub-sectors. The Annual Work Plan and


                                                 9

Budget and annual review of implementation progress are already the regular operations
of MoE. The education service delivery has been decentralized fully to the District
Education Board. However, the institutional capacity is still weak in overall policy and
planning, and monitoring and evaluation at the central ministry. External technical
assistance is still needed in the medium term. The service delivery capacity at district
level also needs to be strengthened.

The next education sector strategic plan will be part of the Fifth National Development
Plan, which is currently being finalized. Harmonized donor support in the education
sector will continue, with focus on improving education quality, and extending support to
community schools to further expand access particularly in disadvantaged areas.

In 2005, the Bank conducted the public expenditure review in Zambia. In the upcoming
years, the Bank's support to the Government will focus on technical assistance and
capacity building in such areas, including public expenditure tracking survey, education
for all Fast Track Initiative (FTI), secondary and tertiary education.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


BESSIP provided an opportunity for improving education service delivery by expanding
the coverage and improving the quality of basic education which largely benefited the
poor. BESSIP's objectives remained highly relevant and reflected essential priorities
given to the achievement of MDGs and the improvement of the living standard of the
poor in Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP, May 2002) and the
Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy for Zambia (2004).

The Government's BESSIP graduated in 2002 and was superseded by an overall
education sector program based on the "Education Sector Strategy 2003-2007". In this
sense, the relevance of Bank's BESSIP support project was weakened after 2003, even
though basic education sub-sector is an integral part of the overall sector strategy.
Between 2003 and the project closing, the disbursements of IDA credit were mostly for
the construction of the two secondary schools, and purchasing teaching and learning
materials.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)


BESSIP has achieved and exceeded the original target of increasing the coverage of
basic education (Grade 1-7) . The "Free Primary Education" policy started in 2002 with
abolition of school fees greatly stimulated the demand for education. From 1999 to
2005, the gross enrollment rate increased from 85% to 119%, representing nearly 10%



                                                10

annual growth. The net enrollment rate increased from 71% to 96% during the same
period. Both indicators exceeded the PDO targets.

The investment under BESSIP ensured that there were increased school places to
accomodate enrollment expansion. From 2001-2005, IDA credit financed the
construction of 2,924 new classrooms and 1,945 teachers' houses, and the rehabilitation
of 2,992 classrooms and 1,366 teachers' houses. IDA funding contributed to 65% of the
total classrooms and teachers' houses constructed and rehabilitated under BESSIP.
About 33% of the construction took place in urban areas and 67% in rural areas.

The quality of education in terms of student learning outcomes has also improved. The
increased provision of learning materials, strengthened teacher training, and other
investments in key education inputs to maintain and further improve the teaching the
learning quality ensured that the vast expansion of basic education coverage were not at
the cost of education quality. According to the National Assessment Survey Report
2003, both English and mathematics scores improved from 33% to 34% and from 34% to
38% respectively from 1999 to 2003.

From 2000 to 2006, IDA funds provided 6,044,135 copies of textbooks and teacher
guides. The 2003 National Assessment Survey indicated that there were very few pupils
(0.1%) who had no access to English and mathematics textbooks by 2003, comparing
with 3.4% and 14.7% respectively in 2001.

The construction of two secondary schools was completed. In May 2006, the two
schools opened with over 100 students enrolled in Grade 10 in each school. Regular
teaching and learning are taking place, except that the laboratories, workshops,
bathrooms are not yet in use due to the absence of electricity and water, which are
expected to be available soon.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


Under BESSIP, the unit cost per pupil in the education system is increased from pre-
BESSIP period, due to the increased spending on learning materials, school health, and
other key inputs. However the overall efficiency of the basic education system was
improved with increased number of students in school and increased completion rate.
Therefore, the cost of producing one Grade 7 graduate was reduced.

The management of the sector was also more efficient after the decentralization of
education service delivery to the Education Sector Board, and the restructuring of the
central ministry. In the meantime, the improved donor coordination and formalized
procedures also reduced the transaction cost to the Government and improved



                                             11

implementation effectiveness.

One remaining efficiency issue is the design of the two secondary schools. The low
enrollment capacity and high construction cost compared with international standard
should lead to some serious concerns by the Zambian policy makers when considering
further expansion of secondary education.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The overall rating reflects the high relevance of the outcomes, achieved progress towards
achieving PDOs, and improved efficiency in achieving sector outcomes. In particular,
the strong performance in enrollment expansion and grade 7 completion rate
improvement is notable. Given that rapid increase in enrollment often companied with
the cost of quality, the gains in learning outcome were also promising. The rating also
reflects the limitations shown in these areas: the narrowed relevance in recent years due
to Government's evolving strategy; and the untapped potential of improving the
efficiency of the two secondary schools construction.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Impact on the poor and disadvantaged. BESSIP has made significant strides to provide
learning opportunities to the poor and vulnerable who had no access to schools
previously. For example, by 2003, the number of students enrolled in community schools
increased four times from 47,276 in 1999 to 175,784 in 2003 resulting from policies
encouraging alternative learning modalities and school grants from BESSIP.

Gender equity. BESSIP strengthened the awareness for girls to attend basic schools. The
gender gap in enrollment at Grade 1-7 had narrowed from 7.4 percent difference in 2000
to 5 percent difference in 2005.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


BESSIP has improved institutional arrangement and capacity for sector management and
service delivery:

     BESSIP started a harmonized approach in sector planning and program
         implementation, involving all donors and stakeholders through regular meetings
         and annual reviews.



                                               12

     BESSIP has assisted restructuring the MoE and the decentralization process with
         district offices taking more responsibilities in education. Schools are given more
         autonomy through school grants, which allow them to make such decisions as
         textbooks, financial assistance for the vulnerable and school maintenance.
     BESSIP has helped establishing the National Assessment Report system since
         1999. The report is published every two years in 1999, 2001, 2003, 2006 (skip the
         year 2005) and forward, which has become a part of an effective system in
         providing quality indicators and policy recommendations for the MoE to adjust
         and formulate policies on improving quality and management.



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N.A.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A field visit was conducted to Kafubwe and Lumezi secondary education, Nyimba
District Education Board (DEB), and Mfumbizi basic school during ICR mission in
October 2006. The mission held discussions with headteachers, teachers and pupils.
Beneficiaries from the two secondary schools are satisfied with school facilities, learning
environment provided through IDA credit. But they are dissatisfied with the absence of
water and electricity. At the DEB and the basic school, beneficiaries observed positive
changes at the school level, including an accelerated increase in enrollment, an increase
in girls' attendance at school, the deployment of more teachers, more textbooks available
to pupils, and the autonomy provided to schools through school grants.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


The risk to the development outcomes and outputs is moderate. There has been
increased public funding to the education sector in recent years. In particular, the teacher
hiring freeze was relaxed, and a large number of new teachers were hired in 2004 and
2005, after the hiatus of teacher hiring. The draft Education Chapter of the National
Development Plan (2006-2010) ensures continued expansion of education access, and
emphasized the priority of improving education quality. The institution-strengthening
measures under the project are already bearing fruit. Decentralization was completed and
district education board has started to play an important role in school management.
Sector planning process is much strengthened. The annual review process was
institutionalized with the participation of all major donors in the sector.

One key risk that needs further attention is in the area of learning outcome. With
continuous expanding of access and enrollment, the training and hiring of teachers take
time to catch up with the enrolment growth. Critical challenge lies in rural areas where


                                                13

the deployment of teachers proves to be particularly difficult.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank's assumed leading role in conceptualization and coordination of BESSIP. The
large-scale sub-sector program with harmonized donor contributions was trail-blazing in
Zambia's context. For the first time in Zambia , nearly all external donors in the sub-
sector were folded into one sub-sector program led by GRZ, under a clear policy
framework and sub-sector strategy.

Bank provided essential technical support to the design of BESSIP. Specifically, (1) The
Bank team arranged for international experts to assist the Ministry of Education with
learning assessment; (2) Bank staff guided the Ministry in the preparation of a
Procurement and Financial Procedures Manual, which was applied not only to the IDA
Credit, but also initially guided the operations of the Pool; (3) Based on experience of
other sectoral programs, the Bank staff assisted the Ministry in conceptualizing clearly
how partners could support the Ministry's program through different financing
modalities.

Bank showed its inexperience in APL. The Bank team intended to bring flexibility to the
design of the Credit. However, an APL was not the most appropriate for this purpose.
The programmatic feature of an APL was not fully reflected in the project
implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank carried out regular supervision missions, and maintained a substantial level of
dialogues with GRZ and other development partners on sector policy reforms, and
emphasized the key role of adequate supply and deployment of teachers in ensuring
adequate quality of teaching and learning.

Bank supervision team was generally well staffed, however, a period of lack of staff at
Bank's country office in Lusaka had affected the timeliness of school construction site
visits and feedback to MoE urgent issues. This issue was later solved with new
procurement staff assigned in the field.

Overall supervision had adequate focus on development impact, giving due attention to


                                                14

inputs, outputs, and processes, and the ISR and performance ratings were candid,
identifying key issues on time.

However, the Bank supervision team did not alert the borrower on the inadequacy in the
design and cost estimates of the two secondary schools and recommend any remedial
measures. The supervision team also underestimated the time and resources required for
the construction of the two secondary schools, resulting in the last two extensions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall "moderately satisfactory" rating reflects a moderately satisfactory rating for
performance both at entry and during supervision.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government' strong ownership and commitment to the development objectives. The
Government instituted key policy reforms in the sector to make the achievement of the
BESSIP objectives possible. In 2002, a "Free Primary Education" Policy was announced
by the President. Under this policy, "No pupils at Grades 1-7 should be levied any user
fees including PTA levies". The policies on the decentralization of education service
delivery, and the restructuring of MoE instituted by the Government also played
important parts in capacitating the sector in BESSIP implementation.

The negative impact of the freeze of teacher employment on education quality.       In 2003,
on the basis of negotiations with public sector unions, the Government granted increases
in wages and benefits that were excessive in relation to the budget framework 2003.
Following this, the Ministry of Education imposed a freeze on the hiring of teachers. This
worsened pupil/teacher ratio from 46:1 in 2002 to 55:1 in 2005. Double-shift, even triple-
shift teaching particularly at lower grades was adopted, which often resulted in shortened
learning time in the classrooms.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency          Performance

                MoE led the join-appraisal of the project, providing the overall leadership
                in the process. It cooperated fully with donors and stakeholders in
Ministry of     preparing the project. MoE also provided key technical inputs with
Education       necessary analytical work for the design of the project.

                MoE led the overall implementation of BESSIP. It coordinated activities



                                              15

                under each component which presented significant progress in their
                outputs. However, there were concerns during BESSIP implementation
                that following a series of personnel change at MoE, there were delays in
                quarterly financial and progress report, and lack of forward movement on
                planned reform.

                Delays in project implementation also resulted from contractor delivery
                delays of two secondary schools, to which the counterpart funding from
                GRZ was not timely and site supervision of the construction could be more
                frequent. In addition, the school infrastructure team within MoE also
                showed weak technical capacity in evaluating the adequacy of the design,
                cost estimates, and the amount of civil works needed together with the
                realism of the construction time. This consequently led to the multiple
                changes in these areas during contract execution, contributing to the delays
                and cost escalation. The infrastructure team's capacity to supervise the
                externally recruited infrastructure consultants also proved to be inadequate.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The performance rating recognizes the overall successful role the borrower played in
leading the preparation and implementation of BESSIP, however with moderate
shortcomings described above.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

General Operation:

     Conducive policy environment is critical in ensuring the success of a sector
        program. The "Free Primary Education" policy started in 2002 with abolition of
        school fees greatly stimulated the demand for education. The investment under
        BESSIP ensured that there were increased school places to accomodate
        enrollment expansion. The increased provision of learning materials, strengthened
        teacher training, and other investments in key education inputs to maintain and
        further improve the teaching and learning quality ensured that the vast expansion
        of basic education coverage was not at the cost of education quality.

     Extension of a project only for narrowly focused component(s) may bear the cost
        of reduced strategic relevance . Following GRZ's BESSIP completion in 2002,
        the Ministry of Education prepared a new Strategic Plan 2003-07 covering all
        sub-sectors. However, due to large balance of IDA credit, the Bank's BESSIP
        support project was extended multiple times. After 2003, even though the Bank
        staff continued participation in overall sector dialogue, IDA credit support was
        limited to two secondary schools' construction and limited learning materials
        provision. This not only made the Bank's operation out-of-sync, but also
        prevented IDA's potentially more significant involvement in supporting the new



                                              16

      strategic plan.

    In hindsight, Development Policy Lending (DPL) may be a better instrument to
      support sector policies when expenditure items are not completely identified .
      25% of IDA credit was "unallocated", without determined expenditure items
      (nearly 90% of this unallocated category eventually financed the construction of
      the two secondary schools). Although this to some extent provided the flexibility
      BESSIP needed, this defies the rationale for an investment lending with funding
      linked directly to the investment expenditures.

Education Sector:

    Community-driven school construction and rehabilitation has been proved
      advantageous when there is adequate management arrangement and capacity .
      The contrast in timeliness was sharp between the school construction through
      Micro Projects Unit (MPU, attached to MoF, which has been implementing
      community-based activities under the Social Recovery Projects since 1991) and
      replying on community driven approach, and the construction of the two
      secondary schools using contractors. Although building secondary schools may
      have high engineering requirement and thus necessary to have specialized
      contractors, how communities can play a role could also be explored.

    Decentralized fund utilization for service delivery can largely improve absorption
      capacity . School grants were started in 2001, with largely increased fund flow
      directly to DEBs and then to schools. This improved the funding utilization and
      service delivery tremendously. However, the funding formula needs to be
      further clarified, and fund flow needs to be sustained based on improved planning
      at school level. The procurement capacity at district and school levels need to be
      developed in order to make the system effective.

    Investment focusing on one sub-sector needs to be complemented by policy
      reforms in other sub-sectors. BESSIP greatly increased basic education
      enrollment, but also left a bigger gap between basic and secondary education
      coverage. Currently the enrollment of secondary education in Zambia remains
      extremely narrow at less than 20% percent, in sharp contrast with the GER of
      119% at grade1-7. Lack of serious policy reforms in recent years at secondary
      level has put a strain on the overall sector strategies to meet the long-term
      economic development needs in Zambia.

    Strengthening the technical capacity of the infrastructure team within MoE will
      be crucial for the continued expansion of school places. Given the increasing
      resources for the expansion of school access, MoE needs to strengthen its staffing
      commensurate with the demands on the ground in terms of staff numbers and
      adequacy of the diverse skills needed to manage infrastructure projects and to
      adequately engage and supervise consultants that the ministry may hire to
      complement its capacity.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners



                                            17

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


GRZ's own BESSIP completion report is attached.

One issue highlighted in the report is the IDA funding modality: "...(T)he IDA credit was
the first agreement to be signed in 1999. $40m was made available in the first phase of
the programme from 1999-2001. To some extent, this ... put an imprint of an older Bank
sector investment programme on BESSIP. Although it is technically possible for the
IDA credit to be fungible across the different components, in practice, the Bank is
underwriting a substantial proportion of the capital development programme in
infrastructure, educational materials..."

"The IDA Credit Agreement contrasts with ... subsequent bilateral agreements signed in
1999, with the Netherlands, Ireland and Norway for a total of $31m. These agreements
provided 'pooled' funds, controlled by the Ministry of Education and commingled in a
common bank account. The IDA credit is accounted for separately in its own bank
account, though the funds are also controlled by the Ministry."

Many previous MoE officials who were involved in the BESSIP appraisal also expressed
the mixed evaluation on IDA's key leading role in designing a "sub-sector program",
while financing project-like operations. This view has been reflected in the previous
sections of this ICR in reviewing Bank performance and lessons learned.


(b) Cofinanciers

N.A.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Lead cooperating partner Irish Aid raised two key issues: (1) Although sector
management is improved, BESSIP largely ran a parallel reviewing and planning process
and relied on a few individual officers; (2) The focus on one sub-sector disadvantaged
other areas of education. Right now high schools are in a deplorable state due to primary
focus on the basic sub-sector.

These issues are currently addressed in the new Sector Plan, and the Bank will continue
provide technical support in addressing these issues.




                                             18

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The main objectives of BESSIP as stated in the Program Appraisal Document (PAD)
dated March 5, 1999, and reflected in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated
May 11, 1999, were to: (1) provide relevant education for all children in relevant age
range and particularly for disadvantaged groups, with gross enrollment rates increase to
100% and net enrollment rates increase to 90%; (2) improve learning outcomes for all
children with achievement scores in ongoing national assessment showing improvement
over scores in preceding assessments.

The IDA support to the Government's BESSIP was prepared and presented to the Board
as a two-stage APL. It was envisaged that APL1 with a credit of US$ 40 million would
be disbursed from 1999 through 2002, while APL2 with a credit of US$ 60 million would
be disbursed through 2006. The development objectives above are thus "program"
objectives, using 2005 as the target year.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

By the time the first Implementation Status Report (ISR) was prepared in 1999, the task
team realized that there were considerable uncertainties about Zambia's demography,
with diverse estimates of HIV/AIDS prevalence and mortality, and with available
projections only based on the census of 1990. Accordingly, the following DOs were used
for ISR reporting before the 2000 population census data was available in 2003:(1)
Accelerate enrollment growth to 4% per annum, with reduced disparities in enrollment;
(2) Improve learning achievement, with reduced disparities among groups, as measured
by the National Assessments of Educational Achievement to be carried out in 1999 and in
2001.

The DCA amendment in April 2001 did not amend the original objectives, relating to
education in Grades 1-7. The amendment included this addition to the first paragraph of
Schedule 2 of the DCA: "The Project also supports the construction of two secondary
schools in the Borrower's Eastern Province". This was recorded in the DCA amendment
letter dated April 5, 2001.

This amendment is in response to the government's request to complete the construction
of the two secondary schools. These two secondary schools were left substantially
incomplete (only 10% done) from the closed Fifth Education Project (P003180, closed in
March 1988) due to portfolio-wide suspension of disbursement by the Bank, after GRZ
had faulted on debt service due to the Bank.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)



                                           19

                                                                  Formally     Actual Value

  Indicator    Baseline Value       Original Target Values        Revised      Achieved at
                                 (from approval documents)        Target      Completion or
                                                                  Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Enrollment in Grades 1-7
                                 1,968,836 (school year 2005)
Value                            (Not stated in the PAD, but
(quantitative 1,556,000 (school derived by applying a
or            year 1999)         compound growth rate of 4%                  2,567,353

Qualitative)                     annually to the enrollment of
                                 1999)
Date achieved 07/01/1999         07/01/2005                                  07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Target fully achieved
achievement)
              Gross Enrollment Ratio for Grades 1-7, (total enrollment in Grades 1-7, including
Indicator 2 : over-age pupils, some of whom are repeaters, divided by the 7-13-year-old age
              group
Value
(quantitative 85% (school year
or            1996)              100% (2005)                                 119% (2005)

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/1996         07/01/2005                                  07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Target fully achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 3 : Net Enrollment Ratio for Grades 1-7 (enrollment of pupils aged 7-13 in Grades 1-
             7, divided by the 7-13-year-old age group)
Value
(quantitative 69% (school year
or            1996)              90% (2005)                                  96%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/1996         07/01/2005                                  07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Target fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Grade 7 completion rate

Value         66% (school year

(quantitative 1998) (source:     74% (However, not an
or            Public             original Target)                            82%

Qualitative)  Expenditure
              Review)
Date achieved 07/01/1998         07/01/2005                                  07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Target fully achieved.
achievement)



                                              20

Indicator 5 : Mean English score on National Assessment of Learning Achievement at Grade 5
              (percentage of questions answered correctly)
Value
(quantitative
or            33% (1999)         (None established)                           34% (2003)

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/1999         07/01/1999                                   07/01/2003
Comments      National assessment results show marginal improvement between 1999 and 2003.
(incl. %      However, given the fast expansion of the system coverage, keeping learning
achievement) outcome from deteriorating was challenging.

Indicator 6 : Mean math score on National Assessment of Learning Achievement at Grade 5
              (percentage of questions answered correctly
Value
(quantitative
or            34%                (None established)                           38%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/1999         07/01/1999                                   07/01/2003
Comments
(incl. %      National assessment was not carried out in 2005, but will be resumed in 2007.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                            Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Pupil/Teacher Ratio in Grades 1-7
              National average of 42:1 in
Value         1996, and 47:1 in 1999.
(quantitative Lower in Lusaka and
or            Copperbelt Provinces, and   Not explicitly stated               55:1

Qualitative)  higher in seven mainly rural
              provinces
Date achieved 07/01/1999                  07/01/1999                          07/01/2005
Comments      The freeze of teacher employment in 2003 induced by the lack of GRZ's
(incl. %      inadequate fiscal planning negatively affected the achievement of the target pupil
achievement) teacher ratio.
Indicator 2 : Percentage of Untrained Teachers in the teaching force
Value
(quantitative
or            22% in 1996                 None by 2002                        5.4%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/1996                  07/01/2002                          07/01/2004
Comments
(incl. %      Expansion of the system resulted in higher demand for teachers.
achievement)



                                              21

Indicator 3 : Textbook/Pupil Ratio in core subjects
Value
(quantitative                                                    Math and English
or            Between 5:1 and 10:1       2:1 in core subjects    3-4:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/1998                  07/01/2002             07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Not fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of "Permanent structure" classrooms

Value                                    Add classrooms at a

(quantitative                            rate of 1000

or            19,078 in 1999             annually (PAD)          26,236

Qualitative)                             (implying 25, 078 in
                                         2005)
Date achieved 07/01/1999                  07/01/2005             07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Fully achieved.
achievement)




                                             22

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


  Restructuring        Board      ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed           Reason for

     Date(s)         Approved     Restructuring    at Restructuring in Restructuring &
                    PDO Change     DO        IP          USD M         Key Changes Made
04/05/2001         Y                S         S                 11.08
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets               Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets       Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                  Moderately Satisfactory




                                          23

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                             Appraisal
               Components                  Estimate (USD    Actual/Latest  Percentage of

                                                M)        Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

TEACHING/LEARNING/READINESS                          0.00             0.00
(INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS)                          24.10             15.60        64.73
(SCHOOL HEALTH AND NUTRITION)                        3.30             0.70        21.21
(BURSARIES)                                        16.60             22.20      133.73
TEACHERS' DEPLOYMENT AND
COMPENSATION                                      112.90            112.90      100.00

INFRASTRUCTURE                                    109.40             43.40        39.67
TEACHER TRAINING                                   31.10              8.20        26.37
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT                               2.20             0.20         9.09
ADMINSTRATION/CAPACITY
BUILDING                                           40.80             12.10        29.66

KAFUMBWE AND LUMEZI
SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                    0.00             7.90

Undistinguished counterpart funding                  0.00             0.80
                       Total Baseline Cost        340.40            224.00
Physical Contingencies                               0.00
Price Contingencies                                  0.00
                       Total Project Costs        340.40
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00             0.00         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00             0.00         0.00
                 Total Financing Required         340.40            224.00



(b) Financing


                                               Appraisal
       Source of Funds            Type of                    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                Cofinancing Estimate (USD
                                                 M)       Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

  Borrower                                         167.00            113.00       67.66
  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                          40.00           37.00        92.50
ASSOCIATION


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           24

25

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The achievement presented below reflects the status at the end of GRZ's BESSIP by end 2002.

(a) Primary teaching/learning/readiness

(a1) Instructional material

 Outcome/Objective              Performance         Baseline            Key targets                Achievements
                                indicator
                                Number of books     Inadequate books    4,376,783 books in          3,211,610 Books
 Improved teaching and          supplied;           in the subject      schools                     procured, 1,394,797
 learning in schools                                areas                                           distributed
                                Book/pupil ratio by Book/pupil ratio    Book ratio of 1:2           Average 1:3-4
                                grade and subject   between 1:5 and     achieved
                                                    1:10
 Improved learning of           Number of Science   No Science Kits     2,000 Science Kits          contracts signed for
 science in schools             Kits in schools     in schools          distributed                 2,000 Science kits
 Improved system for            Decentralised       Books and other     Number of books and         List of approved
 procurement and distribution   procurement         materials           other educational           books prepared;
                                system              centrally procured  materials selected and      awaiting publishing
                                                                        procured at school level    Consultancy
                                                                                                    undertaken to
                                                                                                    recommend system


(a2) School health and nutrition (SHN)

 Outcome/Objective         Performance             Baseline          Key targets                    Achievements
                           indicator
Development of SHN         Adoption of SHN         No SHN            10,000 copies of SHN policy    SHN policy being
policy completed.          policy by cabinet       policy            document printed and           finalised
                           office                                    circulated to stakeholders
                           Approval of SHN         No SHN policy     Guidelines available in all    92 schools received
                           policy and guidelines                     schools                        the guidelines
 School Health and         350 schools in Eastern, No baseline       100,000 children receiving     31, 759 pupils from
 Nutrition interventions   Lusaka and Central      Report from       de-worming drugs,              92 schools are
 implemented               provinces with trained  the 2001          micronutrient supplements      benefiting.
                           teachers delivering de- baseline survey   and teachers proving
                           worming drugs,          from pilot        screening treatment and
                           micronutrient           schools in        referral appropriately in 350
                           supplements and         Eastern           schools in Eastern , Central
                           carrying out screening, province          and Lusaka provinces.
                           simple treatment and                      5% of children from 350
                           providing                                 schools with improved
                           referral.                                 academic performance and
                                                                     health status
                           350 schools with        Report from       10,000 children benefiting     31,759 pupils in 92
                           viable production unit  the 2001          from the school production     schools with
                           gardens                 baseline survey   unit gardens produce.          improved nutrition
                                                   from pilot                                       status.
                                                   schools in        5% of children from 350
                                                   Eastern           schools with improved
                                                   province.         nutrition status and cognitive
                                                                     abilities
A SHN school based         SHN Information         No information    SHN Management                 92 schools using the
information system         System developed and    available         Information System             School Health Cards.
developed and              in use by 2005                            established



                                                      26

integrated in the main
EMIS
HIV/AIDS strategies      HIV/AIDS strategies      No information     All children and teachers        Many schools
Integrate into SHN       integrated and used for  available          participating in                 conduct HIV/AIDS
interventions            behaviour change and                        disseminating information        talks and other health
                         modification                                on HIV/AIDS in all schools       issues at assembly.


                                                                     Anti AIDS clubs established
Improved water,          Sanitary facilities      No baseline        30% of 350 schools with          Not monitored
sanitation and hygiene   properly used and                           clean and safe water.
practices of children    maintained by school
                         children                                    30% of 350 schools with
                                                                     clean latrines available in the
                         Schools with safe and                       ratio 1:20 girls and 1:30
                         protected water                             boys
                         sources
School-Based health and  60 pilot schools         Routine            3 pilot Districts using the      30,000 School Health
nutrition information    collecting and           statistics of      information for planning         Cards procured and
developed and            summarizing health       1999                                                distributed to 80 pilot
integrated into EMIS     and nutrition                                                                schools in three pilot
                         information                                                                  districts, Chama,
                                                                                                      Chipata and Chadiza.


(a3) Equity and bursaries

 Outcome/Objective     Performance indicator      Baseline             Key targets             Achievements


 MoE ensures no child  Increase the number of     812,873 boys in      Increase enrolment      Increased enrolment by
 is blocked from       children enrolled          1998                 by 5%                   6%
 school because of                                563,722 rural
 costs, uniforms,                                 boys
 distance, unfavorable                            247,151 urban
 school environment,                              boys
 parents perceptions                              746,384 girls in
                                                  1998
                                                  493,242 rural
                                                  girls
                                                  253,142 urban
                                                  girls
                                                  1,000 bursaries in   Increase enrolment      More than 300% increase
                       Increase number of         1999                 by 100%                 achieved
                       bursaries by 100% by
                       2002
 More resources for    Number of districts        2 districts in       Increase number         PAGE districts increased
 gender-equity         implementing PAGE          1996                 of districts            to 72
 programs                                                              implementing
                                                                       PAGE from 65 to
                                                                       72 by 2002
 More resources for    Number of districts        1 district in 1998   Increase the            INSPRO districts
 inclusive programs in implementing INSPRO                             number of districts     increased to 16
 basic and community                                                   implementing
 schools                                                               INSPRO from 6 to
                                                                       10 by 2002


(a4) Teachers deployment and compensation

 Outcome/Objective                       Performance              Baseline              Key targets     Achievements
                                         indicator




                                                     27

 More teachers deployed to rural areas        Number of teachers                   N/A    5,000 teacher     5,023 teachers
                                            deployed to rural areas                         deployed to        deployed to
                                                                                              rural areas       rural areas

 Teachers salaries and conditions of          Teacher salary level                 N/A                      Teacher salary
 services improved                                                                                             increased to
                                                                                                                   close to
                                                                                                              international
                                                                                                                benchmark


(b) Primary school infrastructure

 Outcome/Objective              Performance         Baseline            Key targets                           Achievements
                                indicator
 To increase access to          Number of           23,453              3,000 classrooms constructed in       3,396 classrooms
 education by increasing        classrooms          classrooms          peri-urban and rural areas.           constructed
 number of schools              constructed and     (19,078 in                                                exceeding the
 infrastructure                 rehabilitated       permanent           1,600 classrooms rehabilitated        target due to use
                                                    structures and                                            of the demand
                                                    4,375 in                                                  driven approach.
                                                    temporary
                                                    structures)
 To enhance District            Number of           62 DEOs offices     10 offices for construction           10 district
 Education Officers' capacity   DEOs offices        with adequate                                             education offices
 to carry out their duties by   built or            offices by 1999                                           built
 improving and increasing       constructed
 their office infrastructure                                                                                  10 DEO offices
                                                                                                              rehabilitated
 To improve the efficiency of   Improved            One adequately      26 Building staff                     26 SBOs and
 SIS component by bringing      staffing and        qualified officer                                         DBOs trained
 more capacity and              staff skills                            3 TAs
 motivation to the staff                            One TA was                                                3 TAs in place
                                                    available


(c) Teacher training

 Outcome/Objective                      Performance      Baseline                Key targets           Achievements
                                        indicator

 Expanded in-service training           Number of        6,000 teachers            24,000 teachers             25,200 teachers
                                        teachers         attended In-Service       participating in-    participated in-service
                                        receiving in-    training in 1999          service training                    training
                                        service
                                        training

 Teacher training output doubled as a   Number of        2,500 students           Teacher training            Teacher training
 result of implementing ZATEC           graduates        graduated in 1999        output increases       output reached 5,711
                                        from teacher                                       to 4,500
                                        training
                                        colleges

 Teachers trained in new methods of     Number of        6,000 teachers trained   38,958 by 2004                38,958 trained
 teaching in literacy for Grades        teachers         in NBTL in 2002
 1  7                                  training in
                                        NBTL


(d) Curriculum development




                                                         28

 Outcome/Objective          Performance            Baseline                  Key targets             Achievements
                            indicator
 A relevant and             Manual produced        Teachers' curriculum      45,000 manuals          40,000 copies of Teachers'
 effective basic school     and approved.          manual developed,         distributed.            Curriculum Manual
 curriculum that is in      Number of              approved and printed.                             distributed.
 tune with other            manuals printed
 current education          and distributed.
 reforms developed.
 Teaching and               Number of new          Exercise on re-           40,000 copies of        Draft syllabuses in 6 study
 learning outcomes          syllabuses revised     drafting the              syllabuses printed      areas developed.
 improved through a         or redrafted,          syllabuses going on.      and one set of
 school curriculum          printed and                                      syllabuses
 with flexible              distributed.                                     distributed to each
 methodologies and                                                           school, each
 increased emphasis                                                          Teacher Training
 on core skills.                                                             College and each
                                                                             District Resource
                                                                             Centre.
                            Number of              Activity yet to start     Textbooks and           Process has started.
                            textbooks and                                    manuals fro all         Revised list of "Approved
                            manuals from the                                 subjects for Grades     and Recommended" books
                            list of approved                                 1 to 4 screened.        in all Grades prepared.
                            books screened for
                            compatibility with
                            the new
                            curriculum.
 Methods and systems        Manual or other        First steps taken in      Guidelines produced     More guidelines to go with
 for continuous school      Instruments for        curriculum                                        the Curriculum Framework
 based assessment           Guiding school         Framework                                         Document and Teacher's
 developed by the           based assessment.      Document and                                      under preparation.
 Curriculum                                        Teacher's Curriculum
 Development Centre                                Manual and
 with Examinations                                 Examinations
 Council of Zambia                                 Council Manual.
                            Tests in various       Draft tests for Grade     Tests in various        Grade 4 Competence Tests
                            subjects produced,     4 have been produced      subjects produced,      for Mathematics and
                            piloted and            for Mathematics and       piloted and             English produced, piloted at
                            approved.              English.                  approved.               national level.


(e) Administration and capacity building


 Outcome/Objective                     Performance indicator         Baseline            Key targets         Achievements



 Ministry restructured and key         MoE restructured              No directorates     Five new            Restructuring
 functions of decision making                                        but departments     directorates        completed. 2
 decentralized to Education                                                              established and     directorates
 Boards and other institutions in                                                        qualified           established-Planning
 order to facilitate timely and                                                          personnel           and Information and
 speedy delivery of education                                                            appointed by        Human Resource and
 services.                                                                               2002                Administration.
                                       Education Boards at           Education           Increased           Education Boards in
                                       District and institutional    Boards in one       number of           all districts by 2005.
                                       level established and         pilot province      Education
                                       functional                    (Copperbelt)        Boards
                                                                                         functional




                                                             29

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

The economic analysis shows that the investment is cost effective in the sense that the
cost of producing one graduate reduced from $302 to $297 (2005 term).

                                                Average
                                                time for                          Total
               Total                 Average   graduates to                     (public)
            graduates               investment  complete                         cost of
            of Grade 7  Total yrs    for one     primary                        producing
            per 1,000      for       graduate   education   Loading   Unit cost   one
             entrants   graduates     (Ya)        (Yb)       factor   per year  graduate
 Before
 (1999)        679      6,415.98       9.45       7.53        1.26    $ 32.00   $ 302.28
  After
 (2005)        808      6,853.29       8.48       7.49        1.13    $ 35.00   $ 296.82


Key parameters include:
    Dropout rate reduced from 5% to 2.8% per grade on average;
    Repetition rate reduced from 7% to 6.6% on average;
    Unit cost before investment is US$ 32 in 2005 term (based on $22 in 1996 and
        inflation rate 3% per year, plus US$ 2 on average for school fees and examination
        fees per year per pupil)
    Unit cost after investment is US$ 35.




                                             30

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                  Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Dandan Chen            Senior Economist         AFTH1         Task Team leader

Fenwick M. Chitalu     Financial Management
                       Specialis                AFTFM         Financial management

Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus Sr Procurement Spec.      AFTPC         Procurement
Wedex Ilunga           Procurement Spec.        AFTPC         Procurement
Michael N. Mambo       Sr Education Spec.       AFTH1         Education

Helen Mbao-Chilupe     Sr Social Protection
                       Specialis                AFTH1         Community participation


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR                                               Actual Disbursements
       Archived              DO                       IP           (USD M)
1   06/30/1999         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       0.00
2   12/29/1999         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       1.50
3   06/23/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       5.28
4   11/30/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       8.37
5   01/25/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      10.40
6   08/20/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      12.43
7   02/13/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      13.32
8   06/12/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      15.18
9   11/22/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      16.23
10 05/28/2003          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      19.29
11 10/03/2003          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      21.13
12 04/08/2004          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      24.04
13 11/30/2004          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      26.58

14 05/20/2005          Moderately            Moderately
                    Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      28.51

15 06/17/2005          Moderately            Moderately
                    Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      28.94

16 12/22/2005          Moderately            Moderately
                    Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      31.65

17 06/01/2006          Moderately            Moderately
                    Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        35.14

18 06/29/2006          Moderately            Moderately
                    Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        35.59




                                             31

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY94                                                      31.85
                    FY95                                                      57.58
                    FY96                                                     173.53
                    FY97                                                     121.52
                    FY98                                                     228.93
                    FY99                                                     189.25
                    FY00                                                       2.53
                    FY01                                                       0.00
                    FY02                                                       0.00
                    FY03                                                       0.00
                    FY04                                                       0.00
                    FY05                                                       0.00
                    FY06                                                       0.00
                    FY07                                                       0.00
                                    Total:                                   805.19
Supervision/ICR
                    FY94                                                       0.00
                    FY95                                                       0.00
                    FY96                                                       0.00
                    FY97                                                       0.00
                    FY98                                                       0.00
                    FY99                                                      24.73
                    FY00                                    40               113.45
                    FY01                                    46               111.15
                    FY02                                    44               112.28
                    FY03                                    41               136.83
                    FY04                                    33               114.41
                    FY05                                    26                94.17
                    FY06                                    29               139.60
                    FY07                                    13                65.17
                                    Total:                 272               911.79




                                        32

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                  Ratings                Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:  Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory OverallBorrower
Performance:                                    Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                              33

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

A field visit was conducted to Kafubwe and Lumezi secondary education, Nyimba
District Education Board (DEB), and Mfumbizi basic school during ICR mission in
October 2006. The mission held discussions with headteachers, teachers and pupils.
Beneficiaries from the two secondary schools are satisfied with school facilities, learning
environment provided through IDA credit. But they are dissatisfied with the absence of
water and electricity. At the DEB and the basic school, beneficiaries observed positive
changes at the school level, including an accelerated increase in enrolment, an increase in
girls' attendance at school, the deployment of more teachers, more textbooks available to
pupils, and the autonomy provided to schools through school grants.




                                            34

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N.A.




                                  35

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The executive summary of the Borrower's report is attached.

One issue highlighted in the report is the IDA funding modality: "...(T)he IDA credit was
the first agreement to be signed in 1999. $40m was made available in the first phase of
the programme from 1999-2001. To some extent, this ... put an imprint of an older Bank
sector investment programme on BESSIP. Although it is technically possible for the
IDA credit to be fungible across the different components, in practice, the Bank is
underwriting a substantial proportion of the capital development programme in
infrastructure, educational materials ..."

"The IDA Credit Agreement contrasts with ...subsequent bilateral agreements signed in
1999, with the Netherlands, Ireland and Norway for a total of $31m. These agreements
provided 'pooled' funds, controlled by the Ministry of Education and commingled in a
common bank account. The IDA credit is accounted for separately in its own bank
account, though the funds are also controlled by the Ministry."

Many previous MoE officials who were involved in the BESSIP appraisal also expressed
the mixed evaluation on IDA's key leading role in designing a "sub-sector program",
while financing project-like operations. This view has been reflected in the previous
sections of this ICR in reviewing Bank performance and lessons learned.




                                            36

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Written comments received from Irish Aid:

BESSIP changed the way education programming was delivered in Zambian by
providing an opportunity to begin to see the sector in a broader context. Previously,
support was along geographical lines with donors supporting provinces or districts in
areas of agency interest. The result of this was pockets of education excellence
measured against donor objectives with Ministry of Education endorsement.
Specifically, the following can be noted about BESSIP during its lifetime:

Achievements:
Identification of sector challenges and capacity gaps

   1. Holistic focus on a particular sub sector of education resulted in improvements in
       planning, management and capacity enhancement. There were also
       improvements in the delivery of services with enrolments improving, focus on
       gender and improvements learning environments
   2. Establishment of management forums for dialogue between the donors and the
       Ministry of Education. MoE had traditionally worked with its donors on a
       bilateral basis with ministry focal points being responsible for day to business and
       the PS making all the decisions on a project by project basis.
   3. Provided evidence of what was feasible to both the government and donors and
       encouraged experimentation into a SWAp.

Weaknesses:
   1. Out of BESSIP was established a very efficient management system, but it ran
       parallel to the public service system and did not strengthen the MoE system, but
       rather individual officers. This is evident from the systemic weaknesses the
       MoESP implementation has had to encounter arising from the absence of formal
       systems.
   2. The focus on one sub-sector disadvantaged other areas of education. Basic
       school teachers and district personnel had capacity building opportunities which
       improved management, but the high schools remained neglected. This is clear
       when you assess the output from the high schools against that of the basic
       schools. High schools are in a deplorable state due to over nearly 10 years of
       primary focus on the basic sub-sector.


Lessons Learnt
   1. Programmes of this nature should be planned in a phased manner (over a longer
       time frame) with clear milestones on how to move beyond one level. BESSIP
       should have been designed with a view of feeding into something and not an end
       in itself. Further, these programmes should be outlined to allow for the
       establishment of necessary systems and capacity. However, the opportunity to
       experiment was useful.



                                            37

2. Projects are a good opportunity to draw lessons from, but attempts must be made
   to work within existing systems to ensure sustainability. The use of a parallel
   management system for BESSIP is so glaring it has affected the pace of the
   MoESP.
3. Sustainability is highly dependent on supporting the government to do things
   right and doing the right thing for them. It means allowing room for costly
  mistakes as part of the learning process.




                                        38

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Republic of Zambia, Central Statistics Office, "Living Conditions Monitoring Survey Report,
2002-2003".
Republic of Zambia, Central Statistics Office, "Living Conditions Monitoring Survey Report,
2002-2003".
Republic of Zambia, Ministry of Education "Educating Our Future: National Policy on
Education", May 1996.
Republic of Zambia, Ministry of Education, "Challenges of taking BESSIP to the Classroom-
Towards Effective Partnerships in Basic Education: BESSIP Completion Report", 2004.
Republic of Zambia, Ministry of Education, "Looking at BESSIP from the Classroom, Field
Trips Report", January 2004.
Republic of Zambia, Ministry of Education, "Strategic Plan, 2003-2007", February 2003.
World Bank, "Project Appraisal Document: Zambia, Basic Education Sub-sector Program
Support Project", 1999.
World Bank and Republic of Zambia "Development Credit Agreement", 1999.




                                                39

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Summary of Consultations During BESSIP Preparation




Stakeholders               Consultation modality
A. primary beneficiaries and affected groups
Pupils                     School visits
Teachers, and TTC students TTC visits for consultation of teacher training design

                            Teacher's union representative's participation in joint
                            appraisal
Parent and communities      Interviews during school visits
Education administrators at Seminars
central and local
B. Other stakeholders:
Private sector              Consultation with secretariat of private school association
NGOs                        Consultation with community school secretariat
Local researchers           Participatory studies
Central ministries and      Briefs to the Cabinet and parliament by the Minister of
parliamentarians            Education
External financing agencies Participation in joint preparation and appraisal; provision
                            of funding; representation at the Joint Steering Committee




                                          40

MAP




       41

