Report No. PID1087
PID1087.TXT
Project Name                     Zambia-Basic Education Subsector (@)
Investment Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       ZMPA3249
Borrower                         Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education, P.O. Box 50093, Lusaka,
Zambia. Dr. Sichalwe Kasanda, Permanent
Secretary.
Telephone number 260-1-253594.
Fax number 260-1-254139
Date this PID prepared           April 7, 1999
Projected Appraisal date         September 1998
Projected Board date             April 8, 1999
Country and Sector Background.   Sixty-eight percent of all Zambians and 88%
of rural Zambians are poor. Until very recently, government revenues and GDP
per capita have been declining and government allocation to education and
training, as a share of total government expenditure, was among the lowest in
Africa. Within education, the share for tertiary education is
disproportionately high while government spending on primary school pupils is
$22 per pupil. Although households spend an average of $17 per pupil, the
quality of school buildings, the supply of educational materials, the
readiness, numbers and motivation of teachers and the instructional time
afforded to children are inadequate. As a result, enrollment has stagnated,
dropout and repetition rates are increasing, and children are performing
poorly on standardized tests.
Program Objectives. The two development objectives are to increase
enrollment and to improve learning outcomes. Gross enrollment which is
currently at 84% is projected to increase to 100% by 2005 while learning
outcomes will be monitored through national assessments at regular intervals.
Program Description. Traditionally, external financing agencies have
supported education in Zambia through traditional projects. BESSIP
represents a paradigm shift: it is the national program for Basic Education
of the Ministry of Education, financed through the regular budget of the
Ministry and supported by external financing agencies. BESSIP comprises five
main clusters of activities. These activities (and their costs over the
three year period 1999 - 2001) are: primary teaching/learning readiness ($157
million); primary school infrastructure ($109 million); pre-service and in-
service primary teacher training ($31 million); curriculum development ($2
million); and administration of the education system ($41 million).     Under
Primary teaching/learning readiness, which includes teacher emoluments, 5
million textbooks will be supplied, interventions to enhance the education of
girls and other vulnerable children will be supported, and a baseline study
of children's health and nutrition conducted and a national strategy



designed. Under primary school infrastructure, 3,000 classrooms will be
built and 1,600 rehabilitated, mainly using a community demand driven
modality implemented by the Microprojects unit of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development. Under pre-service and in-service teacher training, a
new approach to preparing teachers involving one year in college and one year
learning in schools will be redesigned and applied in all colleges by 2001.
Serving teachers will be supported through continuous education programs in
Teachers' Resource Centers. Under curriculum development, the Curriculum
Development Centre will review the existing curriculum and develop a draft
for a new curriculum focusing on acquiring literacy and numeracy skills in
the first four years of schools, and life skills in later years. In
addition, a pilot reading program in one of the Zambian languages will be
refined and piloted. Under administration of the education system, support
will be provided to assist the process of decentralization to District
Education Boards and MoE Headquarters staff and staff in the Boards will be
assisted to manage their new responsibilities. In the period 1999 - 2001,
Education Boards will be established in at least 60% of Zambia's districts
and training will be provided for staff in all districts.
Program Financing. Over the period 1999 - 2001, BESSIP will cost about $340
million of which $167 million will be financed by the Government of Zambia,
$40 million through an IDA Credit, and $133 million by other external
financing partners through ongoing and new commitments. The IDA Credit of
$40 million is to support the first phase of a two-phase program of Adaptable
Program Lending covering the period to 2005.
Program Implementation. The program will be implemented by the Ministry of
Education. Program policy will be guided by a Joint Steering Committee
chaired by the Minister of Education and comprising Ministry staff,
cooperating partners and designated representatives of shareholders. Two
annual meeings of this committee will review progress in the previous year
and examine plans for the following year. Day-to-day implementation will be
handled through a Management Implementation Team within the Ministry, chaired
by the Deputy Permanent Secretary, and comprising key operational staff.
Program Sustainability. This program has been designed and will be managed
by staff of the Ministry of Education. Because it is a sector program, each
of the activities will continue beyond the life of the IDA Credit. BESSIP
has been carefully costed to ensure that it is affordable, particularly in
the first three years. Financial projections for future years will be
developed during the first phase.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. The design of
BESSIP benefited from experience with other sector programs in health and
agriculture in Zambia. These programs demonstrated the importance of agreed
common objectives, government leadership, commitment by all partners to the
objectives, and agreement on implementation modalities. In addition, BESSIP
was designed to reflect experience with the Zambia Education Rehabilitation
Project which demonstrated the value of clarity of design and implementation
mechanisms and that separate project implementation units do not build
capacity within ministries.
Poverty Category. While this is not designated as a Poverty-targeted
intervention, basic education has particular benefits for the poor and
aspects of the program are designed to provide assistance to poor and
-2 -



vulnerable groups. For example the Program of Action on Girls' Education
(PAGE) will be extended to the whole country, while bursaries will be
provided for the children of poor families.
Environmental Aspects. There are no environmental risks associated with this
program. Accordingly, the program is being classified as Category C.
Program Objective Categories. Human resources development is at the heart of
the poverty reduction strategy for Zambia. BESSIP will provide enrollment
opportunities for all Zambian children and improve the quality of the
learning they receive in school. The achievement of these objectives will
benefit the children of the poor, particularly those living in rural areas.
Program Benefits. The program will improve economic performance through
increasing the skills levels of the population. A greater number of literate
and numerate young people will join the labor force. As a direct result of
BESSIP, an additional half-a-million young people will have direct access to
basic education and almost 4 million children will receive education of
better quality. In addition social equity will be enhanced as children from
poor families will have a better chance of attending school and girls will be
encouraged to stay on longer and learn more. There are also likely to be
intergenerational effects arising from the increased education attainment of
girls. The children of these girls are likely to live longer and attend
school for longer periods, while the fertility rates will decrease and
HIV/AIDS levels reduce as a result of the better education provided to these
girls.
Program Risks. There is a risk that the macroeconomic situation will not
improve enough to enable the Government and households to make necessary
financial contributions to the cost of education. However, the ongoing
economic reforms, including privatization of the copper mines, are expected
to improve the overall economic climate in Zambia. A further risk arises
from the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education, which is weak
and could be impaired in the short term by the restructuring process. This
risk is being mitigated in the short term with the services of carefully
designed and mostly short term technical assistance provided by both
expatriates and Zambians. The World Bank is pursuing an ongoing dialogue
with the Government on the Public Service Reform Program, with a view to
ensuring that the Program achieves its objectives through a leaner but
better compensated and better equipped public service.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 14, 1999.
- 3 -



