Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22319
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35300; SCPD-3530S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$240 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 11, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 6, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMS           -  Bridge Management System
DF            -  Diversion Factor
EA            -  Environmental Assessment
E&M           -  Electrical and Mechanical
EIRR          -  Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV          -  Economic Net Present Value
FKE           -  Foshan-Kaiping Expressway
GP            -  Guangdong Province
GPCD          -  Guangdong Provincial Communications Department
GPFC          -  Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company
GPED          -  Guangdong Province Expressway Development Company
GPHAB         -  Guangdong Province Highway Administration Bureau
HAB           -  Highway Administration Bureau
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR           -  Implementation Completion Report
LTE           -  Longgang-Tanxi Expressway
MOC           -  Ministry of Communications
NCB           -  National Competitive Bidding
PAP           -  Project Affected People
PHAB          -  Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
RDB           -  Road Data Base
RIP           -  Road Improvement Program
PMS           -  Pavement Management System
SAR           -  Staff Appraisal Report
SPC           -  State Planning Commission
VOC           -  Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Michel Bellier



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               14
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             46
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                               52
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                             53
Annex 10. Securitization Operations                                               55
Maps
IBRD23927R: Guangdong Province Highway Project
IBRD 23928R: Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highway
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003518                                         Project Name: GUANGDONG PROV.
TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Michel Bellier                                 TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR             Report Date: June 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                        L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35300;
SCPD-3530S
CountryIDepartment: CHINA                                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/28/89                                  Effective: 03/16/93             03/24/93
Appraisal:  02/13/92                                    MTR:
Approval:  11/17/92                                  Closing:  06/30/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: PRC/GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
(GPCD)
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum                         Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:      Yukon Huang                                 Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:       Jitendra N. Bajpai                          Daud Ahmad
Team Leader at ICR:   Michel Bellier                              Stephen Stares
ICR Primary Author:   Jacques G. Yenny; Hank Yen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were the following:
(i) relieve congestion in two major traffic corridors (Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi);
(ii) improve other national and provincial roads carrying substantial volumes of traffic;
(iii) promote the transfer of highway technology through training and provision of equipment;
(iv) develop institutional capability in highway design, planning and prioritization; and
(v) support reforms of the highway financing system in Guangdong Province.
The objectives were clear and in line with the sector assistance strategy and the Government of
China request to the Bank for continuous assistance in the highway subsector. In February/March 1990,
the Bank undertook, jointly with the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the Ministry of
Communications (MOC), a screening mission to make preliminary assessment of nine highways which had
been proposed to the Bank for financing. Two of the nine highways were located in Guangdong Province
(GP), and the mission concluded that they were among the highest priority of the screened projects in terns
of the expected economic and first year rates of return, and should forn the basis for a provincial highway
project for Bank financing.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project Objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Component                              Cost             Rating
CONSTRUCTION OF HIGH GRADE HIGHWAYS                     $594,000,000.00        S
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                                $119,000,000.00        S
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT                                 $15,200,000.00        S
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION                                 $14,500,000.00        S
HIGHWAY FINANCE STUDY                                      $300,000.00         S
ROAD SAFETY PILOT PROGRAM                                  $400,000.00         S
ROAD DATA BANK/PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT                         $200,000.00         S
SYSTEM
STAFF TRAINING                                            $2,500,000.00        S
LAND ACQUISITION/RESETTLEMENT                            $49,500,000.00        S
Since the implementing agency was a first-time executing agency for a Bank project, there was a
risk in implementing the major highway components of the project in a timely manner. However, the
preparation of the project was assisted by the Bank's experience in previous provincial projects and by the
more active involvement of MOC.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory. The objectives were consistent with Government priorities
and the Bank's sector strategy. Design and technical specifications were reviewed by Bank staff with the
assistance of foreign consultants under a grant fund from the Danish Trust Fund. Because of the difficult
subsoil conditions on the two highways, two test embankments were built in advance of the main works to
investigate the extent and timing of necessary soft soil treatments. Safeguard policies on environment and
resettlement were followed by the province and found satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite some minor shortcomings during implementation, the project outcome is considered
satisfactory and its objectives have been met. The two major highways, the Foshan-Kaiping Expressway
(FKE) and the Longgang-Tanxi Expressway (LTE) were both opened to traffic in December 1996, as
scheduled. The objective of reducing congestion in the corridors has been met with traffic on the highways
taking from 27 to 67% of the total corridor traffic in 1999. Furthermore, the economic benefits are
considered sustainable, without any predictable elements of risk, as traffic has been growing rapidly since
opening.
The rural Road Improvement Program (RIP) has had a very beneficial impact on the local
communities served by the improved roads. These roads have provided immediate and substantial benefits
to the affected communities by connecting remote areas to major centers. Increasing traffic and easier
transport of local produce have enhanced the living standards of the populations served by the roads,
according to evidence gathered by the Borrower. The re-estimated ERR confirms the expected level of
viability of the investments made and highlights the high priority of investing in areas with economic
potential but with poor road infrastructure.
The impact of technology transfer through training is not easy to measure due to difficulties in
defining baseline parameters. However, the training overseas and the study tours provided a satisfactory
level of exposure to new concepts and incentives for adoption in the Chinese environment The acquisition
of experience and technology transfer through acquisition of modem equipment for operation and
maintenance of the Guangdong provincial highway network contributed to ensure that the Guangdong
highways are adequately maintained.
Institutional capabilities for planning and investment prioritization were developed through the
successful introduction of road data base (RDB) and pavement and bridge management system (PMS and
BMS) programs for the core arterial road network of the province. This was achieved through the adoption
of the Chinese RDB, PMS and BMS programs, which were developed for nationwide application. All three
management systems were in first stage operation by July 2000. There is still more development work to
be done until these three systems can be integrated and used efficiently on both the provincial and city level
for programming annual maintenance expenditures.
Regarding reform of the highway financing system in the province, a study financed by the project
was completed early on. The results were somewhat theoretical and attempts to seek trust funds to
- 3 -



continue studying the matter were not successful. However, Guangdong province then proceeded with an
innovative form of financing by securitizing the revenues of one of the project highways through share
issues.
In fact, because of the favorable prospects for continued strong economic activity in the influence
area of the FKE, the Guangdong Provincial Government was able to raise RMB 484 million (US$62
million) in 1996 and RMB 528 million (US$65 million) in 1997 through the issuance of shares by GPED,
securitized by revenues from the Highway (details in section 8.1), and issued on the Shenzhen stock
exchange.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Construction of High-Grade Highways
Civil Works. Both the FKE and the LTE were successfully completed and opened to traffic on
schedule in December 1996. Because of the pressure to complete the work on time, construction quality
was an issue through the first years of construction, but eventually improved. The effect of settlement at
the approaches to bridges have been well repaired and maintenance of both highways since opening to
traffic has been good with repairs to infrastructure normally completed within 48 hours in emergency cases
only, such as collapsed slopes.
Electrical and Mechanical Works (E&M!. The two supply and install contracts for these works
were delayed for a number of reasons described more fully in section 5.3. As a result, the loan closing date
was extended by one year to June 30, 2000. Fortunately, the delays had no substantive adverse effect on
the operation of the two highways. Traffic has been using the highways since December 1996, and tolls
were collected using temporary toll collection facilities.
Environmental Protection. Crossing fairly urbanized areas, the two highways did not affect
ecologically sensitive areas and it was judged that with appropriate actions, the project would not have an
adverse environmental impact. The environmental assessment (EA) report specified measures related to
social disruption, air quality, noise control, water management, control of traffic, operation of quarries and
waste disposal. The engineering design and technical specifications incorporated the mitigating measures
required during implementation. During the construction of the highway, no adverse environmental
problems emerged. Noise barriers were erected, shrubs planted in the median and slopes protected with
shrubs, grass and trees. All the planting appears to be well protected, healthy and well tended and efforts
are being made to landscape pockets of land along the highways. The overall impression is
environmentally and aesthetically pleasing. Noise monitoring continued since the opening of the roads and
the installation of an additional 212 m. of noise barriers along the FKE was decided. The only problem is
that illegal residential construction very close to the highways, particularly the FKE continues to plague the
Expressway Authority. Despite efforts by both FKE and LTE, they have been unable to persuade local
governments to address the problem.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Land acquisition, demolition of structures and relocation of
utilities took somewhat longer than expected, particularly along the urban sections of the FKE.
Resettlement action plans prepared for the two highways were implemented well and completed by
February 1999.
-4 -



Road Improvement Program (RIP)
Civil Works. The original RIP comprised 86 subprojects with a total length of 1,260 km. The
implementation of the program was to be phased with subproject packages prepared according to agreed
criteria and procedures, and submitted to the Bank for approval. Projects were eventually grouped into
three packages totaling 41 subprojects executed under 77 contracts. They were all completed by the end of
1997. The quality of construction has been good.
Environmental Protection. Supervision missions have reported from selected field surveys of roads
improved under the RIP that all roads were well constructed with proper drainage, pedestrian crossing
facilities, etc.; that the drains were well maintained; that the grassed shoulders were well cared for; and that
the local highway bureaus had carried extensive planting along the highways. As a result, the effect was
striking and environmentally pleasing. Along some roads, the incidence of dust pollution, compared to the
original dirt roads, had dropped so much that farmers reported 30 percent increases in crop yield.
Resettlement. The Resettlement Action Plans for the RIP were not as thorough as those for the two
highways. The Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (PHAB) delegated resettlement responsibilities
to county administrations and they were carried out by the Township Land Bureaus according to local
policies and local understanding of laws and regulation. Compensation rates were therefore low except for
housing. However, since the RIP component consisted mostly of upgrading of existing roads, the impact of
resettlement was generally low. Local administrations and project affected people (PAP) were eager to
have RIP projects in their communities due to the expected benefits to the community and the individuals.
Supervision missions found that there was a general improvement of livelihoods of the affected
communities and PAP due to the projects and that no lasting negative impact of resettlement were
encountered.
Equipment.
Equipment to be purchased under the project was to assist construction supervision and the general
development of highway activities, in particular maintenance, in the province at large. The procurement of
equipment went smoothly and was completed in October 1997.
Highway Finance Study.
The study was completed by the Xian Institute of Highways and GPCD's Science Research
Institute and the World Bank Finance Office in December 1992. It was reviewed in Guangdong by two
British consultants in April/May 1993. It was subsequently reviewed in the Bank and discussed during
supervision missions. A revised draft was completed in September 1994. The report proposed 7 sources
of financing with 19 methods of mobilizing such financing. The methods were not described in detail and
the recommendations were theoretical. The Bank recommended that GPCD should develop some of the
recommendations in a practical way and GPCD discussed five possible measures with the provincial
authorities, but no concrete result was achieved. Then in 1996, GPCD innovated with the securitization of
the FKE and share issues in Shenzhen, to mobilize funds from foreign and domestic investors.
Road Safety Pilot Program.
The Highway Administration Bureau (HAB) took some time to prepare a detailed implermentation
program for this component. In fact, by mid-1995, some 40% of the black spots, originally identified and
agreed as part of the program, had already been improved outside the program. A new program was
- 5 -



submitted to the Bank at the end of 1995 and implementation started in 1996. Implementation was slower
than expected due to a shortage of local funds and generally a lack of commitment from the HAB.
Nevertheless, by mid-1998, all activities planned to remedy black spots were completed. Since then, no
accidents have been reported at any of these locations. Road safety was discussed at meetings of the
provincial Highway Traffic Engineering Association. Also in 1995, the HAB established a road safety unit
and the staff of this unit has been actively cooperating with the police since then. More recently, the
province has launched a Road Safety Information Campaign on TV and mass media to increase awareness
about the road safety situation, help change the attitude toward safety and improve road user behavior.
Road Data Bank/Pavement Management System.
In October 1994, HAB received equipment for the RDB/PMS financed by the project. Canadian
trust fund consultants visited Guangdong and other provinces with similar Bank financed components in
early 1995 to assist with program start-up. By early 1996, there was a good deployment of the PMS to
most cities in the Province. However, the system is limited to asphalt paved roads; but, in Guangdong
province, many roads have a concrete surface and the Province is interested to develop a similar system for
concrete roads. A Bridge Management System (BMS) was introduced also, which now covers all bridges
with more than 10 m. length on national and provincial roads (except expressways and rural roads). The
implementation of the RDB started in 1997 and already has data for some 4,000 km of main roads and 700
km of expressways. Data collection for county roads has been completed and is being integrated in the
system. More work remains to integrate the three systems so that the whole set becomes an efficient
planning tool.
Training.
Training under the project has been successfully completed. The number of persons trained
overseas exceeds the number agreed at appraisal. The number trained domestically is somewhat less than
originally planned, but with a greater number of man-months of training, as it was decided to send fewer
people over longer periods. The training program covered many subjects, with a concentration on
management of maintenance on other projects, expressway operation, and highway planning and design.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Foshan-Kaiping Expressway
The Economic Intemal Rate of Retum (EIRR) on the FKE is estimated to be 14.7% versus the
SAR estimate of 21.4%, and the Economic Net Present Value (ENPV), at discount rate of 12%, is
estimated to be Y 971 million versus Y 1,881 million. The recalculated EIRR and ENPV are lower than
anticipated at appraisal mainly because of significant increases in the project costs. While the 1999 traffic
levels already exceeded forecasts by more than 50%, this was not enough to compensate for the increase in
costs in the economic evaluation. The detailed economic analysis is in Annex 3.
Longgang-Tanxi Expressway (LTE)
The EIRR for the LTE is estimated to be 14.8% versus the SAR estimate of 27.8%, and the
ENPV, at discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be Y 1,062 million versus Y 3,841 million. The
recalculated EIRR and ENPV are lower than anticipated at appraisal mainly because of significant
increases in the project costs. As with the FKE, in 1999 traffic levels exceeded SAR forecasts by 50 to
100%, depending on the section, but not by enough to compensate for the increase in costs in the economic
- 6 -



evaluation. The detailed economic analysis is in Annex 3.
Road Improvement Program (RIP)
The EIRR for the RIP as a whole is estimated at 42%. At appraisal, the economic analysis
covered only a first package of 24 roads sections. The EIRR for this first package was estimated at 55%.
During the project's implementation, the total RIP eventually improved 41 road sections. The total
economic cost of RIP also increased from Y 293 million to Y 1.1 billion, at December 2000 prices. Since
the project scope analyzed by this ICR and that of the SAR are substantially different, the returns cannot
be compared directly. Details are in Annex 3.
EIRR and NPV for the total project
The EIRR and ENPV for the total project is estimated to be 17.7% and Y 4.52 billion,
respectively, compared with 30% and Y 6.69 billion estimated in the SAR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two types of analyses. The first one is for
the revenue eaming highways; and the second for the non-revenue earning roads. The two toll roads, FKE
and LTE, are the only revenue earning roads in the project. The total cost of these two highways accounts
for about 88 percent of total project cost. There is no revenue from the roads improved under the RIP, and
the second type analysis focuses on the impact of the 41 road components under RIP on the finances of
GPCD. There was no financial evaluation of the project in the SAR. The detailed financial analysis is in
Annex 3.
Revenue Earning Entity
In December 1996, GPCD established two separate highway companies to operate the two new
highways. The toll charges are the main revenue for the companies, and they are strictly controlled by the
government. The net profit after tax is not expected to be high because of the rigid toll rates control and
the project cost over run. Since FKE and LTE are operated as separate legal entities, there is no financial
obligation between these two entities. The financial analysis has been done separately for each company.
The FIRR to total investment on FKE and LTE are estimated at 5.7% and 4.5%, respectively. The FNPV
is estimated to be Y 91 million for FKE and Y -504 million for LTE.
Non-revenue Earning Entity
All components under RIP are toll free. Since there is no revenue for RIP, the financial evaluation
focuses on the impact of the program future operating expenses on the financial situation of GPCD. The
analysis shows that the financial risks of not having enough revenues for supporting the maintenance of
these roads would be minimal. The maintenance expenditures on these roads will constitute only a small
fraction of GPCD budgets. Based on GPCD expenditures plan, the sum of the total maintenance
expenditure required for RIP roads is less than 0.6% of the total maintenance expenditure of GPCD during
the 9th and 10th FYP. These low financial requirements indicate a low financial risk that funds would be
insufficient for the future maintenance of the project components.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Within the project, measures were taken to strengthen GPCD and its relevant institutions. The
-7 -



experience with competitive bidding and having works done by contract rather than force account has been
successfully integrated and all new construction and major maintenance works in the province are now
done by contract. The project introduced Guangdong Provincial Communications Department (GPCD),
Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPFC), Guangdong Province Expressway Development
Company (GPED), Guangdong Province Highway Administration Bureau (GPHAB) and the county
highway departments to prequalification of contractors and competitive bidding for the first time in GP.
While all expressway contracts for civil works and E&M works were under ICB, all RIP components were
under NCB. GPCD and its sister organizations reported repeatedly to Bank supervision rnissions that
Bank's requirement for competitive selection of civil works contractors helped improve construction
quality, cost control, timeliness of contract completion and reduced opportunities for fraud and corruption.
Contractor prequalification and competitive bidding is now the rule in GP for highway construction,
including non-Bank financed projects. GPCD leadership has further reported to Bank missions that NCB
procedures now applied in GP under provincial and county highway departments to eliminate unsuitable
contractors from bidding, thus leading to longer contract sizes, more transparency, improved quality of
works and lower construction costs.
The staff training program financed by the project was successful and has been described above.
Since 1996, some provinces including Guangdong have recognized the value of expressways with growing
traffic volumes and toll revenues. The Chinese authorities found that, through the securitization of existing
highway assets, they were able to raise large sums of new capital from foreign and local investors. The
FKE was first securitized in 1996. Details are in section 8. 1.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although contractors were prequalifled under the ICB procedures, some of the awarded local
contractors lacked experience in carrying out major highway works of comparable magnitude and
complexity. Their managerial skills were inadequate and their material and financial resources stretched.
Quality was a constant problem and the Bank continuously insisted that the supervision team tighten
quality control. Contractors on the FKE were generally better than those on the LTE. The construction
supervision inputs were at the level estimated at appraisal, totaling about 229 person-month by foreign
engineers and 10,800 man-month by domestic supervisors. The foreign engineering personnel helped
establish the framework and procedures for the supervisory work and trained the GPCD staff, local
engineers and technicians. Such training was not only a significant means of technology transfer but also an
essential measure for trying to ensure effective control of the quality of expressway construction with
adequately trained personnel. The performance of the supervision team was generally satisfactory and
construction quality gradually improved.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
On contracts in urban areas, land acquisition, resettlement, demolition of structures and relocation
of utilities proceeded slower than anticipated. The problem was less on rural sections. The delay in
providing the work sites combined with the difficult start up for a number of contractors, for reasons given
above, resulted in the civil works falling behind schedule in the first two years. Also more soft soils were
encountered than anticipated and numerous design changes had to be made (section 5.4). This could have
been avoided by further investigations at the design stage. There existed the phenomenon of catching up
with the progress, despite exhortations of supervision missions to put quality first. As a result, some
repairs became necessary shortly after opening to traffic.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 8-



The one-year project completion delay was predominantly due to the delay in the preparation,
procurement and implementation of the E&M works. Together with the Zhejiang project (effective six
months earlier than Guangdong) these were the first highway projects in China to include, from the early
project preparation stage, all the required E&M facilities needed for operating the expressway, including:
tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting. Bidding for the E&M contracts was originally
scheduled to be completed in May 1995, with supply and installation to be completed in December 1996
when the roads were to open for traffic. However, because the Employer primarily focused on the timely
completion of the civil works and lacked experience with the type of E&M works required for expressway
operations, the formulation and design of this component was delayed. The bidding documents were issued
only in November 1996, and further delays were encountered during ICB procurement procedures, so that
the two E&M contracts for FKE and LTE were awarded in July and September 1998, respectively. Part of
the delay resulted from the Bank's introduction of the two stage bidding method, which had not been used in
China before and was controversial. The quality of implementation appears good and works were
completed by the closing date of the project. However, the liability period of both ICB contracts will only
occur later.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The final costs of the two expressways were substantially higher than the bid prices. Total costs
increased by 86% for FKE and 114% for LTE. The largest factor contributing to the cost increase was the
large number of variation orders, of which there were over 1,200 on FKE, accounting for 45% of the cost
increase, and almost 1,300 on LTE, accounting for 80% of the cost increase. The rest of the cost increase
is due to adjustment of exchange rate, price escalation and various other factors. The reasons for the large
number of variations included: a) changes in design due to worse than expected soil conditions (such as
piles on some bridges, foundations of other bridges and new sections of soft soils), change in pavement
structures, etc.; b) changes due to the booming local development, as about five years had passed between
the design and the start of construction, this implied replacing embankments by viaducts to limit
resettlement and adding new expressway crossings to maintain local communications; c) changes in
construction methods drawing on experience gained since the original design was made; and d) effects of
the typhoons requiring more slope protection, additional drainage and support for a better landscape. The
Bank required GPCD to submit the justification of these variation orders on a contract by contract basis.
GPCD's report was audited by the Bank and no objection was granted for variation orders fitting within the
amount of financing available in the loan. There were no changes in disbursement rates. The Bank stayed
involved in expressway construction until its end.
The costs of other components were more in line with appraisal estimates.
In the four fiscal years (FY94 to FY98), loan disbursements were either in line or ahead of the
SAR forecast. However, because of the delay in procuring the E&M works, disbursements slowed down
as the project was extended by one year.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
During construction of the expressways, soil settlements and other construction problems were
noticed and, to a large extent, immediately rectified. Since then, required repairs and maintenance are being
done promptly. The operating rights granted to the public-private expressway development company
provide incentives for the provision of a high level of service to road users, including adequate routine and
-9-



periodic maintenance. The rapidly increasing traffic ensures sustainability of the project benefits.
The sustainability of the Road Improvement Program under the project depends upon subsequent
adequate routine and periodic maintenance of the roads. The management of maintenance of these roads is
the responsibility of counties that have to rely on local revenues for the additional capital and recurring
expenditures for the roads. Prospects for sustainability are high since high density rural populations exert
strong pressures on county road departments to maintain all sections upgraded under the RIP.
The equipment for maintenance and operation of highways procured under the project should
provide adequate long-term service, since sufficient stock of essential spares have been purchased and
naintenance facilities have been provided.
The lessons and knowledge learned from the staff training program are expected to be disseminated
within the provincial institutions involved, and have a long-term influence on provincial road administration
and management methods and highway-specific technology.
The methodology of the pavement evaluation and the application of the Chinese RDB, PMS and
BMS programs have been deployed in all parts of the province that have asphalt roads. It is expected that,
with the regularly collected input data and the full integration of the three components, the system will
provide the necessary output information to help make better investment decisions for road imnprovement
and maintenance.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In 1996, part of the equity of the FKE was transferred to the Guangdong Province Expressway
Development Company (GPED), prior to the opening of the expressway. There has been no particular
problem in operating the two expressways since their opening to traffic.
As mentioned above, the two expressways were operated in the first three years before installation
of permanent E&M equipment and tolls had been collected with temporary facilities. With the completion
of E&M equipment installation by mid year 2000 on FKE and LTE, all mechanical, electrical and
electronic facilities are now operated on a permanent basis. Toll revenue leakage during the initial three
years after opening of FKE and LTE was estimated to be in the order of 3-5%.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.  Lending:
The project was identified in a joint mission of the Bank and Govemment officials (section 3.1).
The intensity of Bank resources during preparation was above average; about 566 person-days were spent
on field preparation (missions) from the identification through appraisal stages of the project. The major
risk identified during appraisal was a delay in the completion of the expressways and the quality of
construction due to the difficult subsoil conditions along the project corridors. To counter this risk, two test
embankments were built in advance of the main works to identify the extent and timing of soft soil
treatment required. Furthermore, the institutional capacity of the implementing agency was considered to
be a risk, since the implementing agency was a first-time borrower of Bank funds. To mitigate this risk,
the project was designed with the assistance of foreign experts, prequalification of contractors was made
particularly stringent, and supervision arrangements were carefully formulated to ensure regular monitoring
and effective quality control. In spite of these well identified issues, it was difficult to obtain an adequate
quality in the early stages of the project due to lack of attention to construction quality and pressures to
- 10 -



open the highway early.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank mounted 11 supervision missions during 1992-2000, which is on average just slightly
more than one mission per year. Continuity of staffing on the project was generally achieved, with only one
change in project manager during construction, in 1995. The skill mix of missions was adequate and
responsive to the need of the customer, in particular to review the applications for issuing shares for the
FKE expressway. Resettlement and environment specialists participated in most supervision missions from
the early stages of supervision. Specialized reviews were provided by the resettlement specialist who also
conducted interviews of project affected persons several years after they had been resettled. Environmental
specialists followed the project not only during the construction but also during operation of the two
expressways. Since those were already opened to traffic at the end of 1996, they had a rare chance to
monitor impacts, such as noise, for over three years until the project closing date. The Bank has shown
flexibility in dealing with the many change orders mentioned in section 5.4. Regarding procurement, the
Bank's insistence to use two stage bidding for the E&M works created problems for the borrower, since this
had not been expected. It added substantial time to the procurement of this component of the project and
had been reversed to one stage bidding, including prequalification for the follow-up project. In response to
the Borrower's request to extend the loan closing date, the Bank concluded that a one-year extension of the
project was reasonable for completing the still outstanding E&M works. Finally it gave three no objections
to the sale and transfer of shares for the FKE.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Despite the one year delay in implementing parts of the project, the overall Bank perfonmance is
considered to be satisfactory. It should be recognized that the development of the provincial expressway
network was in its early stages at the beginning of the 1990s and that GPCD was a first-time Bank
borrower, not familiar with international business practices and FIDIC conditions of bidding, contracting
and supervising major civil works.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GPCD's preparation of the project was reasonable, considering the limited base of technical and
managerial experience in developing large scale, complex highway projects. The experience under this
project highlighted several deficiencies in the Chinese planning and preparation process, such as improper
cost estimating methods; minimizing the technical complexity of the project; and not anticipating the
difficulties of procuring major works, including timely land acquisition.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was fully committed to the project, even pushing the pace of construction of the
expressways beyond prudent practice. Counterpart funds were provided on time, except for the road safety
component. However, the process for obtaining internal clearances for bidding documents and evaluation
reports was slower than expected, due to the cumbersome internal process involving both provincial and
central government agencies.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
GPCD demonstrated strong commitment and effort to achieve the project's objectives, including
both the physical objectives such as construction of the FKE and LTE and the RIP, and the institutional
- 11 -



development objectives in road management (RDB/PMS/BMS) and staff training. Despite the problems
encountered by contractors from time to time on account of a shortage of material supplies, lack of
financial resources and contract administration skills, the Employer was able to help overcome such
difficulties with the support of the supervision units. Since the experience with the supply and installation
work of modem traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems in China was very limited in the
early 1 990s, it is understandable that the Employer had problems in designing and procuring the proper
E&M works for the two expressways.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower has complied substantially with the conditionalities of the loan and project
agreements. The Bank's procedures and requirements were substantially followed. The cooperation
between the Borrower and the Bank was cordial throughout preparation, appraisal and implementation of
the project. Consequently, the overall Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Securitization of Bankfinanced assets
This is the most innovative aspect of the project, described in detail in Annex 10. Main steps were
as follows:
3   Realizing that their ambitious plan to develop a network of expressways in the province could not be
achieved with budgetary allocations and domestic and foreign borrowing alone, the provincial
authorities established in 1993 a new financing vehicle, the Guangdong Provincial Expressway
Development Shareholding Company (GPED). The company was established to help mobilize foreign
and domestic equity capital for highway construction.
3   In May 1996, MOF requested the Bank's no objection (given promptly in June 1996) for Guangdong's
issuance of B shares on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange for overseas investors in order to mobilize
additional counterpart funding of RMB 484 million (US$62 million) to fund the construction of FKE.
Proceeds were applied up to RMB 334 million to that purpose, with GPED having acquired a 25%
operating interest in the expressway.
*   A second operation was undertaken by GPFC and GPED in 1997, following approval by the Bank,
with a RMB 528 million (US$65 million) share issue by GPED on the Shenzhen A share market, of
which RMB 413, 550,000.00 (US$49,680,000.00) were applied to the acquisition from GPFC of an
additional 10% participation in FKE.
*   Finally, Bank approval was sought again in February 1999 for the acquisition by GPED of another
16% ownership interest in FKE.
Securitization operations contributed significantly to the financing of FKE without any liability to
sovereign or sub-sovereign agencies for the repayment, since the funds raised through these transactions
were in effect leveraged by the future traffic stream on FKE. They were completed with no effect on Bank
policies regarding loan implementation, enhanced development objectives, and had the effect of involving
the private sector in toll roads operations. They also offer a number of valuable lessons and experiences for
the refinement and possible future application of this financing technique, on the following aspects:
*   Efforts to securitize existing revenue-producing assets such as toll roads with the involvement of
credible international institutions, such as the World Bank, will continue to be an important
capital-raising device for the country.
*   The level of project preparation and due diligence normally required by the Bank for leveraging its
- 12 -



assets in the financial markets provides a needed level of security to commercial financial institutions
and investors in China who would otherwise look to an established policy framework, which at present
is still in the formative stages. The Guangdong experience illustrates the need for a close relationship
between a thorough review of the transaction by the Bank and the timing established by the sponsoring
agency and its underwriters to take the offering to market.
*  Exposure to the requirements of private investors was also a strong incentive for GPED to consistently
strengthen management and compliance with strict financial standards, thereby improving the quality
and efficiency of toll road operation.
*   An option to consider in the future is the issuance of fixed price bonds which are securitized by existing
assets and priced at a rate and term in the credit markets, which may be preferable to the volatility
which has characterized most equity markets around the world.
8.2 Relevant design of the expressway
As discussed above, substantial cost overruns were encountered in the construction of FKE and
LTE. A more in-depth preparation of the project, comprising detailed soil investigations in the technically
difficult sections during engineering feasibility studies and prior to procurement of civil works, would be
cost effective in securing the technical design and selecting suitable construction methods.
Monitoring construction implementation
The soil settlement problem needing further remedial works has already been mentioned. Since the
problem had been identified during project preparation, the monitoring of embankment settlement rate
should have been more strictly enforced, and pavement work should have been delayed until the settlement
reached more stable condition.
8.3 Preparation and Execution of E&M Works for the Two Expressways
The one-year delay of the completion of the project is mostly attributable to the delay in the E&M
works (section 5.3). Sinilar delays occurred under other Bank-financed highway projects being
implemented in the early 1990s and the Bank now ensures that: the bidding documents and engineering
designs for E&M works are completed more or less at the same time as those for the civil works contracts;
and the tendering activities commence at least two years before the civil works are expected to be
completed.
8.4 Road Improvement Program
The GPHAB had tentatively identified 86 subprojects for inclusion in the RIP, some of which were
located in the less developed areas of the Province. The Bank's supervision missions visited a number of
road sections built and improved under the project and confirmed that the significant expected benefits were
accrued and the living standard of the population along the corridors improved. People living in the
corridors directly expressed their appreciation to the Bank for its support and involvement in the poverty
targeted projects. More involvement in construction and rehabilitation of lower class roads, which would
directly help remote communities to alleviate poverty, should be encouraged in the Bank's future lending
program.
- 13-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1 General
(Contribution from GPCD)
The Guangdong Provincial Highway Project was pre-appraised by World Bank in November 1991, and
appraised in March 1992. The Loan Negotiation was held in Washington D.C. in September 1992, the
UD$ 240 million Loan agreement and the Project Agreement were signed on December 26, 1992, and the
Loan was declared effective on March 16, 1993. The original loan closing date was June 30, 1999, but it
was extended to June 30, 2000. All tasks referred to in the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement and
Project Agreement have been completed around the extended closing date.
9.2 Project Implementation
( Contribution from GPCD)
In addition to the description of all project components and the general data on project implementation,
which are covered in the Project QR No. 28 submitted to the Bank on July 5, 2000, some additional
information are given as follows:
*   Since FKE and LTE were opened to traffic at the end of 1996, traffic flow and toll revenue have
increased steadily. Traffic grew by 138.6% on FKE and 134.5% on LTE between 1997 and 2000,
while toll revenue increased by 142.0% and 145.4%.
*  As there is no mainline toll station located between the Guangzhou-Foshan Expressway (GFE) and
FKE, since the extension and reconstruction of the E&M equipment on GFE have been delayed, the
main netting function of the two expressways cannot yet be implemented. The completion of Contract
EKOS regarding E&M works is expected by June 2001.
*  The main Zhangcha complex, under Contract FK06 on annex works, has been completed by the end of
2000.
*  All loan amounts have been completely withdrawn and settled by October 2000.
9.3 Assessment of the Work
( Contribution from GPCD)
Assessment of the work by the Bank
Since the Bank project identification mission visited Guangdong in November 1989, many rnissions
were sent to carry out, in close cooperation with SPC, MOC, GPPC, GPCD and GPWBO, project
preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisaL. Subsequently, once the project implementation commenced, the
Bank's supervision missions visited Guangdong at least once a year. The most recent mission discussed the
lessons that can be drawn from the project. For years, the Bank's missions, composed of specialists in
various fields, have completed numerous and fruitful tasks during their visits to Guangdong to identify,
prepare the project, and promote its successful implementation. All these results were recorded in the
mission Aide Memoires, which were confirmed by the Bank management, and won high opinion from the
- 14 -



project Owner at all levels.
The project Staff Appraisal Report, which is based on the findings of the Bank's appraisal Mission
headed by Mr. Steven Stares, Senior Transport Specialist, described and evaluated in details all the project
components; it forms an essential element of the project documentation and for the on-going project
post-appraisal.
During project preparation, the Bank assisted the project Owner to secure a grant from the Bank
Consultant Trust Fund that financed consultant's services. An expert team was hired from Kampsax/DRD
to review, in close collaboration with HSDI I, GHDI and ITC, the final design and the bid documentation of
the FKE and LTE in July 1992.
As the Bank-financed projects possess international, governmental, bilateral, reciprocal and
cooperative features, the Bank missions carried out an effective project management throughout its
implementation, in close cooperation with the project Owner and strictly in accordance with the terms of
the Loan and Project Agreements and other relevant documents. The project Owner extends his general
satisfaction to the Bank arrangements, methods and procedures, and to the results of the selection and
employment of consultants, the procurement of works and of equipment under each project component.
The Bank supported and assisted the project Owner in the conduct of a study about highway
financing methods in Guangdong, which reached the objectives assigned by a TOR outlined in the SAR. In
addition, the Bank paid a particular attention to the innovative securitizations of assets carried out by
GPED through the issue of A and B shares, and assisted in the organization of a dedicated workshop. The
workshop conclusions are annexed to the ILICR.
The Bank also paid high attention to the Road Improvement Program and Road Safety Pilot
Program and supervised their implementation. The Bank supported these programs to further promote the
strengthening of and improvements in the Guangdong highway system, as forecasted in the SAR. Those
improvements were very beneficial to the economics of the mountainous areas and to the people affected.
The Bank provided its assistance to the procurement of equipment and instruments, the training program,
the development and improvement of the Road Data Bank and Pavement Management System, and to their
extension province-wide as a main supplemental tool used for project identification and for the
prioritization of the RIP program.
Since major variations and cost increases in expressway civil works and delays in the completion
of expressway E&M works were incurred during project implementation, the Bank, in coordination with
the project Owner and domestic governmental authorities, took timely measures to approve an adjustment
of the amount of the Loan, and to extend the Loan closing date in order to ensure a smooth completion of
the whole project.
Assessment of the work by the Owner
Since the project Owner was for the first time an executing agency and lacked experience in a
Bank-financed highway project in Guangdong, he was prone to risks and difficulties in implementing the
major highway components of the project in a timely manner. However, the project implementation was
assisted by the Bank and by domestic experience in previous Bank-financed highway projects. SPC and
MOC in the Central Government, and the Provincial Government extended a vigorous support to the
project. To ensure a timely completion of the project preparation, of its appraisal and implementation, the
project Owner (GPCD) took a series of measures as follows:
- 15-



The World Bank Finance Office was founded in May 1991 as a united project management
organization under the direction of GPCD. The executing organizations and procurement agencies were
organized in accordance with project components. GPFC was the executing organization for the
construction and management of FKE and LTE, and it was made responsible for reporting, disbursement,
financing and auditing under the project. GPHAB was the executing organization of the RIP / RSPP
program and responsible for the development of the RDB / PMS. The technical assistance regarding the
highway financing and the staff training program were directly executed by divisions of GPCD. CITC was
designated by GPFC as its procurement agency for ICB civil works contracts under FKE and LTE.
CMC-ITC was designated by GPFC as its procurement agency for the ICB E&M works contracts of FKE
and LTE and for the ICB equipment contracts under the project.
During the project preparation and appraisal, domestic procedures fell behind the Bank's progress.
In order to catch up and ensure simultaneous progress, the project Owner, under the leadership of
ministerial and provincial government levels, worked out a meticulously organized schedule satisfying the
procedural requirements of both the govemrnents and the Bank. It included the expedition of the project
formulation approval, the review and approval of feasibility study reports and preliminary designs, the
review and approval of engineering and bid documentation as well as the provision of numerous data and
information needed by the Bank, particularly to conform to some new requirements on EA, EAP and RAP.
By putting it into effect for each scheduled activity and in close collaboration with each partner, all the
early stage works of the two key expressway project components and the first package of RIP sub-projects
were finished and finalized within 2 years or less, keeping pace with the procedural requirements of Bank's
project preparation and appraisal .
The expressway project component was constructed in conformity with the state bidding system
and used the international FIDIC contract model for the first time in Guangdong. The Employer's
representatives (the FKE and LTE construction Preparation Offices), authorized by the Employer (GPFC),
executed the Employer's obligations strictly in accordance with the contract terms; they also carried out
land acquisition and resettlement, local coordination, fund raising, variations, payment, EAP's actions, etc.
They provided a favorable construction climate for Contractors and, in coordination with the Engineer,
supervised and controlled the progress, quality, safety and costs of contracted works. In spite of a delay in
land acquisition and of damages suffered from a typhoon 3 years since commencement, the FKE and LTE
mainlines were completed and opened to trial traffic in December 1996 with the support on every aspect
and joint efforts of Contractors. Subsequently, after the other works, mainly the FK05 and FK07 E&M
works, were basically completed, GPFC sent their completion reports to the Bank via WBFO, GPCD in
March 2000. GPFC and the EO prepared and sent the completion report for civil construction of FKE and
LTE to the Bank earlier in January 1997. Finally, MOC conducted the final acceptance of both
expressways in January 2000. Moreover, all programmed RIP sub-projects were completed by the end of
1998. After final acceptance, the results for the highway strengthening and improvement in Guangdong
were found to be satisfactory and consistent with the SAR. The work quality, assessed through final
acceptance, was also generally satisfactory.
Environmental protection and environmental monitoring
The project Owner prepared an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) for both FKE and LTE in
January 1991, which specified the measures required for mitigating the potential adverse effects on the
environment during the construction and operation of the expressway, and the organizational and
monitoring arrangements. Prior to Loan negotiation, the executing summaries of these EAPs were reviewed
and approved by the SEAP and the Bank. GPHAB also prepared a sectoral EAP for the RIP sub-projects,
- 16 -



specifying the environmental protection measures to be taken by sector during the construction and
operation of sub-projects. These EAPs were completely executed throughout the project implementation.
After project launching, GPFC established its Environmental Protection Division (EPD) and branch EPDs
with the FKE and LTE Construction Preparation Offices in March 1993. It staffed them with professional
and concurrent-posted personnel. All the residential supervision offices under the Engineer Office were also
staffed with concurrent-posted environmental supervisors. The Environmental Monitoring Station, under
EPD, GPFC was responsible for the environmental monitoring during the expressway construction, and the
routine environmental monitoring during their operation was conducted directly by the Central Lab, GPFC.
GPHAB, in cooperation with the environmental protection authorities of the affected counties, was
responsible for the supervision and monitoring of the EAPs on the implemented sub-projects; the
environmental supervisors of the construction supervision units conducted on-the-spot supervision. During
the final acceptance, the verification of environment protection works was carried out with the local
environmental protection authorities. As the construction and operation of FKE and LTE had a noise
impact on the expressway surroundings, the Bank environmental supervision mission requested the owner
to undertake a noise evaluation and forecast on selected sensitive locations, by using a noise model
recommended by a Bank mission in July 1996. The measures to mitigate the adverse effects were taken into
consideration according to the results of the evaluation. Through the follow-up routine monitoring at the
eight monitoring locations selected after adjustment, appropriate mitigating measures were taken when
results fell beyond the standards, in line with the local reality and potentialities. SEPA conducted and
approved the final acceptance of the environmental protection works of LTE and FKE in August 1998 and
December 1999. The Bank environmental supervision mission made an on-the-spot inspection of some
RIP's sub-projects and extended its satisfactory assessment to completed environmental protection works.
Resettlement
According to the policies and procedural requirements regarding land acquisition and resettlement,
specified by the Government and the Bank, the project Owner prepared a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
for FKE, LTE and the RIP during project appraisal, and deternined the land and crop compensation and
resettlement subsidy payment, established a land acquisition and resettlement organization as well as the
general and independent monitoring of the project. The Resettlement Office, GPFC and the RIP authority
under GPHAB separately signed agreements on land acquisition, house relocation and resettlement with the
local construction headquarter. The annual resettlement report and social independent monitoring reports
submitted to the Bank during years 1993-1998 and many site visits made by the Bank supervision missions
indicated that the implementation of these RAPs has generally improved the living standards of the
project-affected people, or at least restored them. The land acquisition and relocation compensation
payments were granted to the affected persons, households and units through different channels.
Highway financing technical assistance and staff training
In order to prepare and implement an updated highway financing system in Guangdong, as outlined
in the TOR of the highway financing TA, the project Owner in coordination with the Xi'an Highway
Transport University and TECN ECON consultant conducted a study program stressing the current status
of highway financing in Guangdong. As a result of the study, four effective financing methods, such as the
issuance of stocks or bonds, the establishment of an overseas financing window, the transfer of operational
rights, and BOTs were selected from nineteen exiting possible financing sources, to be further explored and
implemented. Through an evaluation by experts and the Bank, the completed study report has reached the
initial objectives. Regarding staff training, the project Owner prepared a series of training programs
including general and construction supervision training at the stage of project appraisal. Apart from the
construction supervision training which was essentially implemented according to the construction
supervision consulting service contracts, the overseas study tours and training program were adjusted
- 17-



annually through a rolling 2-year training plan and were successfully executed in coordination with the
TCU of MOC. As compared with the original program, the overseas study tours and training increased
both in terms of number of trainees and person-months; fewer people were trained in the domestic training
program but the number of person-months exceeded what was planned. The completed training has
generally reached the forecasted objectives. Trainees acquired abroad a much updated knowledge and
management experience, which was of major importance for raising the highway construction level in
Guangdong.
Project equipment procurement
According to the procedural requirements specified by the domestic authority and the Bank, the
project Owner arranged the procurement method and schedule for the main equipment procurement list
according to provisions prepared at appraisal, and an adjusted list was confirmed by the Bank. GPFC
established an equipment procurement team, in cooperation with GPHAB, to be responsible for the
procurement of project equipment; it was completed and put in use by October 1997.
Expressway operation. maintenance and management
As early as the trial traffic opening of FKE and LTE, the project Owner established GPFKE Co.,
Ltd to be responsible for the toll collection, loan repayment, operation, maintenance and management of
FKE. Two expressway construction preparation offices were organized, and GPFC established the
Shenzhen-Shantou (West section) Administration Division to be responsible for the routine tolling
surveillance of LTE. Both expressway authorities set up and staffed expressway administration and
maintenance teams to ensure the routine on-the-duty patrol, rescue and maintenance.
The project Owner strictly followed the Loan and Project Agreements and relevant documents. All
records and reports (including annual project audit reports, project quarterly reports, expressway
construction monthly reports and summary reports as well as other reports and statements as required for
various project components) were adequately prepared.
Assessment of the work by the supervision engineers
To ensure that project management and contractual management was made strictly according to the
procedural requirements specified by domestic authorities and the Bank, the project Owner organized a
Chinese / foreign joint supervision team for the construction of FKE and LTE. The foreign consultant was
selected in a short list approved by the Bank in accordance with the "Guideline for the use of Consultants".
Through procedural evaluation, the project Owner selected LBII, U.S.A. to form a Joint Supervision Team
with the Guangdong Communications Research Institute responsible, which carried out a 3-level
(EO-ERO-REO) supervision of construction. Each contract was staffed with on-duty qualified senior
resident engineers and stand-by supervision engineers. The EROs under EO were made responsible for
contract management and quality, progress and cost control as well as for the supervision of environmental
protection during construction. Through the practice of JST, positive and promoting initiatives were taken
with a view to modemize the management of expressway construction and standardize behaviors of all
parties to the contract through studying, digesting and applying FIDIC's terms and conditions. Imnediately
after the commencement of FKE and LTE, the EO and EROs ran at-the-post-training courses on the use of
CPM. GPFC, in collaboration with the EO, successively carried out a computer supported management
training for Primavera (P3) software (latest edition) aiming at channeling current contract management
with computer support.
Moreover, as required by MOF and the Bank in the new SBD, the project Owner authority
- 18-



assigned capable supervision engineers, recommended by the domestic registered consultants, to the E&M
works of the FKE and LTE. Similarly, the project Owner authority assigned qualified professional
engineers to the supervision of contracts for expressway annex area works approved by the Government
and the Bank.
GPHAB established a special EO for the implementation of the RIP and RSPP. Considering that
RIP sub-projects were spread over a province-wide area, each sub-project established at city level a
supervision team and staffed its team leader with a concurrent-posted Engineer's representative assigned by
the EO. For minor sub-projects, only a supervision engineer was directly responsible for the supervision of
works. Through the use of this supervision system, the contractual management and quality, progress and
cost control of the contracted works under the RIP and RSPP were found to be effective.
Assessment of the work by the Contractors
All the contractors, successfully selected through strict prequalifications and open competitive
bidding procedures, generally followed the contracting terms and conditions, took initiative actions to
deliver quality works, progress construction, and set up a cost guarantee system; they paid attention to set
up their prestige and image. Particularly, the FIDIC's terms and conditions attach the same level of
imnportance to the obligations and responsibilities of the Employer, Engineer and Contractor. The
Contractors were encouraged to assume and enhance the risk management of construction works, according
to their previous construction experience, site real situation, existing resources and market prices, and
achieved their new experience.
9.4 Conclusions
Project benefits
The expressway construction project component comprises two key highway projects in
Guangdong. FKE is an extension of the existing Guangzhou-Foshan Expressway, passing through Nanhai,
Shunde and Heshan cities. LTE is the west section of the Shenzhen-Shantou coastal expressway, linking
two Special Economic Zones in Shenzhen and Shantou. Both FKE and LTE are part of the
Tongjiang-Sanya National Expressway and this expressway corridors are going through an extremely rapid
economic development. The completion of both expressways has a promoting and pilot role in the
formation of the future key frame of national and Guangdong provincial expressways. It helped to improve
the investment climate and to mitigate the traffic congestion along the exit passage in west Guangdong and
the Guangzhou-Shantou highway in east Guangdong, as well as to promote the region economic and social
development in the Pearl Delta, west and east Guangdong, and even in the whole province. The project
benefits mainly include: (a) average VOC savings due to improved standards and a shorter distance; (b)
time savings through relieved congestion on existing roads; and (c) lower accident rates and costs due to the
betterment of traffic safety facilities.
Moreover, the completion of the RIP and RSPP brought major improvements to the existing
highway network structure. Similarly, the project benefits include VOC and time savings, as well as
benefits from traffic generated by the upgrading and rehabilitation of roads icluded in sub-projects. Many
identified safety blackspots were improved. These sub-projects have benefited millions of people spread
over 10 cities, 24 mountainous area counties (regions) and 72 townships in Guangdong; they played an
important role in improving the economics of mountainous areas.
- 19-



Experience and lessons
With common efforts by all participants involved. the completed Guangdong Provincial Highway
Project has achieved remarkable results. They encompass the emergence of numerous well-trained qualified
managing and technical personnel, through project practice, learning, digesting and introduction of updated
experience in intemational modem highway construction and management. It is a major contribution to the
future development of the expressway and highway system in Guangdong. The following experience and
lessons are proposed as reference for the preparation, launching and implementation of similar projects:
*   Early preparation works on the projects should be conducted in a more in-depth manner. The cost
estimates from both the engineering feasibility study and the preliminary design need to be adequate
enough and avoid missing major works items; that resulted in major variations and cost increases as
well as caused construction funds to go beyond control.
*   Ensuring a better construction climate for project construction and improving a closer and more
cooperative relationship with local govemments and authorities along the expressway and highway
corridors would be a reliable guarantee for the successful implementation of the project and the
completion of land acquisition and resettlement tasks.
*  The application of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and FIDIC's terms and conditions need to be in
line with the concrete situations of the project Owner's country and province as well as with the project
reality. Further improvement may be made, such as enhancing prequalifications, implementing suitable
bid evaluation methods, rationalizing bid package, excluding lowest bid price bid, strengthening
performance supervision, etc.
- The Bank-financed highway project benefited from equitable interest rate, longer repayment and grace
periods, as well as other preferential conditions. However, the procurernent time was generally longer
than forecasted due to more procedural management links and other circumstances. This would
increase the so-called additional hidden costs disbursed for the project. The hidden costs problem has
raised the project Owner's concem. But, it is a complicated problem and requires objective analysis by
project participants in order to solve or improve it, through a close coordination aiming at ensuring that
project benefits are achieved as forecasted at appraisal.
Reference documents:
1. "Staff Appraisal Report", (October 1992), Transport Operations Division, Country Department n,
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the World Bank.
2. "Quarterly Report No. 28" (Final), (July 2000), Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company, Guangdong
Provincial Admninistration Highway Bureau, the World Bank Finance Office, GPCD.
3. ""Completion Report on Civil Construction of the FKE and LTE", (January 1997), GPFC, EO of the
FKE and LTE.
4. "Completion Report on E&M Works of the FKE", (March 2000), Foshan-Kaiping Expressway
Preparation Office, GPFC
5. "Completion Report on E&M Works of the LTF', (March 2000), Shenzhen-Shantou Expressway
Preparation Office, GPFC
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 20 -



N/A
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:  _             _.   _,_,,_,_._._.
In~IcatrIMtri             Prcte  inlast PR                            c/ts   smt
Not identified in detail at appraisal
Output Indicators:
L IndIcatortrI                            r ojeted in last PSR                X    tit/1a7.tEsti ,iit         .
Not identified in detail at appraisal
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)                         ___
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Foshan-Kaiping Highway                             227.52          330.47            145
Longgang-Tanxi Highway                             244.03          425.62            174
Road Improvement Program                            96.74          119.07            123
Road Safety Pilot Program                            0.40            0.57            143
Supervision of Construction                         11.44           18.66            163
Equipment                                            13.78          14.04            102
Staff Training/Technical Assistance                  2.18            2.82            129
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                   49.46           89.23            180
Total Baseline Cost                                645.55         1000.48
Physical Contingencies                             58.01
Price Contingencies                                91.56           37.96            42
Total Project Costs            795.12        1038.44
Total Financing Required            795.12         1038.44
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
l                            ~~~~~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICa          NCB         Other          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    511.09        119.58        66.48         0.00        697.15
(152.32)     (36.04)       (20.08)       (0.00)      (208.44)
2. Goods                     25.40         0.00         5.96          0.00         31.36
(19.83)      (0.00)        (5.48)        (0.00)      (25.31)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         17.16         0.00         17.16
(0.00)       (0.00)        (6.25)       (0.00)       (6.25)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         49.46        49.46
Land Acquisition            (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     536.49        119.58       89.60         49.46       795.13
__________ (172.15)  (36.04)  (31.81)    (0.00)      (240.00)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        606.06         225.85         72.44           0.00         904.35
(190.97)       (10.80)        (22.84)         (0.00)       (224.61)
2. Goods                        13.57           0.00           9.81           0.00          23.38.
(6.04)        (0.00)         (4.37)         (0.00)        (10.41)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          21.48           0.00          21.48
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.98)         (0.00)        (4.98)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          89.23          89.23
Land Acquisition                (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        619.63         225.85         103.73         89.23         1038.44
(197.01)       (10.80)        (32.19)         (0.00)       (240.00
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C_mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
_______________    100glk   i ____    6CoP0  .     I1UI      GLfiS  o ......  CoP.    3aufiik Got   CP
Major Highway Civil      144.41    314.12               178.28    550.78              123.5  175.3
Works
E & M works               9.11      3.91                 9.20      17.82              101.0  455.8
RIP Civil Works          30.68      66.07               36.93      82.14              120.4  124.3
Road Safety Civil Works   0.15      0.25                 0.18       0.38              120.0  152.0
Major Highway             3.65      6.64                 3.34      13.89               91.5  209.2
Supervision
RIP Supervision           0.00      1.15                            1.43               0.0   124.3
Equipment                12.72      1.06                 10.41      3.63               81.8  342.5
Training and TA           1.64      0.54                 1.64       1.18              100.0  218.5
Contingencies            37.64      11.92                          37.96               0.0   318.5
Land and Resettlement     0.00      49.46                          89.23               0.0   180.4
-24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Preface
1.    The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:
(a) construction of the 80 km Foshan - Kaiping Highway (FKE) and the 146 km Longgang -
Tanxi Highway (LTE); and
(b) a Road Improvement Program (RIP) for the upgrading and rehabilitation of national and
provincial highways in the province.
2.     The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed in the SAR
and is summarized as follows:
(a) capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2000 prices and are
included in the cost streams;
(b) the benefit streams, also in December 2000 prices, consist of savings in vehicle operating
costs, ship operation costs, reduced traffic congestion on existing routes, and enhanced road
safety; and
(c) a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all
components was from 1992 to 2000, depending on the construction phases.
3.     During the project's preparation, it was understood that the selection of road sections to be
improved under the RIP (from Phase II to Phase V) would be finalized during the project implementation.
The economic analyses for these components are included in the ICR.
4.      This Attachment is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluations of FKE and LTE;
Part II is the econornic evaluations of the 41 national and provincial roads and bridges under the RIP; Part
III is the overall economic evaluation of the project, including probabilistic risk analysis, and; Part IV is
the financial evaluation of the project.
PART 1: FOSHAN - KAIPING HIGHWAY AND LONGGANG - TANXI HIGHWAY
5.     As in the SAR, the highways were divided into a total of five sections for economic evaluation.
Length of the  Length of the New
Old Road (kIn)   Highway (km)
FKE:  Section 1: Foshan - Heshan           40.5             40.0
Section 2: Heshan - Shuikou (Kaiping)  54.6          40.0
Subtotal                            95.1             80.0
LTE:  Section 1: Longgang - Baiyun         72.0             54.6
Section2: Baiyun-Hounman            55.0             41.4
Section 3: Houman- Tanxi            63.0             50.6
Subtotal                           190.0            146.6
- 25 -



Highway Corridor Traffic
6.      The opening year of the highway was in 1997. The highway corridor traffic in 1997 and its
distribution between the old and the new highways are presented in the following table, indicating SAR
forecast and actual traffic census data.
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY FOR 1997
The Old Road   The New Hishwav      Total Corridor     Diversion
AADT   PCU       AADT   PCU         AADT      PCU       Factor (DF)
(1)     (2)      (3)     (4)     (5)=(1+3) (6)=(2+4)   (7)=(4)/(6)
SAR
Foshau- Kaiping Highway
l. Foshan- Heshan          --    18,900      --    12.700       -      31,600      40.2%
2. Heshan- Shuikou (Kaiping)   --    6,300   --    8,600        --      14,900      57.7%
Longgang- Tanxi Highway
1. Longgang- Baiyun        --    11,200      --    10.100       --     21,300      47.4%
2. Baiyun- Houmen           --    11,800     --    7,300        --     19,100       38.2%
3. Houman- Tanxi            --    12.300     --    6,500        --      18,800      34.6%
ICR
Foshan- Kaiping Highway
1. Foshan- Heshan        53,960  63,503   20,302  25,427      74,262   88,930      28.6%
2. Heshan- Shuikou (Kaiping)   4,184   5,797    9,278   11,756  13,462    17,553    67.0%
Longgang- Tanxi Highway
1.Longgang-Baiyun         8,232   12,603    10,453  13,544    18,685   26,147      51.8%
2. Baiyun- Houmen         8,252   12,452    10,025  13,056    18,277   25,508       51.2%
3.Houman-Tanxi            5,686   8,455    7,197   9,207      12,883    17,662      52.1%
Ratios (ICR/SAR)
Foshan- Kaiping Highway
1.Foshan-Heshan            --   236.0%      --   100.2%         --     181.4%        --
2. Heshan- Shuikou (Kaiping)   --    -8.0%   --    36.7%         -       17.8%       --
Longgang- Tanxi Highway
1. Longgang- Baiyun        --    12.5%       --    34.1%        --     22.8%         --
2. Baiyun- Houmen           --    5.5%       --    78.8%        --      33.5%         --
3.Houman-Tanxi             --   -31.3%       --    41.6%        --     -6.1%          --
Sources: GPCD and the Bank staff.
7.      As shown above, the 1997 total traffic in the highway corridor (i.e., the sum of traffic on the
parallel sections of the existing arterial road and on the new highway) on the two sections of FK corridor
was higher than the SAR's forecast, and exceeded it by between 17.8% and 18 1%. In the LT corridor, the
actual traffic in the first two sections exceeded the forecasts by 23 and 34 percent. However, in the third
section, it was 6% less than forecasted. The traffic distribution in the corridor (i.e. between the existing
arterial road and the new highway), shows that, except for section 1 of FKE, in the first opening year
traffic diversion to the new road was higher than projected in the SAR.
8.      Except for section 2 of FKE, the diversion factor (DF) has been increasing for all the five sections
of the two highways over the three years of operation (1997 to 1999). The latest records show that the DF
ratio for FKE has increased from about 29 - 67 percent to 31- 60 percent. For LTE, it has increased from
about 52 percent to around 65 percent. The trend on DF ratio indicates that more and more road users in
these highway corridors choose the new highways as their preferred route.
- 26 -



Traffic Projection
9.       The actual records confirm that the expected buildup of traffic on a new highway, particularly
when it operates as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years, then the diversion of traffic accelerates.
Therefore, the long term traffic growth rates on the two new highways are estimated to be slightly higher
than the SAR's forecast. The traffic projections by section are summarized as follows:
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW HIGHWAY BY SECTIONS
Foshan- Kaini P- Hinhwav              Lonm   mn- Tanxi Hie  wav
1. Foshan-     2. Heshan-    1. Longgang-    2. Baiyun-     3. Houman-
Heshan         Shuikou         Baiyun        Houmen           Tanxi
(Kaiping)                                 I
Total|          Total |        Total          Total          Total
AADTI PCU   AADT I PCU   AADT   PCU   AADT   PCU  AADTI PCU
SAR
1997      --  12,700       --  8,600      -- 10,100      --  7,300      --   6,500
1998      --  13,450       --  9,140      -- 10,714      --  7,760      --   6,902
1999      --  14,245       --  9,714      -- 11,366      --  8,249      --   7,328
2000      --  15,086       -- 10,324      -- 12,058      --  8,768      --   7,781
2005      --  20,100       -- 14,000      -- 16,200       - 11,900      --  10,500
2007      --  22,059       -- 15,352      -- 17,753      -- 13,026      --  11,507
2015      --  32,000       -- 22,200      -- 25,600      -- 18,700      --  16,600
2017      --  35,119       -- 24,344      -- 28,053      -- 20,469      --  18.192
Average growth p.a.
1999-2017      -    5.1%       --  5.2%        -   5.1%       --  5.2%            5.2%
ICR
1997  20,302  25,427   9,278 11,756  10,453 13,544  10,025 13,056  7,197   9,207
1998  22,502  28,182  10,285 13,033  12,947 16,642  12,879 16,922  9,608  12,520
1999  25,875  32,406  11,827 14,986  13,693 17,415  13,382 17,267  9,803   12,638
2000  29,731  37,236  13,588 17,218  14,654 18,704  14,477 18,794 10,589  13,728
2005  43,181  53,468  18,756 23,502  20,378 26,077  21,191 27,592 16,226  21,097
2007  50,133  61,794  21,337 26,617  23,251 29,784  24,680 32,173 19,246  25,053
2015  84,063 102,968  33,031 40,920  35,239 45,334  40,654 53,254 34,145  44,660
2017  95,659 116,988  36,844 45,565  39,100 50,354  46,056 60,404 39,407  51,604
Average growth p.a.
1999-2017   7.5%    7.4%    6.5%   6.4%    6.0%   6.1%    7.1%   7.2%   8.0%    8.1%
Sources: GPCD and the Bank staff.
10.    From  1997 - 1999, actual traffic data have been used. For subsequent years, the following growth
rates have been assumed:
(a) the normal traffic growth forecast of the new highway is estimated to be within a range of 4.5
percent to 8.5 percent between 2000 - 2007, depending on the type of vehicles and sections of
the two roads. Between 2007 - 2017, the growth rate is assumed to be in the range of 3.0
percent to 7.5 percent; and
(b) it is assumed that there is no generated traffic.
These estimates are more conservative than the hypothesis retained by GPFC in a report based on
results from traffic forecasts originally prepared by Scott Wilson Ltd. (Hong Kong) and submitted
to the Bank. As an example, in this ILICR a 7.5% pa traffic growth is assumed during the
2000-2005 period, whereas GPFC's report retains an average of 8% pa.
- 27 -



Economic Costs
11.    Financial construction costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for each of
the input items. The overall economic cost of the project, at constant December 2000 prices, is 100.5
percent higher than the SAR estimates.
Hiihwav Economic Cost Comparison (million Yuan)
SAR                ICR       ICR] SAR
(Dec. 1991)  (Dec. 2000)  (Dec. 2000)    (in %)
FKH:   1. Foshan- Heshan               1,399.00     1,540.57    2,994.08       94.3
2. Heshan- Shuikou (Kaiping)    464.00       510.95      819.76        60.4
Subtotal             1,863.00     2,051.52    3.813.84        85.9
LTH:   1. Longgang- Baiyun              600.00       664.07     1,703.91       184.0
2. Baiyun- Homan                606.00       670.71     1,291.24      113.1
3. Homan- Tanxi                 730.00       807.96     1,599.46      119.1
Subtotal             1,936.00     2.142.74     4,594.61      114.4
Total              3,799.00     4,194.26     8,468.45      100.5
Sources: GPCD and the Bank staff.
Economic Benefits
12.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from  (a) Vehicle Operating Costs savings
(summarized below), (b) time savings from relieved congestion on the existing roads, and (c) lower accident
costs. The benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion were quantified. The value of passenger
time savings was estimated at Y 1.0 per passenger-hour, based on an updated value from a recent report on
feasibility study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK, Australia Feasibility Study methodology
Report, March 1996). The same source was used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of road.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per km, Dec. 2000 prices)
---Good-           -  ---Fair-----             - ---Poor----
Flat   Hill  Mount.  Flat    Hill   Mount.  Flat        Hill   Mount.
Car            0.598  0.624  0.644  0.684   0.711   0.731    0.885     0.912    0.932
Medium bus     1.201   1.395  1.563  1.480   1.695    1.870   1.951    2.139    2.314
Large bus      2.601  3.172  3.680  3.194   3.847   4.383   3.870    4.499    5.035
Smalltruck     1.069  1.336   1.536  1.261   1.541    1.751    1.541    1.786    2.031
Medium truck    1.355  1.670   1.985  1.543   1.897   2.219    1.864    2.218    2.572
Largetruck     1.950  2.389  2.828  2.206   2.681    3.100   2.625     3.100    3.547
Tractor/trailer   2.941  3.879  4.690  3.334   4.339   5.186   3.969    4.922    5.795
Sources: GPCD and the Bank staff.
- 28 -



Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km. Dec. 2000 prices)
Medium   Large   Small Medium  Large  Trailer/
Car      Bus      Bus   Truck   truck  Truck Container
The New ExDresswav
Fuel                       253       338      672     460     563    609       672
Tires                       21        35      130      50     130    480      1,073
Maintenance                223       311     638      466     529    562       646
Crew                         10       22      25       22      22      22       25
Depreciation                41       120     279       71     111    277       525
Subtotal             548      826     1,744   1.069   1.355   1.950    2,941
Time value of passengers    50       375      857
Total                    598      1,.201    2.601   1,069   1355   1,950    2.941
The Existine Road
Fuel                       276       383     788      575     653    693       798
Tires                       25        40      149      55     140    540      1,188
Maintenance                248       345     709      518     588    624       718
Crew                         15       34       38      34      38      41       47
Depreciation                45       133     310       79      124    308      583
Subtotal            609       935    1g94        1,261   1.543   2,206    3.334
Time value of passengers    75       545    1,200
Total                    684      1.480    3.194   1.261   1.543   2,206    3,334
Sources: GPCD and the Bank staff.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
13.    The economic Internal Rate of the Return (EIRR) on the two highways is estimated to be about 15
percent, which is much lower than the 25 percent estimated in the SAR. The lower EIRR is primarily the
result of the 100 percent project cost overruns. Total cost and benefit streams, EIRR and Net Present
Value (NPV) for FKE and LTE are presented as follows.
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%. Y million) Summary
The SAR                               The ICR
FKH          LTH          Total         FKH        LTH         Total
EIRR        21.4          27.8        25.1           14.7       14.8        14.8
NPV      1,881.3/ 1   3,840.9/ 1     5.722.2        971.1      1.061.8    2,032.9
/_1: NPV has been updated to 2000 prices to take into account foreign and domestic inflation.
14.    Besides the basic traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: e.g., a lower traffic growth projection (25 percent lower than the basic traffic) and a higher
traffic growth projection (25 percent higher than the basic traffic growth). The traffic growth and annual
average growth rate under these two scenarios are as follows:
- 29 -



THE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS (AADT)
FKE                           LTE
Section 1   Section 2   Section 1   Section 2   Section 3
The Low Traffic Proiection:
1999            25,78511,82     7        13,693     13,382      9,803
2007             42,53818     ,074        19,701     20,946     16,357
2017             64,03724,56    5        26,059      30,821    26,466
Average growth per year
1999-2017           5.2%      4.1%          3.6%       4.7%       5.7%
The Hieh Traffic Projection:
1999             25,875     11,827        13,693    13,382      9,803
2007             58,863    25,092         27,339     28,971     22,559
2017            141,579    54,742         58,126     68,189     58,134
Average growth per year
1999-2017          9.9%       8.9%          8.4%       9.5%       10.4%
15.    The overall EIRR and NPV for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the
following table. It shows that even with the lower traffic projection, the overall EIRR would be 12.8
percent.
The high traffic growth scenario   The low traffic growth scenario
Best estimate of EIRR          16.3%                         12.8%
NPV (12%, Y million)           3,659.2                       514.4
Sensitivity Analysis
16.    The EIRRs summarized below show the effects of possible changes in assumptions made in the
evaluation. Since the costs of operation and maintenance of FKE and LTE are a relatively smnall portion of
the investment, any variation in these costs would have a minimnum discernible impact on the EIRR. The
impact of changes in traffic volumes was studied under the two traffic growth scenarios discussed in paras.
14 and 15 above. The results of the sensitivity tests show that the reduction in VOC savings by 25 percent
has the greatest impact while the reduction in road congestion has the least impact on the EIRR.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %)   NPV(12%, Y million)
VOC savings reduced by 25%                        12.0                (0.3)
Passenger time savings reduced to zero            12.5               334.2
Congestion savings reduced to zero                14.4              1,741.2
Total benefits reduced by 20%                     12.4                287.1
PART II: ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (RIP)
Background and Traffic
17.    In the SAR, the Road Improvement Program (RIP) was designed to be implemented in three parts,
of which the first one comprised a total of 24 components (total 374.8 kmn). During implementation, the
RIP components were changed to 41 components into three packages (total 556.4 km). The main purpose
of the RIP was to repave existing roads or bridges in Guangdong province.
- 30 -



18.    The first package (1993) covered the rehabilitation of nine roads and two bridges. The second
package consisted of two groups. Group 1 (1994) covered the rehabilitation of twelve roads and Group 2
(1995-1997) covered the rehabilitation of ten roads and two bridges. The third package (1996-1997)
covered the rehabilitation of six roads. Since all the components under RIP are located in the same
province, the economic development and traffic pattems are quite similar for each road. Based on the
actual traffic growth since project appraisal, the following assumptions have been made in economic
analyses regarding future traffic growth for most of the roads: 3.5. percent per year for motor vehicles and
2.5 percent for tractors during 1998-2000, and 1 percent during the next ten years. By comparison, the
projection on SAR's vehicle traffic growth was 8.0 per year between 1996-2000, reduced to 5 percent per
year thereafter. The tractor traffic was assumed to grow at 2 percent until 2000 and grow no further
thereafter.
Economic Costs
19.    Financial construction costs have been converted to economic costs. Just as for FKE and LTE, All
input items have been evaluated to constant December, 2000 economic costs. Given the overall effect of
shadow-pricing the financial cost of the sub-components, the economic cost is 12.1 percent higher than the
financial cost.
20.    Due to the major changes in project components (par. 17), the total actual economic cost of RIP in
December 2000 constant prices is about 2.76 times higher than the SAR's estimate.
RIP PROJECT COST COMPARISON (YUAN MILLION)
Estimate (Yuan million)Ac      tual (Yuan million)
December 1991 pnices  Dec. 2000  Financial Dec. 2000     (B)/(A)
Financial  Economic  Economic (A)  (Current)  Economic (B)   (in %)
Total    229.8     265.5      293.1 /-a    988.30     1,102.8     +276.2
/_a: Economic cost (1991 constant prices), has been updated to 2000 constant prices to take into
account foreign and domestic inflation.
Economic Benefits
21.    The economic analysis applies the methodology used in the SAR, i.e it is based primarily on
benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings due to shorter distances (if applicable), (b) VOC savings due to
normal traffic, and (c) benefits from generated traffic.
22.    As a result of the project, the classifications of all 41 sub-components (roads, bridges and tunnels)
were upgraded. The better pavements reduces VOC and yields the major portion of the project benefits.
Generated traffic was assumed to be 5 percent of the normal traffic ( versus 10% assumed in the SAR). In
addition, the better paved roads or bridges increase vehicle speed and reduce congestion. These benefits
have been qualified also as part of operating cost savings.
Economic Evaluation
23.    The EIRRs, for the three packages, range from 28.5 percent to 61.2 percent. The overall EIRR for
the RIP is 42.3 percent. The detailed summary of these results is as follows:
- 31 -



EIRR AND NPV OF THE RIP
EIRR (in %)            NPV (12%. Yuan million)
The SAR       The ICR        The SAR         The ICR
The First Package            --           55.0            --             614.6
The Second Package
Group I                     --          28.5            --             496.5
Group 2                     --          37.5            --             796.9
The Third Package            --           61.2            --            1,544.1
Total RIP            55.0          42.3         940.8 / a       2.793.1
/La: NPV was Y 871.9 million at 1991 prices and updated to 2000 prices to take into account foreign and
domestic inflation.
PART HII: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
24.    The overall EIRR of the project (including FKE, LTE and RIP) is 17.7 percent and the NPV is
about 4.5 billion Yuan. In the SAR, the overall EIRR of the project was 30 percent and the NPV about 6.7
billion Yuan.
The SAR                  The ICR
EIRR      NPV /_a         EIRR     NPV/_a
Foshan - Shuikou (Kaiping) Highway  21.4%     1,881.7 /_b     14.7%      971.1
Longgang - Tanxi Highway           27.8%      3,840.8 Lb      14.8%     1,061.8
Total Highways             25.1       5,722.5       14.8%      2.032.9
Road Improvement Program           55.0%        962.6 Lb      42.3%     2,790.1
Total Project            30.0%      6.685.1        17.7%     4.524.0
/_a: Million Yuan, discount rate 12%.
/_b: NPV was urdated to 2000 prices to take into account foreign and domestic inflation.
The Project Risks
25.    Although the overall EIRR of the project is still good and most sub-components under RIP also
show very robust results, the EIRRs for the two major highways are below the SAR estimates due to the
large amount of cost overruns (para. 11). It is suggested that Guangdong should in the future better
estimate and control construction costs.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of FKE and LTE
26.    To determiine the degree of project uncertainty, a probabilistic risk analysis was carried out by
using Monte Carlo techniques. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertain factor is allowed to vary at
random (between set lirnits) and all uncertain factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk
analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variables, and on
the likelihood of each value within this range.
27.    For the RIP component, its high EIRR and low capital investment (the sum of capital cost for 41
- 32 -



roads and bridges under RIP constitute only about 11.3 percent of the total project capital investment),
reveal that there is a low risk of uncertainty in the re-estimated EIRR. The probabilistic risk analysis for
the project is focused on the construction of the two highways (FKE and LTE). The factors with the most
uncertainty associated with the economic evaluation of FKE and LTE have been identified as follows: (a)
traffic growth rate, (b) traffic diversion to the new highways, and (c) value of vehicle operating costs. The
results of the probabilistic risk analysis for the five sections of the two highways show that the EIRR for
the most likely scenario is 14.5 %. In the worst case scenario of the analysis the EIRR is 10.5% and
18.3% in the best case scenario. The standard error of the mean is 0.2 %. The results of Monte Carlo test
and probabilistic analyses are surmmarized as follows:
Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Range of EIRR   Most likely EIRR    Standard error of the mean
FKH:
1. Foshan-Heshan          7.2%-15.8%       11.7%                0.3%
2. Heshan - Shuikou (Kaiping)   20.1% - 26.8%  23.5%            0.2%
Subtotal         10.8% - 18.5%     14.8%                0.3%
LTH:
1. Longgang- Baiyun      11.4% - 18.9%     15.3%                0.2%
2. Baiyun-Houman         12.2%- 19.7%       16.1%               0.2%
3. Houman-Tanxi            8.3% - 16.1%     12.4%               0.3%
Subtotal         10.6%-18.2%       14.6%                0.2%
Total           10.5% - 18.3%     14.5%                0.2%
PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Preface
28.     The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two sections. Section 1 regards the
revenue earning entity; and Section II is for the non-revenue eaming entity. FKE and LTE are toll roads
and the only two roads in the project which generates revenues (they account for 88 percent of total project
cost); there is no revenue from the 41 sub components of the RIP. The financial cost of capital is based on
the weighted average cost of the various sources of funds: a) for FKE, the weighted average is 5.5% (23%
of the funding comes from the world Bank at a cost of 7% and 77% are local financing costing 5%/O), b) for
LTE, the weighted average is 6.0% (20% from the Bank at 7%, 20% from local banks at 7.2% and the
rest at 5%). There was no financial evaluation of the project carried out in the SAR.
Section I: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF FKE AND LTE
The Highway Companies and the Toils
29.    In December 1996, GPCD set up FKE and LTE as two highway operating companies. These
companies are responsible for the day to day management, the operation, maintenance, and development of
the highways. They also bear all financial obligations including the repayment of the debts. The main
financial revenue of the companies is the toll income from the road users, but the toll charges are strictly
controlled by the government. Therefore, the toll charges have been assuned to increase once every three
years (10 percent or average 3.2 percent p.a.), which is lower than the estimated 5 percent domestic general
price escalation. This is also a more conservative assumption than GPFC forecasts of a 27.6% increase
every 5 years (5% pa).
Financial forecast
- 33 -



30.     Revenue: The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size and distance traveled. The current toll
charges are as follows:
Toil CharLes L/a
Small  Medium   Large  Small  Medium   Large  Tractor
car    bus    bus  truck   truck   truck  - trailer
Yuan! veh-km    0.450   0.900   1.462  0.450   0.900   1.462   2.138
/La: Motorcycle and extra large truck ( > 20 ton) are Y 0.225 and Y 2.138, respectively.
31.    Costs: The operating revenue and cost forecasts (the income statement ) are calculated on the
bases of the current practice of the toll road. For operating revenue with associated traffic and costs,
please see page 1 of 3, Table 1 and Table 2. For annual capital investment and cash flow statement, please
see page 2 of 3, Table 1 and Table 2. The balance sheet statement is presented in page 3 of 3 in Table 1
and Table 2. The detail financial assumptions, please see Table 3.
32.    Profitabilitv: As a consequence of our more conservative estimates of traffic growth and toll
increases in the future, the revenue estimated in 2005 by GPFC is about 1/3 higher than the figure retained
in this ILICR, and the net cash flow is about 25% higher this same year ($ 60 million vs $ 48 million).
33.   Under these assumptions it is expected that LTE would not be able until 2002 to generate enough
cash flow to cover its operating expenses and the repayment of the loan. However this situation is expected
to improve from 2002 for FKE and 2003 for LTE, and both companies would have enough cash reserves to
cover the losses from the early years' operations. Since GPCD has converted almost all construction costs
as a loan to the FKE company, the equity of the FKE company is relatively low compared with its debt.
The high debt! equity ratio also dilutes the financial leverage of the company, and based on the current
repayment schedule of the loan it would not recover before 2008. For the LTE company, a large amount of
long term debts also caused the high debt! equity ratio in 1997 and 1998. In 1999, GPCD converted about
Y 1.4 billion domestic loan (or 47% of total long term debts) to equity. As a result, the financial leverage
of the company has turned to a very health condition since 1999.
34.    Financial Rate of Return. The results of the financial evaluation shows that the FIRR on equity
would be 5.6 percent for FKE and 3.4 percent for LTE. The FIRR for the entire project investment is
expected to be 5.6 percent for FKE and 4.4 percent for LTE.
35.    Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis. The three most uncertain factors which may affect the
financial evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) growth of toll rates, and (c) increase in
operating costs. The result of a financial probabilistic analysis reveals that (a) the most likely FIRR on
equity would be 5.6 percent for FKE and 3.4 percent for LTE, (b) the most likely FIRR on total project
investment would be 5.6 percent for FKE and 4.4 percent for LTE. The details for FRR and NPV in the
worst and best cases are summarized as follows:
- 34 -



Summary of Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis
On Equity                     Total Project
Most  Std.                   Most   Std.
Range of FIRR   Likely  EIRR   Range of FIRR  Likely   EIRR
& NPV      FIRR   of The    & NPV        FIRR &   of fte
& NPV  Mean                   NPV     Mean
FKE:  FIRR (in 0%)          4.3 - 6.5    5.6   0.1%        4.7 - 6.3    5.6    0%
NPV (5.5%, Y million)   -301.2 - 303.9   16.1   17.9  -275.2 - 329.9   42.2    17.9
LTE:  FIRR(in%)             109-4.9      3.4   0.1%        3.1-5.7      4.4    0.1%
NPV (6.0%, Y million)  -1,140.3 - -366.3  -782.6  21.8  -904.4- -130.4  -546.7   21.8
Section II: THE FINANCIAL IMPLICATION OF RIP FOR GPCD BUDGET
36.    This section analyses the impact of this program on the overall GPCD road budget, to ascertain
that it will have no adverse effect on the construction and maintenance of the provincial road network.
37.    GPCD has provided its financial plan of overall revenues and expenditures for the Ninth Five Year
Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000) and the 10th FYP (2001 - 2005). Based on the provincial highway
development plan, GPCD has acquired sufficient funds to cover new roads construction and the
maintenance of its existing road network. In addition, the higher self-financing ratio (road maintenance fee
and provincial and local government authorities) of GPCD clearly ensures the future maintenance of RIP.
In 1999, the latest actual data, revealed that about 74 percent of GPCD's total revenue are generated within
the province. Detailed information on sources of funds and expenditures for 1996 - 2005 are shown in
Table 4 of this Attachment.
38.    Given the increases in the length of the provincial road network every year, GPCD also reserved
the additional resources needed for the maintenance of the existing road networks and the preservation of
the quality of road service. During the 9th FYP and the 10th FYP, despite the continuous increases in road
network, the average unit road maintenance expenditures were constant at about 32,000 Yuan/Ian.
39.    The financial risks of a lack of the revenues needed to support the RIP road maintenance would be
minimal, as the expenditures on these activities constitute only a small fraction of GPCD flow of funds.
Based on GPCD plan, the maintenance expenditures on RIP are less than 0.6 percent of the overall road
maintenance expenditures in the province during the 9th and 10th FYP. These low financing ratios indicate
that the project presents modest financial risk regarding the availability of counterpart funds for the future
maintenance of the project components. Figures are summarized as follows:
GPCD: Maintenance Expenditures (million Yuan)
9 FYP    IOUIFYP
Total RIP maintenance (a)                0.84        0.92
Total GPCD Maintenance Expenditures (b)  153.00     163.00
Ratios (a)/(b)                           0.5%       0.6%
- 35 -



Table 1: Guangdong: Foshan - Kaiping Highway Project
Income Statement - The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
Page I of3
1997    1998      1999      2000     2001     2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Traffic (million Veh.-km)        431.86   478.70    550.45   632.46   679.15   729.35  783.35  841.43  903.89  971.11
Operating Revenue                227.64   260.16    288.20   320.00        346.37   371.97  399.51  471.20  506.18  543.82
Operating Costs:
WorldngCosts/_l                31.30    39.34      43.15    47.47    83.93    55.18   59.27   69.91   75.10  260.16
Depreciation                   21.14    37.52      55.37   108.57   109.96   110.10  110.25  110.42  110.60  110.79
Subtotal                   52.44    76.86     98.52   156.04   193.89   165.28  169.52  180.33  185.70  370.95
OperatingTaxes                     1.36    14.31      15.87    17.60    19.05    20.46   21.97   25.92   27.84   29.91
Operating Profit                 173.84   168.99     173.81   146.36   133.43   186.23  208.02  264.95  292.64  142.96
Less: Financial expenses:
IBRD                        -        -         -        -         -        -       -        -       -       -
Domestic              270.62   243.83     160.58   138.46   144.00   137.00  130.00  122.00  115.00  124.49
Subtotal               270.62   243.83     160.58   138.46   144.00   137.00  130.00  122.00  115.00  124.49
Net Revenue                     (96.78)  (74.84)      13.23     7.90   (10.571    49.23   78.02  142.95  1.64   18.47
Add: Non operating income            -    12.95       5.34     7.75     8.14      8.55    8.98    9.43    9.90   10.40
Less: Nonoperatingexpenditure     2.04     4.08       0.16     0.10     0.10      0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10
Profit Before Taxes              (98.82)  (65.97)     18.41    15.55    (2.53)    57.68   86.90  152.28  187.44   28.77
Income tax                     -        -         -         -        -    19.03   28.68   50.25   61.86    9.50
Other payments                           -             -        -             -        -       -       -       -
NetProfitAfterTaxes              (98.82)  (65.97)     18.41    15.55    (2.53)    38.65   58.22  102.03  125.58   19.27
Operating ratio                    23.0     29.5       34.2     48.8     56.0      44.4    42.4    38.3    36.7    68.2
The expressway opened in Dec. 8, 1996.
Actual: 1997-1999.   Best estimates: 2000.       Forecast: 2001-2006
LI: Assumption was made 1.5 times for medium maintenance (every 5 year) and 3.0 times for major maintenance (every 10 years).
The details are in Table 3.
- 36 -



Table 1: Guangdong: Foshan - Kaiping Highway Project
Sources and Applications of Funds- The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
Page 2 of 3
1992  1993  1994  1995   1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006
Sources:
Net profits               -                             (98.82) (65.97) 18.41  15.55  (2.53)  38.65  58.22 102.03 125.58  19.27
Depreciation              -             -     -        - 21.14  37.52 55.37 108.57 109.96 110.10 110.25 110.42 110.60 110:79
State contribution     3.01  15.21  24.90  37.13   75.65         -        -         -      -      -      -      -      -
Provincial contribution   48.76 246.22 403.01 600.82 1,224.04
Borrowing:  IBRD      16.04  81.00 132.58 197.66  402.69
Ll                   -
Others                    -      -      -      -       -     - 22.02      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -
Total                67 8         342.43  5    1.702.38 (77.681 (6.43 73.78 112 107.43 148.75 16847 212.45 236.18 130.06
Am,lcadtlsns:
Capital expenditure   67.81 342.43 560.49 835.61 1,702.38    -      - 28.16   2.00   2.10   2.21   2.32   2.44   2.56   2.69
Other investment          -      -      -     -       -      -      - 39.88 146.76      -     -      -      -      -      -
Loan
repayments: IBRD
Domestic      -      -      -      -       -      -     -    -       - 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Others                                                                                  -      -      -     -      -      -
Change w/capital          -                                    (12.53) (9.54) (15.50) (0.59) (4.61) (4.96) (12.91) (6.30) (6.76)
Total                67.81 342.3 560.49 835.61 1.702.38       (12.53) 58.50 133.26 101.51  97.60  97.36  89.53  96.26  95.93
Net Funds Flow           (--                             77,68)   6.10 15.28 (2      5.92  51.15  71.11 122.92 139.92  34.13
Open balance                                             95.44  17.76 23.86  39.14  30.00  35.92  87.07 158.18 281.10 421.02
Closing balance                  -      -      -       -  17.76  23.86 39.14  30.00  35.92  87.07 158.18 281.10 421.02 455.16
DmS Cover                                                                             1.1   1.5   1.7   2.1   2.4    1.3
Actual: 1997-1999.
Estimates: 2000.
Forecast: 2001-2006
-37 -



Table 1: Guangdong: Foshan - Kaiping Highway Project
Balance Sheet- The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
Page 3 of 3
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005        2006
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                     2,887.50  3,386.43 3,509.26  3,540.64  3,542.74 3,544.95 3,547.27 3,549.71  3,552.27  3,554.96
Less:     Depreciation        21.14    58.66  114.01   222.58   332.54  442.64  552.89  663.31   773.91   884.70
Net fixed assets  2.866.36  3327.773.39525  3318.06  3.2   3102.31 2,994.382.886.40  2.778.36  2,670.2
Current Assets
Cash                         17.76    23.86   39.14    30.00    35.92   87.07  158.18  281.10   421.02   455.16
Inventory                     0.65        -       -        -        -       -       -       -        -        -
Account receivable           24.02    35.18    5.82     6.46     6.93    7.44    7.99    9.42    10.12    10.88
Subtotal            42.43    59.04   44.96    36.46    42.85   94.51  166.17  290.52   431.14   466.04
Other assets                 462.73   120.25   19.09    20.00    20.78   22.32   23.97   28.27    30.37    32.63
Total Assets      3,371.52  3,507.06 3,459.30  3,374.52  3,273.83 3,219.14 3,184.52 3,205.19  3,239.87  3,168.93
Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity         1,009.18   943.20  961.62   977.17   975.21 1,015.38 1,075.22 1,181.48  1,309.12  1,330.63
L/T loans: IBRD                   -        -       -        -        -       -       -       -        -        -
Domestic          2,313.11  2,485.86 2,445.33  2,328.86  2,229.00 2,129.00 2,029.00 1,929.00  1,829.00  1,729.00
Subtotal          2,313.11 2,485.86 2,445.33  2,328.86  2.229.00 2.129.00 2,029.00 1.929.00  1,829.0  1,729.00
Current Liabilities           48.85    71.89   52.07    68.21    69.27   74.39   79.90   94.24   101.24   108.76
Other Liabilities              0.38     6.11    0.28     0.28     0.35    0.37    0.40    0.47     0.51     0.54
Total Liabilities & Equity  3,371.52  3,507.06 3,459.30  3,374.52  3,273.83 3,219.14 3,184.52 3,205.19  3,239.87  3,168.93
Current ratio                        0.9      0.8    0.9       0.5      0.6     1.3    2.1    3.1        4.3      4.3
Debt:equityratio                  70/30   73/27  72/28   71/29   70/30  68/32  66/34  63/37   60/40   58/42
Actual: 1997-1999.
Best estimates: 2000.
Forecast: 2001-2006
- 38 -



Table 2: Guangdong: Longgang- Tanxi Highway Project
Income Statement - The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
Page 1 of 3
1997     1998     1999     2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Traffic (million Veh.-km)          492.57   629.87   655.90   706.12  760.74  819.62  883.09  951.60 1,025.45 1,105.27
Operating Revenue(a)               235.53   305.69   328.39   345.35  380.37  409.81  441.55  523.38  564.00  607.90
Operating Costs:
WorkingCosts LI                  31.14    38.06    30.59    38.61   63.81   46.67   51.00   55.55   60.33  196.03
Depreciation                    171.54   194.02   198.27   205.27  215.50  226.93  226.86  232.52  238.61  245.12
Subtotal(b)                202.68   232.08   228.86   243.88  279.31  273.60  277.86  288.07  298.94  441.15
OperatingTaxes                          -     5.30    24.00    18.99   20.92   22.54   24.29   28.79   31.02   33.43
Operating Profit                    32.85    68.31    75.53    82.48   80.14  113.67  139.40  206.52  234.04  133.32
Add: Profit transfer                3.16     4.13      0.41    4.00    4.41    4.75    5.12    6.07    6.54    7.05
Less: Management expenses          11.61    20.16    24.17    25.38   26.65   27.98   29.38   30.85   32.39   34.01
Financial expenses:
IBRD                     43.84    52.99    63.43    64.40   66.62   63.17   59.45   55.59   51.12   40.28
Domestic                112.72   141.04    34.24    22.82   24.20   19.08   12.10   10.00    2.57       -
Subtotal                156.56   194.03    97.67    87.22   90.82   82.25   71.55   65.59   53.69   40.28
NetRevenue                       (132.16) (141.75)  (45.90)   (26.12) (32.92)    8.19   43.59  116.15  154.50   66.08
Add: fnvestment income                 -        -        -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Other income                    -         -
Non operating income          0.01     0.03
Less: Non operating expenditure     0.11     0.03
ProfitBeforeTaxes                (132.26) (141.75)  (45.90)  (26.12) (3292)    8.19   43.59  116.15  154.50   66.08
Income tax                                                                          -       -               -
Other payments                                                                      -       -               -
NetProfitAfterTaxes              (132.26) (141.75)  (45.90)  (26.12! (32.92)    8.19   43.59  116.15  154.50   66.08
Operating ratio (b/a)                86.1     75.9     69.7     70.6    73.4    66.8    62.9    55.0   53.0    72.6
Actual: 1997-1999.   Estimates: 2000.  Forecast: 2001-2006
Il: Assumption was made 1.5 times for medium maintenance (every 5 year) and 3.0 times for major maintenance (every 10 years).
The details are in Table 3.
- 39 -



Table 2: Guangdong: Longgang- Tanxi Highway Project
Sources and Applications of Funds- The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
Pose 2 of 3
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
Sources:
Net proftts                                                  (132.26) (141.75) (45.90) (26.12) (32.92)    8.19   43.59  116.15  154.50   66.08-
Depreciaton                 -              .      -        -  171.54  194.02  198.27  205.27  215.50  226.93  226.86  232.52  238.61  245.12
State contribution       3.35   13.73   19.91  31.86    94.05      -       .               -           -       -           -       -      -
Provincial contribution  46.09  188.78  273.62 437.91  1.292.63    -               -       -               -           -           -      -
Borrowing:  IBRD        17.08   69.98  101.43 162.34   356.91          84.65   16.88   20.75
Local           -                              - 538.44  255.00        -  80.00
Others                     -       -       -      -        -  69.00   59.88        --                      -       -               -      -
Total                  6652  27224   394.96 632.11  L743.59  646.72  451Q   169.25  279.90  I182    235B2  2704   348.67  3 9 311    L
AmsnUcations:
Capital expenditure     66.52  272.49  394.96 632.11  1,743.59  520.73  342.51  125.75         43.11   67.89   47.53   49.90   52.40   55.02
Other investment            .
Loan
repayments: IBRD                -          -      -        -       -   15.29   32.33   34.88   37.57   40.48   43.63   47.00   50.65   68.17
Domestic        -      -       -      -        -   74.00   65.00  147.00  228.00   76.00   83.50  109.00   89.00    9.00
Others                                            ,             7.53                       -       -       -       -
Change wI capital           -       -      -      -        -       - (30.60) (71.56)  50.00  (13.06) (12.14) (13.06) (33.72) (16.73) (18.08)
Total                  66.52  222 94.%  62.1          159  60.2   322   233.52  22.    42                     172.15 11    22  1251
Not Funds F1l                                                  MA:   22M  (64,2  132.398)  218.6   55.2          =    1649    97.2 9  260
Open balance                -      -       -               -   11.16   55.62  115.22   50.95   17.97   56.93  112.32  195.67  392.16  689.95
Closing balance             -      -       .      -            55.62  115.22   50.95   17.97   56.93  112.32  195.67  392.16  689.95  896.04
D/S Cover                                                        0.5    0.7      0.8    0.7      1.6    1.9      1.8    2.6    6.6    4.6
Actual: 1997-1999.
Estimates: 2000.
Forecast: 2001-2006
-40 -



Table 2: Guangdong: Longgang- Tanxi Highway Project
Balance Sheet- The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
Page 3 of 3
1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003     2004    2005    2006
Asset,:
Fixed Assets
At cost                   3,430.96  3.967.14  4,105.39  4,105.39  4,148.50  4,216.39  4,263.92  4,313.82 4,366.22 4,421.24
Less:     Depreciation      171.55   369.77   563.80   769.07   984.57  1,211.50  1,438.36  1,670.88 1,909.49 2,154.61
Net fixed assets  3,259.41  3,597.37  3541.59  3,336.3  3.163.9  3.04.8  2,825.56  2,642.99 2.456.73 2,266.63
Work -in -process          265.56    16.77         -        -        -        -        -        -       -       -
Subtotal        3.52497  3,614.14  3,541.59  332 3 3163.93  3.004.89  2,825.5  2,642.9 2.456.73 2.266.63
Current Assets
Cash                        55.62   115.22    50.95    17.97    56.93   112.32   195.67   392.16  689.95  896.04
Inventory                   10.00    12.00    14.00    16.00    18.27    19.68    21.21    25.14   27.09   29.20
Account receivable         130.74   114.27    36.00    46.64    53.25    57.37    61.82    73.27   78.96   85.11
Subtotal          196.36   241.49   100.95    80.61   128.45   189.37   278.70   490.57  796.00 1,010.35
Other assets                         -        -        -        -         -        -             -      -        -
Total Assets    3,721.33  3,855.63  3,642.54  3,416.93  3,292.38  3,194.26  3,104.26  3,133.51 3,252.73 3,276.98
Liabilities & Eouitv
State funds-Equity          761.24   619.48  1,961.99  1.931.43  1,886.14  1,883.92  1,898.86  2,031.64 2,262.49 2,320.05
LUT loans: IBRD             997.35   982.06   949.73   914.85   811.52   773.95   733.47   689.84  642.84  592.19
Domestic        1,730.52  2,005.74   477.45   350.21   366.50   290.50   207.00    98.00    9.00      -
Subtotal        2727.87 2.987.80  1,427.18  1,265.06  ,178.02  1.064.45   940.47   787.84  651.84  592.19
Current Liabilities         232.22   248.35   243.64   206.28   228.22   245.89   264.93   314.03  338.40  364.74
Total Liabiliffes & Equity   3,721.33  3,855.63  3,642.54  3,416.93  3,292.38  3,194.26  3,104.26  3,133.51 3,252.73 3,276.98
Current ratIo                       0.8      1.0      OA       0.4      0.6      0.8      1.1       1.6    2.4     2.8
Debt:equityratio                80/20   84/16   46/54   43/57   43/57   41/59   39/61   35/65  30/70  29/71
In 1999, GPCD has converted about Y 1.40 billion domestic long term loan to equity.
Actual: 1997-1999.
Estimates: 2000.
Forecast: 2001-2006
- 41 -



Table 3: Guangdong: Foshan - Kaiping Highway Project
Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
Page 1 of 2
1 Traffic:
Small       Medium         Large       Small    Medium        Large    Tractor-
Car          Bus           Bus        Truck      Truck       Truck    Trailer      Total
Section 1. Foshan- Heshan
1997     7,454         3,509         338         4,970      2,339       1,351       341      20,302
1998     8,262         3,889         375         5,508      2,593       1,498       377      22,502
1999     9,500         4,472         431         6,334      2,982       1,722       434      25,875
2000     10,916        5,138         495         7,278      3,426       1,979       499      29,731
2007     19,323        7,984         769        12,883      5,324       3,075       775      50,133
2017     38,011        13,005        1,253      25,343      10,473      6,049      1,525     95,659
Section 2. Heshan- Shuikou (Kaiping)
1997     3,149         1,915         150         2,099      1,277        600        88       9,278
1998     3,491         2,123         166         2,327      1,415        664        99       10,285
1999     4,014         2,441         191         2,676      1,628        764        113      11,827
2000     4,612         2,805         219         3,074      1,870        878        130      13,588
2007     7,652         4,080         319         5,100      2,720       1,277       189      21,337
2017     13,704        6,039         472         9,133      4,871       2,287       338      36,844
2.  Tariffincrease 10% everythreyears.
Small      Medium      Large      Small      Medium        Large        Tractor-
Car         bus        Bus       truck       truck        truck         Trailer
YN-km            0.450       0.900       1.462      0.450      0.900         1.462        2.138
3. Ooramtit Costs and            Based on the actual figures, including operating and depreciation, increase
Management expenses:         5% every year.
4.  OQcratini Taxes:        5.5% of total revenue (including business tax, city tax and education levy).
5.  Income Tax Rate:       33.0% after the fifth positive profit year.
6.  Maintenance     Routine:     Based on the actual figures and increase 5% annually.
Medium:      1.5 times of total working cost for every five years.
Major       3.0 times of total working cost for every ten years.
7.  Desreciation-    Based on: (a) civil works (annual traffic density), (b) housing (30 years) and (c) equipment (8 years).
- 42 -



Table 3: Guangdong: Longgang- Tanxi Highway Project
Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
Page 2 of 2
1. Traffic:
Small     Medium      Large      Small     Medium       Large   Tractor-
Car        Bus        Bus       Truck      Truck       Truck   Trailer      Total
Section 1. Longgang- Baiyun
1997    3,712       1,720      178       2,474       1,146      710        513      10,453
1998   4,608       2,222       200       3,073       1,480      805        559      12,947
1999   4,951       2,400       175      3,302        1,602      697        566      13,693
2000    5,153       2,741      192       3,436       1,829       764       539      14,654
2007    8,008      4,547       298       5,339      3,034       1,187      838      23,251
2017   13,044      8,143       485       8,697      5,433       1,933      1,365    39,100
Section             2. Baiyun- Houmen
1997    3,262      2,104       139      2,173        1,403      555        389      10,025
1998    3,816      3,176       178      2,543       2,116       712        338      12,879
1999    4,222      3,129       169       2,813      2,085       674        290      13,382
2000    4,394       3,572      184       2,928       2,381       741       277      14,477
2007    7,290       6,323      305       4,858      4,215       1,229      460      24,680
2017   13,055      12,438      546       8,700       8,292      2,201      824      46,056
Section              3. Houman- Tanxi
1997    2,475       1,426      88        1,651       952        350        255      7,197
1998    2,968      2,260       124       1,980       1,507      498        271      9,608
1999    3,134      2,247       118      2,088        1,497      467        252      9,803
2000    3,261       2,564      128       2,174       1,709       511       242      10,589
2007    5,772       4.840      227       3,848       3,226       905       428      19,246
2017   11,354      10,449      447       7,570       6,965      1,780      842      39,407
2. Tariff: Increase 10% every three years.
Small     Medium      Large      Small     Medium       LargeT    ractor-
Car        bus        Bus       truck       truck      truck     Trailer
YN-km       0.450       0.900      1.462     0.450       0.900       1.462     2.138
3. Operating Costs and         Based on the actual figures, including operating and depreciation, increase
Manazement expenses:        5% every year.
4. Oweratine Taxes:       5.5% Of total revenue (inciuding business tax, city tax and education levy).
5. Income Tax Rate:      33.0% After the fifth positive profit year.
6. Maintenance:    Routine:    Based on the actual figures and increase 5% annually.
Medium:    1.5 times of routine maintenance for every five years.
Major:      3.0 times of routine maintenance for every ten years.
7. Depreciation:            30 Years straight-line method.
- 43 -



Table 4: Guangdong Province: Highway Revenues and Expenditures
during the Ninth Five Year Plan
(Yuan 100 million)
Page I of 2
1996   1997   1998    1999    2000Total
Revenues
I Road maintenance fee                        44.0   41.0   47.0   47.0    46.0   225.0
2 MOC subsidy                                  5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0        5.0   25.0
3 Provincial allocation                       23.0   22.0   25.0   25.0    25.0   120.0
4 Domestic loans                              30.0   28.0   32.0   33.0    32.0   155.0
5 Foreign loans                               19.0   18.0   20.0   20.0    20.0    97.0
6 Local financial allocation                  85.0   81.0   91.0   93.0    90.0  440.0
Total                                      206.0  195.0  220.0  223.0   218.0  1.062.
Expenditures:
I New construction and rehabilitation        153.5  147.0   173.0  167.5   159.0  800.0
2 Maintenance                                 30.5   28.0   27.5   32.5    34.5   153.0
3 Others                                      22.0   20.0    19.5   23.0    24.5   109.0
Total                                      206.0  195.0  220.0  223.0   218.0  1062.0
Total Road Network (Ian) -(a)                   89,631  91,862  92,960  94,070   95,200      --
Average annual increase                          --  2.5%    1.2%    1.2%      1.2%    1.5%
Total maintenance expenditure (100 million Yuan) -(b)    30.50   28.00   27.50   32.50    34.50   30.60
Average unit maint. expenditure ('000 Ylkm)- (b)/(a)  34    30      30      35      36      33
Average annual increase                          -- -10.4%   -2.9%   16.8%     4.9%    2.1%
Actual :1996-1998; estimates: 1999-2000.
- 44 -



Table 4: Guangdong Province: Highway Revenues and Expenditures
during the Tenth Five Year Plan
(Yuan 100 million)
Page 2 of 2
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005   Total
Revenues
I Road maintenance fee                         48.0    50.0    50.0    51.0    51.0   250.0
2 MOC subsidy                                   3.0     4.0      4.0     4.0      3.0    18.0
3 Provincial allocation                        29.0    30.0    30.0    30.0      31.0   150.0
4 Domestic loans                               31.0    32.0    32.0    33.0    32.0   160.0
5 Foreign loans                                15.0    16.0    16.0    16.0      17.0    80.0
6 Local financial allocation                   78.0    78.0    79.0    81.0      84.0   400.0
Total                                        204.0   210.0   211.0   215.0   218.0  1.058.0
Expeditures:
I New construction and rehabilitation         144.0   148.0   149.0   152.0    153.0   746.0
2 Maintenance                                  31.0    32.0    32.0    33.0      35.0   163.0
3 Others                                       29.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   149.0
Total                                        204.0   210.0   211.0   215.0   218.0  1,058.0
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                      96,140  97,090  98,050  99,020  100,000       -
Average annual increase                            --   1.00/0   1.0%    1.0%     1.0%    1.0%
Total maintenance expenditure (100 million Yuan) -(b)  31.00   32.00   32.00   33.00    35.00   32.60
Average unit maint. expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  32      33      33      33       35      33
Average annual increase                            --   2.2%   -1.0%    2.1%      5.0%    2.1%
- 45 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stagef of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/88                         4   1 Transport Planner, 1 Transport
Specialist, and 2 Transport
Economists
10/89                        3   1 Transport Planner, 1 Transport
Specialist, and 1 Transport
Economist
3/90                         1   1 Transport Specialist
6/90                         4   1 Transport Planner, 1 Highway
Engineer, 1 Transport Specialist,
and I Transport Economist
1/91                         1   Engineer
3/91                         4   1 Transport Specialist, 2
Highway Engineers, and 1
Operations Officer
7/91                         6   2 Transport Specialists, 1
Transport Planner, 1 Highway
Engineer, 1 Resettlement Expert,
and 1 Operations Officer
11/91                        7   2 Transport Specialists, 1
Transport Planner, 1
Environmental Specialist, 1
Resettlement Specialist, 1
Highway Maintenance
Equipment Engineer and I
Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/92                         7   2 Transport Specialists, 1
Transport Planner, 1
Environment Specialist, 1
Resettlement Specialist, 1
Road Safety Specialist, and I
Operations Officer
8/92                         5   2 Transport Specialists, I
Transport Planner, 1
Procurement Engineer, and I
Operations Officer
11/92                        1   1 Transport Specialist
Supervision
8/93                          4   2 Transport Specialists, I          HS             S
Environment Specialist, and
I Operations Officer
- 46 -



5/94                           4   1 Transport Specialist, I              HS              S
Resettlement Specialist, I
Financial Specialist and 1 Road
Improvement Program Specialist
10/94                          6   1 Transport Specialist, 1              HS              S
Environment Specialist, 1
Resettlement Specialist, I Road
Improvement Program Specialist,
I Financial Specialist, and I
Training Specialist
7/95                            6   1 Transport Specialist, 1             HS              S
Training Specialist, I Highway
Engineer, I Environment
Specialist, I Resettlement
Specialist, and I Road
Improvement Program Specialist
5/96                           5   1 Transport Specialist, I               S              S
Highway Engineer, I
Institutional and Traffic Safety
Specialist, 1 Road Improvement
Program Specialist, and I
Resettlement Specialist
5/97                            5   1 Transport Specialist, I              S              S
Institutional and Traffic Safety
Specialist, 1 Highway Engineer,
1 Private Highway Finance
Specialist and 1 Road
Improvement Program Specialist
10/97                          1   1 Procurement Engineer
11/97                          1   1 Environment Specialist
4/98                            6   1 Transport Specialist, I              S              S
Highway Engineer, 1
Institutional and Traffic Safety
Specialist, 1 Environmental
Specialist, I Resettlement
Specialist, and I Operations
Officer
3/99                           2   1 Procurement Engineer, and I           S              S
Highway Engineer
7/99                            3   1 Transport Specialist, I              S              S
Institutional and Traffic Safety
Specialist, and I Resettlement
Specialist
8/99                            1   1 Resettlement Specialist
11/99                          6   1 Transport Specialist, I               S              S
Highway Engineer, I
Institutional and Traffic Safety
Specialist, 1 Resettlement
Specialist, and 2 Environmental
Specialists
- 47 -



ICR
06/01                         3    2 Transport Specialists,, and
I1 Research Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actualaest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$  '000
Identification/Preparation                 63.0                        198.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                      56.5                        178.5
Supervision                               100.1                        379.0
ICR                                        11.0                         62.5
Total                                     230.6                        818.0
- 48 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
 Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
M Other (Please specifv)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
R&R
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 49 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
I Lending                                            OHS OS  OU  OHU
* Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
F  Overall                                           OHS OS  O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS  O U   O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
f Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 50 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Guangdong Provincial Highway Project, October 20, 1992
Guangdong Provincial Highway Administration Bureau, Environmental Action Plan, June 1994
Guangdong Provincial Highway Administration Bureau, Implementation Report, June 1994
Guangdong Provincial Freeway Co., Completion Report on Civil Construction of the (1) Foshan-Kaiping
Expressway (FKE); and (2) Longgang-Tanxi Expressway (LTE), January 1997
Guangdong Provincial Freeway Co., Completion Reports on E&M Works on: (1) Foshan-Kaiping
Expressway fFKE); and (2) Longgang-Tanxi Expressway (LTE), March 31, 2000
- 51 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
No Beneficiary Survey was undertaken.
- 52 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
A seminar was jointly organized on March 21, 2001 by Guangdong Provincial Communication
Department and the Bank to discuss results achieved with the securitization of toll road assets financed by
the Bank under the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project and the lessons that can be drawn. This
seminar was attended by 38 persons, from various units of Guangdong Province Communication
Department and Finance Bureau, GPFC, GPED, Ernst and Young, Goldsun Law Firm and GF Securities.
Results achieved with securitization operations
Securitization operations performed by GPED through two share issues and a share allotment
raised around RMB 1.8 billion on the Shenzhen stock market and from initial shareholders in the company.
They attracted more than 50 foreign investors, and many domestic investors. They occurred in a second
phase of the implementation of the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project, after the Province, through
GPFC, financed and constructed the project with World Bank's support. Project assets transferred by
GPFC to GPED were evaluated by financial experts to avoid underestimating them. Since securitization
proceeds were applied to road investments, directly by GPED or through the reallocation by GPFC of
funds recovered from GPED as a counterpart to the transfer of ownership in expressway companies,
securitization proved a successful way to speed up the development of expressways in Guangdong
Province. Hence social benefits expected from the project could be achieved. These operations supported
Guangdong Province policy to develop roads by "borrowing loans for road construction and collecting tolls
for loan repayment". As a general matter, a proper and favorable toll road policy towards poor
mountainous areas in Guangdong Province has helped those areas to improve their communication network
and lay foundations for addressing poverty issues.
Guangdong Province took great care to ensure that all transactions complied with Bank loan
agreement. To that purpose, GPFC's ownership in Fokai Expressway remains at 49 percent and its
capacity to repay the loan from its own resources was not impaired.
When both share issues were decided, the equity market was considered by GPFC to be a less
expensive source of funds than the bond market, given financial market conditions at that time.
Performances of A and B shares on stock exchange compare favorably with those of shares issued by the
other 15 Chinese toll road companies that are listed. The average rate of return for investors in GPED is
also in line with returns achieved by all these companies.
Lessons that can be drawn
Opening GPED capital to private investors was a strong incentive to better management and
compliance with stricter financial standards, and it improved the efficiency and the quality of toll road
operation by GPED.
Bank support to the construction of securitized assets was a very positive element in investors'
interest in GPED shares. Their primary motive for investing was nevertheless the quality of the company
assets. GPED's track record as an independent company prior to share issues was also instrumental.
Domestic interest in GPED shares shows that toll road shares may be assets prized by domestic financial
investors. On these grounds, Guangdong Province is keen to use again securitization as a means for
completing funding of the expressway network through GPED, its main financing vehicle for expressway
development. To satisfy investors criteria and ensure an effective return in the short term, priority will be
given to high quality assets and projects already opened to traffic or close to completion.
- 53 -



Bank's tirnely answer to requests for clearance is important to avoid delaying securitization
operations, as their success is dependent on often volatile market conditions. On the other hand, early
information of the Bank on the principle and structure of a securitization operation would ensure that its
views can be taken into consideration in the design stage of a transaction.
- 54 -



Additional Annex 10.Securitization Operations
Introduction
The experience in Guangdong Province with highway asset securitization since 1996 has contributed
greatly to the acceptance of this financing technique by other provinces in China, and particularly in the
highway sector. In the last 15 years, China has raised over USS4.5 billion for toll roads in over 80 joint
venture transactions involving the issuance of shares by some 15 domestic and foreign toll road
companies. Bank-financed assets have been used to successfully complete a total of $2.5 billion of
equity financings, or 56% of the total capital raised.
The review by the Bank of requests by Guangdong Province for no-objection to the securitization of
Guangdong Provincial Highway project assets indicates general support for the concept of leveraging
Bank-financed assets for the mobilization of new capital. As the internal evaluation process evolved in
the Bank, it is clear that Bank policies and standards were refined and several major criteria were
developed as the result of time and experience. Guidelines were formalized in a capital mobilization
guidance in December 1997 and have since been applied in several transport and power transactions by
the Bank.
Background of securitization transactions
The Guangdong Provincial Highway Project was approved by the Bank in 1992 and implemented by the
province beginning March 1993. Its objectives are to increase significantly the expressway capacity of
the province through the construction and expansion of several arterials, including the Longgang-Tanxi
Expressway (LTE) and the Fokai Expressway, both of which are principal traffic corridors serving
Guangzhou.
Among various elements of its financing, was a $240 nillion Bank loan for expansion and completion
of several major highway projects, including the Foshan-Kaiping Expressway (FKE).
Capital Structure of the FKE Project
Source of Funding         Capital Amount    Project Share
GPFC                            $192 million           47.8%
Debt
Equity
GPED                            $110 million           27.3%
B share proceeds              $65 million
Internal cash flow             $45 million
World Bank                      $100 million           24.9%
Grand Total       $402 million
The Province implemented this project through the Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPFC),
which is a 100% state-owned and Province-controlled entity, along with the Guangdong Provincial
Expressway Development Company (GPED).
GPFC was established in 1985 by provincial authorities for the purpose of development, construction,
and operations and maintenance of all expressways in the province, along with certain highways and
bridges, excluding those in Guangzhou and Shenzhen. From its inception, GPFC received an exclusive
license to enter into joint ventures and to award concessions to other investors, including GPED, for the
development of expressways and bridges in the province. Ownership of GPFC is held entirely by the
- 55 -



Guangdong Provincial Communications Department (GPCD). Since 1994, GPFC has implemented 20
bridge and expressway projects, totaling approximately RMB 12,362 million or approximately US$1.5
billion. In early 2001, GPFC established GPC Group Enterprises, Ltd. to assume all admninistrative and
management responsibility for its various shareholding investments, including GPED and the Fokai
Expressway Company.
In 1993, GPED was established by GPFC under the name of Guangdong Foshan-Kaiping Expressway
Shareholding Company Ltd. At the time of registration, the new company was capitalized with equity
by GPFC through the transfer of a 75% equity interest in the Guangfo Company, which operates the
Guangfo Expressway, along with a 100% interest in the Jiujiang Bridge. In June 1993, the company
was renamed Guangdong Provincial Expressway Development Co. Ltd (GPED), to be used primarily as
a financing utility for JV projects in the province. GPED is largely a developmental and financing arm
of GPFC, with a resident technical staff, led by General Manager and separate Board of Directors, all
of whom are affiliated with GPCD, as the senior provincial agency. This group of agencies collectively
has a considerable capacity for the plarming, design, and execution of major highway projects, perhaps
greater than any other province in China.
Since 1996, GPED has raised RMB 1.8 billion (US$212 million) in three separate share listings. In
total, these offerings attracted over 50 foreign investors.
As a key element of the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project, the Fokai Expressway Company
(FEC), jointly owned by GPFC (Initially 75%) and GPED (Initially 25%) undertook the rehabilitation
and expansion of the Foshan-Kaiping Expressway. FEC was granted a concession by the province to
collect tolls on the Fokai Expressway for a 30 year-period. The expressway subsequently opened to
traffic in 1997.
The following diagram describes the current arrangement among Guangdong provincial agencies for
ownership of GPED and the Fokai Expressway Company. The chart illustrates ownership levels
following completion of B and A share listings by GPED and after completion of the acquisition from
GPFC of additional shares in FEC, which gives GPED majority ownership of the expressway. GPFC
holds now a 49% ownership share in FEC, the remaining 51% equity position being held by GPED.
Organization of Guangdong Provincial Highway Agencies (2001)
Guangdong Provincial
|Cornmunication Dept.
100%        World Bank
Legal Persons Shares  Foreign Investors                      loan invested
A Shares   Staff haresJ        Bhares          Guangdong Provincia    in Fokai
I Freeway Company      by GPFC
13.02%                 17.56%             0.42%
39%
49%
Guangdong Provincial
xpressway Co., Ltd.
120%            175%                100%             51%    _
Dianbai-      Guangfiu Expressway  Jiujiang        Guangdong Fokai
Zhanjiang          Co., Ltd.        Bridge         Expressway Co., Ltd.
56 -



GPED's Growth and Development
As noted in the following table, GPED has experienced consistent growth in revenues and net income
over the past five years, while continuing to build its asset base at an average increase of 20% per year
while limiting long-term liabilities, and most importantly for investors, report solid growth in earnings
per share.
Financial Performance of GPED 1995-2000
(mil. RMB)
Description      1995       1996        1997        1998       1999      2000
Operating Income                   221        216         231        258       251
Net Income            127.0        137         144        147        293       135
Total Assets          1,205      1,802       1,907       2,586      3,057     3,791
Total Liabilities      130         173        245         325        605       423
Net Assets Per                    3.70        2.50        2.96       3.21      4.02
Share
Earnings/Share         0.28       0.38        0.22        0.19       0.38      0.16
Year-end B Share                  3.54        3.00        2.66       1.30
Price (HKD)
Year-end A Share                                         5.41        6.15
Price (RMB)                                                   I          I l_l
As discussed later, the price of GPED's publicly-traded shares has fluctuated far less in the domestic A
share market than among foreign investors in the B share market on the Shenzhen exchange. To a great
extent, however, the stability or growth which the company's shares have experienced over time may be
related more to the ownership structure of its equity capital than fundamentals in the market.
Although a publicly-traded company, GPED is effectively closely-held. This results from a high
percentage of shares authorized, but which are non-tradable (60.42%), GPFC's ownership of 39% of
GPED's total shares outstanding, and finally to a large concentration of shares held by several foreign
investors, led by IJM Overseas Ventures of Malaysia.
As further illustration of the closely held nature of GPED's ownership, the following summary of major
shareholders indicates that a few overseas investors, along with a number of provincial entities,
effectively control the company's equity.
- 57 -



Top Ten Shareholders (February 2001)
No.                     Name                          Number of        Ratio %
Shares Held (mil.)
I  Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPFC)            298.13         39.01
2  IJM Overseas Ventures Sdn, Bhd.                        115.41         15.10
3  DBS Nominees Private) Ltd.                              26.58          3.48
4  Keepel Bank Nominees Pte. Ltd.                          15.95          2.09
5  Keepel Securities Nominees Pte. Ltd.                    15.26          2.00
6  Guangdong Yue-cai Trust & Investment Company             9.38          1.23
7  Economic United Corporation, Siqian Town,                3.45          0.45
Xinhui City
8  Foreign Economic Industrial & Development                2.81          0.37
Company, Shunde City
9  Hu ing Groups, Nanhai City                               2.49          0.33
10  Transport Development Company, Shunde City               2.34          0.31
._____                                       Total              491.8        64.37
Unlike many publicly-traded companies in the U.S. and developed financial markets of Western Europe
and East Asia, GPED's equity base, primarily through management's actions, has experienced limited
volatility in the capital markets. As the company's financial performance indicates, GPED has achieved
a high level of shareholder value, even through the Asian Financial Crisis.
Performance of the Foshan-Kaiping Expressway
The Foshan-Kaiping Expressway was initiated as an extension of the Guangfo Expressway. The
corridor is approximately 80 km. Fokai opened to traffic in December 1996, with full operation
commencing in 1997. Collection of toll revenues increased from $1.3 million on opening to $2.15
million six months later in May 1997. Average daily traffic nearly tripled from 11,648 vehicles in 1997
to 30,957 vehicles in the year 2000. According to GPED, the Fokai Expressway Company generated a
net IRR of 19.01% on invested capital in 1999. The current and projected financial performance of the
expressway is reflected in the following table.
- 58 -



Foshan-Kaiping Highway Project
Current and Projected Performance (1997-2006)
(USD mil.)
Category               1997        2000        2003        2006
Traffic (niil. veh.-km)           431.86       632.46      783.35     971.11
Operating Revenue                   27.43       38.55       48.13       65.52
Operating Profit                    20.94       17.63       25.06     *17.22
Repayment of Domestic Loans         32.60       16.68       15.66       15.00
Net Profit after Taxes            (11.91)        1.87        7.01        2.32
Source: World Bank ILICR
* Results reflect major pavement works expected in 2006.
Analysis of GPED's Securitization Transactions
The intention at the outset of GPED's entry to the equity market was to raise sufficient capital to
effectively complete the Fokai Expressway in December1996 and to eventually acquire majority control
from GPFC of the Fokai Expressway Company.
The following diagram illustrates GPFC's majority ownership in GPED and the Fokai Expressway
prior to the B share offering.
GPFC/GPED Shareholding Relationship - Prior to B Share Listing
l                     | ~~~~~~~~~into Fokai by GPFC
64.56%
_75%
Guangdong Provincial
Expressway
Development Co., Ltd.
25%  
Guangdong Fokai Expressway Co., Ltd.
B Share Offering
GPED's first public offering was completed with the issuance of 135 million B shares on the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange Approval by the World Bank of GPED's no-objection request was granted on June 26,
1996, and shortly thereafter, the financing was completed in Shenzhen. Shares were issued at a price of
HK$3.54 per share, raising RMB 484 million (around $ 62 million). The lead underwriter for this
offering was China Securities Co. Ltd., a mainland firm, who received substantial support in the
international financial markets by BA Asia Ltd., a Hong Kong-based subsidiary of Bank of America.
- 59 -



The listing of B shares by GPED diluted GPFC's ownership in the company to a level of 44.88%, but
without affecting the ownership structure of the Fokai Expressway.
Proceeds were applied up to RMB 334 million to fund construction of Fokai Expressway, and the
remaining in the expansion of another project, the Guangfo Expressway.
A Share Offerings
Guangdong authorities advised the Bank in 1997 of GPED's intention to issue 100 million A shares in
Shenzhen to domestic investors to support completion of the Fokai Expressway and to undertake several
new projects. GPED originally advised the Bank that it wished to acquire a majority interest in the
Fokai Expressway through the acquisition of an additional 26% of ownership from GPFC. Provincial
authorities later modified this plan with a request to acquire a 10% ownership interest from GPFC, and
another 16% at a later time. A formal request for no-objection was submitted to the Bank, which
approved the transactions on September 25.
The public offering was completed in Shenzhen with the issuance of 100 million A shares by GPED in
January 1998 for RMB 5.41 per share. Net proceeds of the share offering totaled approximately RMB
528 million (US$65 million), which was equivalent to the capital raised two years earlier in the B share
listing.
Of this amount, approximately US$49.68 million was paid to GPFC by GPED for the acquisition of an
additional 10% interest in Fokai and the balance was again used by GPED for investment in the
expansion of the Guangfo Expressway with GPFC.
Funds received by GPFC from GPED were used to assist in the completion of the 105-km
Dianbai-Zhanjiang Expressway, also a joint venture with GPED.
The A share listing diluted GPFC's ownership of Fokai to 65% and its equity position in GPED to a
level of 39%.
In August 2000, GPED exercised its right to issue "allotment shares" on the Shenzhen A share
exchange. This offering raised net proceeds of RMB 797 million (US$ 96.02 million). Proceeds of the
issue were used to purchase a 33% interest in the Shenzhen-Hui Yuan Expressway and a 30% share of
the Guanghi Expressway, under construction, among other projects.
Transfer of Majority Ownership in FKE
In February 1999, approximately one year after completion of the A share offering and GPED's
acquisition of a 35% ownership share in Fokai, GPED requested the Bank's no-objection to the
acquisition of an additional 16% ownership interest, which would effectively give it majority control of
the expressway.
In documents presented to the Bank, GPED estimated that the value of the 16% ownership transfer
would amount to RMB 660 million (US$ 79.5 million). GPED proposed to fund the purchase from
RMB 600 million from intemal sources and the remaining RMB 60 million from commercial bank
loans. GPED's estimate was consistent with a value of RMB 4.1 billion (US$ 494 million) assigned to
the entire Fokai Expressway Company, as estimated by an independent firm selected by the province.
The broad valuation was based on the replacement cost of the 80-km expressway and expected future
cash flows, with no subsidy accruing to the private sector, as a result of the share transfer.
The Bank conducted a detailed analysis of GPED's ownership structure following the proposed share
transfer, with particular interest in the capacity of the Fokai Expressway to continue to generate
sufficient monies to repay the $100 million FKE construction loan. There was also a detailed review of
the legal implications involved for the Bank in effectively agreeing to the assignment of a 51%
- 60 -



ownership interest in Fokai to GPED. These various issues were evaluated and ultimately resolved by
the Bank, and its no-objection letter was issued on August 9, 2000. Completion of the transaction is
pending final approval by the government.
As noted below, the transfer will ultimately result in 49% ownership of the Fokai Expressway by
GPFC. In addition GPFC holds a 39% share of GPED - the new majority owner of FEC.
GPFC/GPED Shareholding Relationship - After all share issues and share transfers
Guangdong Provincial Freeway Co.]
l    390/o
49%
Guangdong Provincial
Expressway
Development Co., Ltd.
j 51%/
15,%
Guangdong Fokai Expressway Co., Ltd.
Evolution of share values
The following table illustrates the price perfonnance of GPED's B shares since issuance in 1996 and
reflects the volatility which has characterized the global financial markets in the last several years.
Share price levels dropped to HK$1.30 in May 1999, reaching a high of HK$3.84 in August 2000. The
30-day average closing price of the stock in February 2001 was HK$3.3 1. Since 1996, GPED's B
shares have closely tracked the movement of the market index. See the chart below.
- 61 -



GPED B Share PriceISZE Index
5                             150
4                                 x
I 3 - i;1=.E.N7 ; 100              0
1                                 0j  s
3-                      *ar
0                            0
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
The domestic holders of A share securities have experienced significant appreciation in the value of
their shares since issuance in 1998. The price of GPED's A shares increased to RMB 9.44 in
December 1999, and through 2000, while the foreign markets where experiencing highly volatile
movements, the share price climbed steadily, finally peaking at a level exceeding RMB 20.00 in
mid-May. Since June 2000, the share price has remained in the range of RMB13.50-14.50, last closing
in February 2001 at a 30-day average of RMB 13.55.
It appears that GPED's A share performance reflects general market trends occurring in China and as
well the company's financial performance during the 1998-99 period. The following chart indicates that
through 1999 and half of 2000, GPED's A shares outperformed the market, only recently lagging the A
share index.
GPED A Share PricISZE Index
20                          700
m 15^ =5iM     _00 x
tfn    5    0B   ,S6,@,4 V' , $:$t-R=,  7   r 200 
0~~~~~~~ 4M0 000ty--  0000  00S  00  Shr
4                               C
0-        4               f Q   .O
1998    1999    2000   2001
At the start of 2001, there were 15 domestic road and bridge companies listed in the market, including
ten on domestic exchanges and five in Hong Kong. GPED's financial performance compares favorably
- 62 -



with nine other listed companies on the mainland. In 1999, GPED reported earnings per share of RMB
0.39 compared to the average of RMB 0.35. GPED's return on net assets in 1999 was 11.95%
compared to an average of 10.76% of the ten listed companies.
Impact of the transactions on the project funded by the Bank
Borrower and Implementing Agency
The funds raised through securitization transactions in the Shenzhen market were in effect leveraged by
the future traffic stream on Fokai Expressway . These operations contributed significantly to the
accomplishment of the project's development objectives. As a result GPFC, as the project implementing
agency, was able to offset a shortage in counterpart funds for completion of the Fokai Expressway.
Through an increasing share of ownership in Fokai, GPED also established a larger base of toll
revenues for implementation of future highway projects in the province.
In the first transaction, the 1996 B share offering, most of the proceeds were reinvested by GPED in the
construction of the Fokai Expressway to fund cost increases. The remaining was applied to the
expansion of another expressway project, (Guangfo Expressway).
GPED utilized $50 million of the $65 million proceeds from the January 1998 A share offering to
purchase an additional 10% equity share of the Fokai from GPFC. Purchase of the additional interest in
Fokai entitled GPED to receive additional toll revenues from Fokai on an ongoing basis, in order to
further its construction program, and if necessary, to leverage new capital. The remaining was again
invested in other expressway projects. Funds received by GPFC were in turn used to complete the
Dianbai-Zhanjiang Expressway with GPED.
Since the initial B share offering by GPED in 1996 and subsequent A share listing in 1998, the
company's network of toll expressways and involvement in joint ventures has grown four-fold.
Through 1999 it has generated steadily increasing gross revenues and net income. The financial
capacity of GPED to borrow funds in the domestic markets on the strength of its balance sheet and
project revenues is also well evident. Following the A share listing and the acquisition of an additional
equity interest in Fokai, the company was able to secure an RMB 1.5 billion line of credit from the
Communications Bank of China. More recently, GPED sold the toll collection rights to the Jiujiang
Bridge, of which it owns 100%, to the Fokai Expressway Company for $35 million. These funds will
be used by GPED for new highway projects. Clearly, the agency's experience in the securitization of
revenues for fundraising purposes is now quite mature.
GPED has also invested in the following five projects under construction: a) Guanghui Expressway
(30%); b) Puhui Expressway (25%); c) Tangtang-Taihe Section of South Jingzhu Expressway (25%);
d) Xiaotang-Gantang Section of North Jingzhu Expressway (10%); and e) Guangzhao Expressway
(25%). All of these projects are part of the National Trunk Highway System or national and provincial
road system.
GPCD and GPFC have considerable financial resources of their own, largely as the result of project
revenues, taxes, and user fees and charges. These agencies, however, do rely on GPED, and other
provincial affiliates, as a joint venture partner and a creditworthy source of capital, both as the result of
ongoing cash flows and ability to access commercial banks and the capital markets for funds as needed.
- 63 -



Loan commitments and legal issues
The securitized financings were completed with no effect on Bank policies regarding loan
implementation. Regarding borrower's commitments, the Bank was given assurances by Guangdong
authorities and the Ministry of Finance that the Fokai Expressway Company would have the right to
operate the expressway, the obligation to maintain it, and the capacity to remit sufficient revenues to
GPFC to repay the Bank loan. Such assurances were viewed by the Bank as legal underpinning for a
30-year concession agreement granted to the Fokai Expressway Company to collect toll revenues in this
corridor. The Fokai Company is obligated and has an incentive to operate and maintain the expressway
efficiently. loan, and if necessary, to use funds from other sources. To the question of whether or not
49% ownership of Fokai by GPFC would compromise the Bank's position as the primary lender to the
project, intemal analysis by Bank in 1999 concluded that GPCD/GPFC would continue to exercise
effective control of GPED after the share transfer. The sensitivity analysis conducted by GPED when
requesting no-objection for purchase of a 16% interest in Fokai also revealed that coverage ratios for the
$11 million annual Bank debt service requirement would exceed 1.5 times even with a 20% reduction in
toll revenues. Further, GPFC provided assurances to the Bank that it would secure funds from other
available sources to repay the Bank and to support the operation and maintenance of the expressway in
accordance with the loan and project agreements, under any foreseeable future economic circumstances
affecting the project.
The asset securitization transactions were carried out with the approval and under the supervision of the
China Securities Regulatory Commnission and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Regulations and
disclosure requirements of both entities were well understood by GPED, its underwriters, and bond
counsel, and complied with in Offering Memorandums and related financing documents.
The securitization transactions involved only the issuance of equity shares in GPED, without the
involvement of commercial lenders, debt securities, or bondholders. As such, there are no financing
covenants applicable to the operation and maintenance of GPED's facilities. All provisions in the
Bank's project and loan agreements with GPFC are fully protected and remain enforceable, including an
August 2000 amendment which requires Bank approval for any modifications to the toll collection
agreement between the province and Fokai Expressway Company.
The securitizations were successfully completed in the equity markets without any liability to sovereign
or sub-sovereign agencies for repayment. The risks and rewards of the share offerings were allocated to
the purchasers of the A and B share securities.
Bank Policies
The securitizations were successfully completed in the equity markets without any liability to sovereign
or sub-sovereign agencies for repayment. The risks and rewards of the share offerings were allocated to
the purchasers of the A and B share securities. Development objectives have been enhanced through
securitization transactions which have been completed in a transparent manner and in the absence of
special interests in the transactions. There appears indeed to be no subsidy to the private sector as a
result of the securitization financings. Rather, asset securitization by GPED has had the effect of
involving the private sector in its operations, which is consistent with the Bank's policy of promoting
greater access by private entities to public commercial ventures.
The table above synthesizes the impact of securitization transactions along considerations identified in
the Bank' initial evaluation of such operations.
- 64 -



Issues
Considerations                Developme tal                          Financial                         Policy                               Lega
Project Level      - Were Project            No              Did implementing   Yes                                             - Had Implementing    No
objectives undermined?                    Agency retains                                                    Agency legal            change
- Does implementing      Yes              financial capacity                                                capacity to carry out
agency retained                           and viability to                                                 the project?
technical and                             carry out project?                                                - Was Implementing    No
institutional capacities                                                                                    agency bound by
to carry out the project?                                                                                  implementation.
- Was there continued     Yes                                                                               related covenants?
commitment to project?
- Where changes in       No
proiect scope required?                                         _
Country-Level      - Were transactions       Yes             -Did country         Yes
consistent with                           receives fair
country's development                     value?
agenda
- Were transactions      Yes              - Was country's      No
equitable for country?                    financial standing
- Were proceeds used      Yes             adversely affected?
for development
purposes?
. Was there adequate      Yes
transparency?
- Were other             No, supported
development projects    in fact
_    undermined?
Institutional                                                - Was likelihood of  No   - Were Bank resources    No             - Has Bank contractual  No
sovereign default          used for private gain ?               privity with
to IBRD                    - Were proceeds from      No           implementing agency?
increased?                 transaction used for                   - Was there a breach    No
- Was non            Yes  purpose inconsistent                    of covenant?
sovereign                  with Bank mandate?                     - Was there             Yes
borrower able to           - Was there                No          compliance with IBRF
repay IBRD loan            misrepresen-tation re:                 articles?
Bank in public offering               - Was IBRD's             No
documentation?                        negative pledge
- Did adequate and        Un-         triggered?
timely information flow    sufficient  - Did transaction       No
to Bask                               impact on cofinanciers
- Was Bank's ability to    Yes        and potential
supervise retained?                   contractual liabilities
- Were Bank consents      Yes         under supply
sought?                               contracts?
- Compliance with         NA
Bank's environmental
policies?
-A ppropriate partners?    Yes                    _
Lessons Learned and Future Directions
The securitization transactions which are part of the Guangdong Highway Project offer a number of
valuable lessons and experiences for the refinement and possible future application of this financing
technique in China. The principal issues and subjects can be addressed as follows:
Bank's approach of securitization operations.
Alternatives to share issues
At the time a shortage in counterpart funding for the Fokai expansion appeared, the Hong Kong and
Chinese mainland equity markets were highly liquid and accessible by mainland companies, with only a
few highway share listings. A combination of these factors helped drive an intense level of interest by
international investors in such stocks, primarily for speculative near-term price appreciation. The
securities market in China is still in the developmental stage, with investor demand which is greater than
the supply of shares.
GPFC viewed the equity market in 1996 as providing the cheapest possible capital for the project,
particularly in view of a limited domestic debt market, with interest rates in the range of 20%. There
- 65 -



was very little possibility at that time for a long-term debt issue in the international capital markets,
given central government restrictions on debt issues by sub-sovereign entities, and the fear of RMB
devaluation and the likely negative impact on foreign-denominated debt serviced from revenues in local
currency. The province further believed that the ability to forgo repayment of debt during expressway
operation was beneficial to the Fokai project and GPED shareholders. Since 1996, GPED has paid
dividends of RMB 357 mnillion (US$43 million) to shareholders.
Alternative options available to GPFC in 1996 possibly consisted of borrowing funds from the central
government to meet counterpart funding requirements, or to shift budget resources from other projects
to the Fokai Expressway. The company could also have solicited private investors, typically a Hong
Kong developer, for the needed capital, in return for an operating concession. Finally, GPFC could
have utilized the local ITIC as a conduit to the intemational market for funds.
The decision-making process in the province on these various financing options is not known.
Guangdong Province, most likely with the advice of its investment bankers, decided to utilize GPED as
a share issuer, and to strengthen the company's balance sheet with revenue-producing expressway
assets and the implicit endorsement of the World Bank, to secure funds as quickly and cheaply as
possible.
Since 1996, China's domestic markets have matured to the point where infrastructure debt financing is
now available through mainland commercial banks on terms which are often more competitive than in
the international markets. China's commercial banks are also in a position to purchase project bonds
issued by such companies as GPED, which is aided by the absence of long-term debt on the company's
balance sheet. In certain cases for provincial entities, the country's banks are also willing to take
project risk on the underlying strength of project revenues, similar to limited recourse financing. In the
mid- I 990s, China's debt markets were without the capacity to offer borrowers such incentives.
However, the inherit risks in start-up toll roads and other infrastructure projects without a contractual
fee structure or predictable revenue stream will likely continue to make third party capital scarce for
project sponsors. This is true in China which has a large unmet demand for essential public facilities
and a growing but still immature capital market without a legal and policy framework which is yet
conducive to the needs of foreign lenders and international investors. It means that efforts to securitize
existing revenue-producing assets such as toll roads with the involvement of credible intemational
institutions, such as the World Bank, will continue to be an important capital-raising device for the
country. The level of project preparation and due diligence normally required by the Bank for
leveraging its assets in the financial markets provides a needed level of security to commercial financial
institutions and investors in China who would otherwise look to an established policy framework, which
at present is still in the formative stages. Exposure to the requirements of private investors was also a
strong incentive for GPED to consistently strengthen management and compliance with strict financial
standards, thereby improving the quality and efficiency of toll road operation.
Value added by securitization of Bank-financed assets add value to issuers and purchasers ofpublic
securities
Guangdong's experience in the equity markets over the past five years would indicate that the success of
any particular offering can be impacted by variables far beyond project economics. In the case of
highway stocks, for example, there are now at least ten major entities listed on the Hong Kong,
Shenzhen, and Shanghai exchanges, who are effectively competing in the secondary market for
investment. In addition, the globalization of securities markets which has occurred since GPED's 1996
B share offering adds a level of volatility and uncertainty which can greatly impact trading decisions
which ultimately affect the value of listed companies, without consideration to their earnings
performance.
- 66 -



Asset securitization may have little impact on the stock price or earnings performance of a particular
company, but it does offer investors a measure of comfort with IPOs and start-up ventures. Experience
has proven, however, in GPED's case that the involvement of World Bank-financed assets has had
minimal impact, if any, on long-term price fluctuations in tradable stock and nowhere is this more
evident than in the price performance of GPED's A and B shares over the past several years.
Internal Bank review
The December 1997 capital mobilization guidance approved by the World Bank Board establishes a
comprehensive set of policies and standards to be considered by task managers in developing
transactions with Bank-financed assets.
China's provinces originate much of their expressway construction and financing requirements with
oversight by SDPC, the Ministry of Communications, and the Ministry of Finance. These agencies,
along with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, also approve the issuance of equity shares by
expressway development companies, which are established at the provincial level. In most cases, the
Bank has not been involved in the fonnation of provincial plans for new construction or the financing
strategy until these plans reach a high level of maturity in the government.
The Guangdong experience illustrates the need for a close relationship between a thorough review of the
transaction by the Bank and the timing established by the sponsoring agency and its underwriters to take
the offering to market. This involves a close partnership between the Bank, the province, and central
agencies and Ministries, from the conceptual stage of the transaction through the process of deciding
how and when to incorporate Bank-financed assets, so as to maximize their contribution to the sponsor'
s development objectives and benefits to the public.
In the B share offering by GPED, the Bank was made aware of the timning of this transaction rather late
in the preparation of the offering. There was little timne available for the Bank to help structure the
transaction in the face of pressure from Guangdong authorities and its underwriters to quickly approve
the no-objection request.. The process may have been less frantic and perhaps more effective had the
Bank been involved much earlier in discussions with GPED and its underwriters.
Expansion of asset securitization to support the issuance of debt securities in the capital markets
Global experience in established financial markets reveals that long-term debt securities and commercial
bank loans will ultimately be a far cheaper form of infrastructure finance than equity investment, which
frequently demands a return of 15%-20% in a developing country environment. Equity holders of
GPED's B shares originally anticipated that the momentum of the market would carry the value of the
shares to a level sufficient for their needs. In the absence of a forward moving market for most of the
last three years, the company's B shares languished at levels well below their HK$3.45 opening price.
The sluggishness of the market during this time effectively precluded the issuance of additional B shares
by GPED at a price which fairly reflected the company's performance and outlook. Payment of
generous dividends which may have influenced share value, but at the expense of GPED's capital
program, could have hampered the development objectives of the project. An option to consider in the
future is the issuance of fixed price bonds which are securitized by existing assets and priced at a rate
and term in the credit markets, which may be preferable to the volatility which has characterized most
equity markets around the world.
- 67 -



Conclusion
The use of Bank assets in Guangdong Province for GPED's initial share offerings in 1996 and 1998
served as an example of how Bank resources can be used to leverage new capital in the public markets,
apart from the Bank's role as a traditional lender for the development of new infrastructure. GPED's B
share offering was the first of its type for China's provinces, and helped set the stage with institutional
and retail investors, along with securities regulators, for similar share financings by at least four other
provinces in Hong Kong and on the mainland from 1996 onward. Subsequent transactions in Zhejiang
and Sichuan Provinces, using Bank-financed assets, were in part modeled on GPED's transactions. The
country's experience and record of success with securitizations for toll road development is unique in
the world.
Asset securitization by GPED has in fact enhanced and hastened the highway development program in
Guangdong Province, supporting the govermment's policy to develop roads by "borrowing loans for
road construction and collecting tolls for loan repayment." The agency's share listings secured new
capital from extemal sources while encouraging the involvement of the private financial markets. These
financings are in contrast to commercial bank loans and the involvement of multilateral lenders, who
require sovereign guarantees of repayment.
Without the benefit of the Fokai Expressway as part of GPED's initial public offering and the implicit
endorsement of this transaction by the World Bank, it is without question that the company's B shares
could not have been as favorably priced by the underwriter. The shares were sold at a price-earnings
(P-E) ratio of ten times 1995 earnings, compared to an average P-E ratio of seven times on the
Shenzhen B Share Exchange. The offering was also more than two times oversubscribed by investors.
Through GPED, Guangdong Province is willing to consider securitization in the future as a potential
means of completing the funding base needed to improve the expressway network. Given GPED's
understanding of investor criteria, priority will be given to high- quality assets and projects already open
to traffic or close to completion, in order to provide an adequate return to investors in the short term
- 68 -



- 69 -






<;,<   '. :: |    i  ' L /  2\  ' 'to  t            g o;             FUJIAN    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR2327
FEEATO                  HUN                                                        a 
MONC> GOLIA      21RORATP
Y-g             N                        - N
';  ---- it fll                  o  i d1  BlJ  ifi                         @ PRCT14.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~  \ W
PliEFECIUEiiSOliNDARIE5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
111 i2> 1115 0 | I ; : | i i - JUNE21Xi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
JA   X  )  )                        0    X                               -''~~~~ PRaviNCEWNPZH A OEN






-.                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN    1R39R
~~~~~    \    \  UN  HU                                                                                                         F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDERATON 
Din9h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~CHINA
/                                                                                                                                                     FU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONGOLIA
FRDENIN                                                                  GUANGDONG PROVINCE HIGHWAY PROJECT
-  X'~~  ANZHOU        FEhe~~~~,   -                                          FOSHAN-KAIPING AND LONGGANG-TANXI HIGHWAY
s              nyu                                                             L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROPOSED PROJECT                                       .4
~.ZHA  >NG                                             SEBRCE Goo.m,HIGHWAYCONSTRUCTION
-,  Georning   SEDGE -           'I.                                                -,   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIDGES
v ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    a~       c~-                                                                                                  TUNELS
H~-~                                     -CINTERCHANGES                                                                                                                           T6I      4
XIAT    e  n-                                                                                                                                    EXISTING  EPRSSWAY                                             '           4
i  Heche,I9                                  kn6n                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL ROADS                                    RE
--   i,  necrieng                                                                                                                                                        '-'-00'           PIEEEINES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
-'PROV NCE ROADS
N    ~~-   ~~-"'S.-'F  "~~~'"''~~-                                    ---- ~ COUNTY ROADS                                       IlTUINAN                         '' '-.IAGI 
shn                                                                                                              RAILo C   _) ------   XROADS                                               0                        ~EIA
-      $Eqion      X,nIBu4    55 ~~~~~~~  ZhSTgEI,E,R                                                   0 ~~~~PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                            'c.                  F4.5      -AN
*   )  -  SHOE    ~ ~ ~~~~~'-                                                                                           - - - ~9SPREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
Shoikou
14  J'  \~~~~~~~~~~~{,                                                                        -   - ~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARY                          GUANGXI                            030'~"''' NG* 
M1ACAO                               Sh =-,-F AVOd y.TpUT  ,,T~U4E
Xinxu  FJTORETER
I  ingc I ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                   I*                                  '                                                     1
PIT2CIEi                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Renshon               J                            Chihi                                                          LIN
/Longgang                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lwfeng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iln
'Pngshan                                       ~
HENZHEN                                                   Dc4ya Bay 
~~~ 'a~0                                                                                     Don9yong                   laihu
*OflTIORYEU   ~~~~~~~'                                )  ~Yanzlso 0~                                   Hongr Hagi Ba                                      -
JUNE 2001



