/ +<       5   )           (          C    </il
Document of
The World Bank
f'OR OFFICIAII  USE ONLY
Mf CHRO ()F I  E H O' PY
Rerpoi t Noi. 1 01799--CHA     'ype: (Ar )
Ti t.e: I GUANGDOrW  PR()VTNO5IAJ, HIGHWAY F'              Report No. 10799-CHA
A  I th : STA RPO ,
EX. :31'1,928 rr -  A7989 D)ept. .:A2TP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
OCTOBER 20, 1992
Transport Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and ma} be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1992)
Currency name                                        Renmir,bi
Currency unit                                        Yuan (Y)
$1.00                                                Y 5.46
$0.19                                                Y 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
Tanuary 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                           =              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      =              0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)                 =              10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilormter (sq km)                           0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 (sq ';n)        =              2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu                                                 666.7 sq m = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                                      2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  =              2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP    - Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)
E&M     -  Electrical, electronic and mechanical
EA      -  Environmental Assessment
EAP     -  Environin.ntal Action Plan
EBM     -  Expenditure Budgetting Model
EIRR    - Economic Internal Rate of Return
FYRR    -  First Year Rate of Return
GOC     -  Government of China
GOVAI   -  Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
GP      -  Guangdong Province
GPCD    -  Guangdong Provincial Communications Department
GPCTS   -  Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study
GPEPB   -  Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
GPFC    - Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company
GPHAB   -  Guangdong Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
GPHDI   -  Guangdong Provincial Highway Design Institute
GPPC    -  Guangdong Provincial Planning Commission
HDM     - Highway Design and Maintenance Model
HSRI    - Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
JST     - Joint Supervision Team
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
MOC     - Ministry of Communications
NPV     - Net Present Value
PMS     -  Pavement Management System
PRC     -  The People's Republic of China
PSB     -  Public Security Bureau
RAP     - Resettlement Actioa Plan
RDB     -  Road Data Bank
RIP     -  Road Improvement Program
RMF     -  Road Maintenance Fee
ROW     -  Right of Way
RSPP    -  Road Safety Pilot Pro gram
SEA     -  Sectoral Environmental Assessement
SEAP    -  Sectoral Environmental Action Plan
SEZ     -  Special Economic Zone
SPC     -  State Planning Commission
TCU     -  Technical Coordinating Unit



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
CHIM
GUANGODOG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan andt Prolect Summary
People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Guangdong Province
&anOuntt                   $240 million equivalent
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Objectives:        The project has the following specific objectives:
(a) to relieve congestion in two major traffic cor-
ridors; (b) to improve other national and provin-
cial roads carrying substantial volumes of traffic;
(c) to promote the transfer of highway technology
through training and the provision of equipment;
(d) to further develop institutional capability in
highway design, planning and prioritization; and
(e) to implement reforms of highway financing.
Proiect Descrintinl:t    The project includes:  (a) construction on new
alignments of the four-lane dividee, access con-
trolled, Foshan-Kaiping Highway (80 km) and
Longgang-Tanxi Highway (146 km); (b) a Road
Improvement Program (RIP) for upgrading and reha-
bilitating about 1,260 km of provincial and
national roads; (c) consultant services for con-
struction supervision of the highways; (d) techni-
cal assistance to support analysis of highway
finances in Guangdong Province and to formulate an
action program for implementin,, reforms; (e) a road
safety pilot project; (f) further development of
the Road Data Bank and Pavement Management System;
(g) purchase of equipment for road laboratories,
environmental protection, road research, the road
data bank, the pavement management system, road
maintenance and highway operations; and (h) staff
training.
Proiect Benefitss          Primary benefits from the Foshan-Kaiping and
Longgang-Tawxi Highways and the Road Improvement
iogram will be in the form of road user cost sav-
ings resulting from improved vehic&e operating
costs and time savings due to improved pavements
and reduced length of the new highway. Other bene-
fits will stem from reduced congestion on the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



existing roads, including better conditions for
bicycles and aSricultural traffic, and accelerated
industrial and agricultural growth based on
improved transport facilities. Additional benefits
due to the Road Improvment Program will accrue
from maintenance cost savings on the improved
provinciallcounty road network.
Because of the difficult subsoil conditions along
the alignment of the ioshan-Kaipgng and Longgang-
T&nxi Highways, the major risk is delay in the
completion of the highways and the quality of con-
struction. To counter this risk, two test embank-
ments are being built In advance of the main works
to investigate the extont and timing of soft soil
treatments. Since the implementing agency for the
two highways is a first-time executing agency for a
Bank project, t2tere is also a risk in implementing
the major highway components of the project in a
timely manner. However, the preparation of the
project Was assisted by the Bank's experience in
previous provincial highway projects, and by the
more active involvement of the Ministry of Communi-
cation.; this enh4aced role of the Ministry is
expocted to continue into future projects. To min-
imize the risks, the project was designed with the
assistance of foreign  xoprts, prequalification of
contractors was made particularly stringent, and
supervision arrangements were carefully formulated
to ensure regular monitoring and effective quality
control.



ZYoLecJ Co2St                                      Local      Foreian        Total
-------- ($ million)    …
A.   Works
(a) Foshan-Kaiping Highway:
(i) Civil Works                           126.97      91.38       218.35
(ii) Electrical, Electronic and
Mechanical (Eh&) Supply and
Installation                            2.75        6.42        9.17
(b) Longgang-Tauxi Highway:
(i) Civil Works                           139.45      100.73      240.18
(ii) E&M Suxpply and Installation            1.10        2.75        3.85
(c) Road Impro7ement Program                   65.79       30.96       96.75
(d) Road Safety Pilot Program                   0.25        0.15         0.40
Subtotal                                      336.31      232.39       568.70
D.   Superviaion of Construction
(a) Foshan-Flaiping Highway                     2.83        1.70         4.53
(b) Longgang-Tanxi Highway                      3.82        1.94         5e76
(c) Road Improveme.it Program                   1.15        0.00         1.15
Subtotal                                        7.80        3.64        11.44
C.   Ealuiiment
(a) Foshan-Kaiping/Longgang-Tanxi:
(i) Supervision/Laboratories                0.10        0.88        0.98
(ii) Operation and Maintenance               0.47        7.33        7.80
(iii) Environmental/Research                  0.37        0.99         1.36
(b) Road Improvement Program:
(i) Supervision                             0.04        0.69        0.73
Cii) Provincial Road Maintenance             0.00        2.23        2.23
(iii) PHS/RDB                                 0.08        0.53        0.61
(c) Road Safety Pilot Program                   0.00        0.07         0.07
Subtotal                                          06       12.72        13.78
D.   Staff TraininulTechnical Assistance
(a) General Training                            0.13        1.17         1.30
(b) Supervision Training                        0.34        0.41         0.75
(c) Highway Financing TA                        0.07        0.06         0.13
Subtotal                                        0.54        1.64         2.18
Base Cost                                           345.71     250.39       596.10
Physical Contingency 1_a                             34.41      23.60        58.01
Price Contingency Lk                                 65.52      26.04        91.56
Base Cost with Contingency                          445.64     300.03       745.67
E.   Land Aeauisition and Resettlement               49.46       0.00        49.46
Total Pro1ect Cost Lc                         495.10      300.03       7925.13
* Ten percent of items A and B.
Price contingency for local and foreign costat  142 and 61, respectively,
for items AMC) and A(d); 182 and 10X, respectively, for the remaining
items.
le Identifiable taxes and duties are about $15 million.



Local           Porelan             Tctal
--------- -- ($ illon)-------------
Financlna Plan:
Provincial Government             436.7              60.0             496.7
Central Government                 58.4               0.0              58.4
IBRD                                0.0             240.0             240.0
Total Finsacinz Reauired             495.1             300.0             792.1
Eatimated Disbursement:t
Bank  Grour2 1993    1994    19                         1997 19    j    19
-----------------   ($  million)… -------------------
Annual                 24      24      38       44       52      46      12
Cumulative             24      48      86      130      182     228     240
Economic Rat.
of Return:            30 percent on components comprising 99 percent of the
total project costs
lipst                   IBRD 24225, 23927 and 23928



CHIH&
5UANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I
A. Introcuction  . . a . . . . . . . . . . . * * *0 *         1
BC  Traf f I t   .  .  .   .  .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  . o.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
C. Investment                                                 2
D. Transport lssues und Objective.  . . . . . . . . . . .     3
E. Bank Group Participation in the Transport Sector  . .      5
F. The Highway Subsector . .. .. . .. . .. .. . . .           8
II.  GUANGDONG PROVINCE TRANSPORT SECTOR .  .  .   . . . . .       15
A. Situation and Economy  ................                   15
B.  Transport Network                                        16
C. Traffic Characteristics and Growth  . , . .    . . . .    17
D. The Vehicle Fleet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        s18
g.  The Trucking Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      18
P. Highway Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
G. Highway Administration  . . . . ...........               19
H.  Planning, Budgeting and linancing . .                    1.......  19
I. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance  . . . . . .    21
J. Staff Training  . .                   . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . .  22
K. HighwayDevelopment  .....   ........... .......    .a    23
Ill.  THE  PROJECT    *  *  *  *  *  *  .  *  *  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
A.  Project Formulation and Preparation . . . . . . . . .    24
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement     24
C* Project Scope   o                 .                       25
D. EnvPromeontal Asse.ent  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
Z.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement  . . . . . . . . . .   35
F. Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .     36
G.  Financing  . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  . 0  37
H. Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     38
I. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . a . . . . . . . .    41
J.  Disbursements  . . . . . . * * . . . .   . . . . .. . .  44
L. Project Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring  . . . .    45
This report is based on the findings of a March 1992 appraisal mission com-
prising Megsrs. Stephen Stares (Tranaport Specialist, Task Manager), Hatim
Hajj (Transport Specialist), William Lane (Environmental Specialist), Alan
Rose (Road Safety Specialist, consultant), Dai Dongchang (Operations Officer)
and Zhang Jianfei (Transport Specialist, consultant), and Md. Ruwani
Jayewardene (Resettlement Specialist, consultant). Poor Reviewers for the
project were Messrs. Gerhard Menckhoff (Transport Specialist), William
Paterson (Highway Pavement Specialist), Nick Anderson (Project Officer), and
Sifus Sgfuasen (Highway Engineer).  The Division Chief is Mr. Daud A1mad and
the Department Director is Mr. Shaild Javed Burki.



- ii -
i.  ECONOMIC EVALU&TIO.  .  . . . e. . . . . . .                  46
A. Main Benefits and Baneficiaries  ......... .              46
B.S   Fo8han-Keiping >R+ghIWy  o o . . e 0 a  6   6 0 0 0 0  47
C. Longgang-Tanxii  Highway  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     50
D.  Road Improvement Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    52
E.  Overall Evaluation  .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  54
Fe Risksoo      ae o. oooooooo9o9oo......                    ........................... 54
V.  AGEMEM    REACHpD MAI RECOMMENDATION  . . . .  . . .    o...  55
TABLES
1.1  China: Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries   .     57
1.2  China: Road and Railroad Network Density in Selected
Countries  ..............................a..  .    & * ............  58
1.3  China: Freight Traffic  .  * .  * . . . .  * .  .   . . . . . . .  59
1.4  China: Passenger Traffic  . . . .. .. . .. . . .   * * o o.*     60
1.5  China: Investment in the Transport Sector (Including
Posts and Telecommmincations) . . .  .  . . . . . .  .  .   ..  61
1.6  China: Transport Investment vs. Economic Output  . . . . . .     62
1.7  China: Highway Design Standards  .     .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
1.8  Chinat Civilian Motor Vehicles   * . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    64
1.9  China: Highway Freight Transport   . . . .    . .  .  . .  . .   65
2.1  Guangdong: Economic Data  . . e a . . . . . . 0 . *  * * 0 *     66
2.2  Guangdong: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1990 . .      67
2.3  Guangdong: Road Network, 1985-91   . . . . . . . .  .  . .   . .  68
2.4  Guangdong: Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1985-90  . . . . .     69
2.5  Guangdong: Length of Highway by ADT, Nationa'. Roads Only   .    70
2.6  Guangdongx  Vehicle Fleet, 1986-91.  . . . . . . . . . C. .      71
2.7  Guangdong: Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks   . .     72
2.8  Guangdongt Road Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . e  . .    73
2.9  Guangdongs Highway Finances   . . . . . . . . . . 9 . . . .      74
2.10 Guangdongs Fuel Prices              ..................           75
2.11 Guangdongt Planned Highway Development in the 8FYP   . . . .     76
3.1  Staff Training Program . . . .    .. . . .. ......a   . .o.      77
3.2  Project Cost Suoary  . . ... . .. . . . . . . . . . .V   . .     80
3.3  Estimated Disbursement Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    81



- ii -
1!LMI (cont'd)
4.1   Recent Traffic Growth on the Existing Foshan-Kaiping Road   .     82
4.2   Recent Traffic Growth on the Existing Longgang-Tanxi Road         83
4.3   Traffic Counts on Longgang-Tanxi, October 16-18, 1991   . . .     84
4.4   Projected Traffic on the Foshan-Raiping Highway   . * . . . r     85
4.5   Projected Traffic on the Longgang-Tanxi Highway   . .  . . . o    86
4.6   Estimated Construction Costs of Major Highways,
Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tamxi. . . . . . . a * . . . o      87
4.7   Average Economic Vehicle Operating Costs by Vehicle Class.
Pavement Type and Condition, and Terrain  .. . . . . . . .      88
4.8   Economic Evaluation without Tolling, Foshan-Kalping Highway       89
4.9   Economic Evaluation with Tolling, Foshan-Kaiping Highway  . .     90
4.10  Economic Evaluation Sensitivity Test with Tolling,
Foshan-Kalping Highay  . . . . . . . . . . . . O * * * * *      91
4.11  Economic Evaluation without Tolling, Longgang-Tanxi Highway       92
4.12  Economic Evaluation with Tolling, Longgang-Tanxi Highway  . .     93
4.13  Economic Evaluation Sensitivity Test with Tolling,
Longgang-TanxiHighway  ....  .    ............   .              94
4.14  Evaluation Sumary end Sensitivity, Foshan-Kaiping and
Longgang-Tanxilighways   .................                      95
4.15  Road Improvment Program: Sumary of the Economic Evaluation
of th First Package  . . . . . .    . * . . . . .     . * . . . e  96
1. Road Improvment Program  . . . . . . ....    . . ..  . . . . . .   .  97
2. Outline Terms of Reference for the Highway Financing Technical
Assistgance      .  o . . .  . . . .    o .  .  .  .  . .  .  .   . . . . . . .    116
3. Environmental AssessOmet, Management Plan, and Monitoring
Summary for the Highway Infrastructure Components of
the  Project  .  .  .  .  a  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  123
4. Resettlement Action Plans 1  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    148
5. Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . * . . . . . .. . . . .    156
6. SupervisionKLssionPlan  . . . .... . . . . . . .. . ..      .    . o . .    161
7. Documents Available In the Project File . . . . . . . . . . . &    163
gu&m
1. Organization of the Guangdong Provincial
Communications Departeant   . . . . . . & . . . . . . . . . .    165
2. Organization of the Gungdong Provincial Highway
Admin4stration Bureau   . ............. .*                       166
3.  Organization of Environmental Protection Agencies . . . . . . .    167
1.  IBRD 24225 - Major Highway Development Program
2. 3IBRD 23927 - Project Roads
3. IBRD 23928 - Foshen-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways



CHINA
QUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJEC-
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1      The transport system in China is characterized by intensive freight
traffic in relation to economic output, heavily suppressed demand, high utili-
zation of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distortions in tariffs
and costs. Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in ton-km per dollar
of GNP is even higher than in the (former) Soviet Union, and is much higher
than in India, Brazil or the United States (Table 1.1). The major reasons
behind China's high freight traffic intensity are a relatively lirge heavy
industry sector, reliance on coal as the major source of energy and a large
volume of other bulk products. In addition, energy efficiency in China is
relatively low, and there is still little preprocessing of raw mateeals
before shipping. On the other hand, the density of China's transport network,
measured both on the basis of geographic area and population, is among the
lowest in the world (Table 1.2).
Fiaure 1.1: INTERNATIONAL COMPARISONS OF LAND TRANSPORT NETWORKS
Ihenatonal Comparisom of Railway Networks  IntrtnaioMl Compans of Road Neworks
1,200'                                 2S00
1Q000                                  3000
SW                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 I0 lL
600                                   20,00
IS=
I0-LX                                  0 i   
I1mp o-LLo^J                                 IS 1-t -^ 
p 1*k e t on) ot pwwwPopiI4I  0 To* k 1m  (kVn  .0qk   i ppelo  inWln pepulefio  0l Road 1mp (kmn) par10 aq k   M
B. Traffic
1.2      Freitht Traffic.  The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traf-
fic, severely taxing the transport system. Total freight traffic has grown at
about 8 percent per annum; port freight traffic also has grown at about 9 per-
cent per aninum; and intercity highway freight traffic has grown at about
16 percent per annum--consistently hi5her than the growth of gross domestic



-2-
production (Table 1.3). These rates wouid have been even higher were it not
for the capacity constrainto which are evident In all modes. Many power
plants and factories have fallen short of their production goals because the
transport syatem has not been able to deliver the needed raw materials in
time. Coal production in Shanxi province, the largest acal producer, contin-
uee to be hsapered by inadequate rail capacity. Rural areas throughout the
country are snort of transport services, both for cron" and for local light
industry. The capacity of navigable waterways has declined due to lack of
investment in upgrading and maintaining navigation channels. At the ports,
lack of modern facilities limits the hanCins in bulk of commodities such as
fertilizers, cement, and grain.
1.3       Passenter Traffic.  The transport system is fur  er taxed by the
marked growth in the demand for passenger travel in tLe last decade, Since
the economic reforms of 1979, passenger trsffic has grown at nearly 10 percent
per annum, illustrating the positive relationship between growth in income and
growth in demand for travel (Table 1.4). Nonetheloos, passenger travel per
capita in China remains very low, in part because of severe capacity con-
straints. Civil aviation traffic, despite growing much faster than any other
mode, is very still limited, and most long-distance journeys are made by rail.
While a slowdown of economic activitiez, and corsequent drop in travel demand,
in 1989/90 temporarily alleviated the congestion In transport facilities,
shortages reemerged as high economic growth resumed.
1.4       Modal S2lit.  Although the railway's share of traffic has declined
ove- the last 10-20 years and such trend is likely to continue as the share of
road traffic grows, unlike in other countries, rail transport still dominates
freight and passenger traffic in China. In 1990, 58 percent of freight (Table
1.3) and 46 percent of passenger traffic (Table 1.4) were moved by rail, and
the rest Was moved by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and
civil aviation. The continued preeminence of the railway is in part due to
the structure of the Chinese economy, wherein heavy industry is prominent and
coal is the dominant enargy source. Coal and the large quantities of other
bulk inputs associated with heavy industry are well-suited for railway trans-
port and constitute the majority of railway traffic In China. In the case of
passenger transport, it is due partly to the virtual absence of private auto-
mobiles, and partly to the limiLed ueG of aviation. Civil aviation's share
was only 3.1 percent for passenger traffic and 0.04 percent for freight traf-
fic.
1.5       As a result of the slowdown in economic activities in 1989/1990,
transport demand, particul. t. of passengers, dropped significantly, and tem-
porarily alleviated the congestion in transport facilities. Preliminary fig-
ures indicate that resumption of high economic growth In 1991 has resulted in
a corresponding surge in transport demand.
C. lrastment
1.6       The Government of China (GOC) has repeatedly pronounced transport
bottlenecks to be one of the most severe constraints to economic growth. How-
ever, transport investment levels have not kept pace with the increased
demands. Thus, while annual investments in the transport sector measured in
current prices surged approximately three times during the period of the



- 3 -
fifth, sixth and seventh five-year plans (1976-90), the share of total public
investmert dedicated to transport remained quit6 steady over this period,
averaging about 13 percent (Table 1.5). Further, investments in transport
infrastructure represented about 1.4 percent of GNP during 1980-909 compared
to 2-3 percent feir countries such as South Korea and Brazil. Transport
investments as a percentage of GNP ,tave declined from a high of 2.4 percent
during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1971-75), to 1.3 per¢cnt during the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1986-93), despite the absolute increase in transport invest-
ments during the period (Table 1.6).  In the future, a substcatial expansion
of investments will be needed if the transport-related constraints to economic
growth are to be removed.
Figure 1.2: TRANSPORT DEMAND AND MODAL SPLIT TRENDS
ChJM: Fnigt Trc                        Ciam hmqc Traf
0Nampmuau0
amS                                     SW_
4200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
60 0
3979  1990  399!  i9m92  399    1984  398S  3996  1987  198 3989  3990 i w am     a 9a am   im   mIU am     am     tm    IOU    IN    t9wo
D. TransDort Issues and Oblectives
1.7       The key issues in the transport sector are:
(a) chronic shortages in the supply of transport services due to under-
investments resulting in severe economic losses due to unmet demand;
(b) excess demands generated by underpricing of transport services and
transport-intensive commodities (particularly coal);
(c)  uneven development of modes (i.e., encessive reliance on rail, rela-
tive neglect of other modes, and the absence of modern, integrated
intermodal services);
(d) lack of modern technology within each mode (obsolescent vehicles,
infrastructure, and operating systems), resultir- 'n high operating
costs and poor services;
I~ ~          .   .   .r      . .  .          



-4 -
(e)  shortages nf human resource skills in specific key ares, particu-
larly in multimodal planning and policy analysis, economic analysis,
and user-centered logistics management; and
(f)  structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to project and company management, quality control and procurement
procedures.
1.8       Achieving a better balance between demand and supply is vital
because chronic s8L rtages of transL,_ t services have been increasingly con-
straining the growth of the Chinese economy. The effects have been seen in
the past in electric power shortages due to lack of coal transport capacity,
but transport constraints pose economic problems well beyond their effects on
the energy bector. The poor quality of tranGport services resulting from
shortages of often outmoded equipment and substandard, often congested infra-
structure, imposes high costs and impedes the integration of markets, which is
one of the major sources of economic efficioncy in modern societies. The
ability :,f China to compete in wozld export markets is also reduced, particu-
larly for light manufacturing and high-value agricultural exports, which
require effictent, flexible, fast door-to-door services.
1.9       Despite recent adjustments, pricing distortions are still a major
problem. Cost analyses conducted du-ring a recent study in Guangdong Province
(GP) (para. 2.3) suggest that, despite substantial tariff increases in 1989,
nationwide long-distance coal transport, for example, is underpriced by as
much as 40 percent relative to long-run incremental costs, thus generating
uneconomic excess demands which clog the transport system. Distortions in the
opposite direction occur in highways and aviation, where tariffs may exceed
long-run incremental costs, thus distorting the choice of modes. So far,
enterprises have lacked appropriate incentives to set tariffs reflecting costs
as they have had only limited financial autonomy, and competition among trans-
port modes has been minimal due to the congested condition of the system, and
to regulatory restrictions.
1.10      China has so far failed to acquire the full spectrum of modern
transport technology. It still relies on the railway to handle much traffic
that could be better served by modern highway vehicles and by the airplane.
Both these modes are modernizing and are steadily increasing their share of
total traffic, in highways for both freight and passengers, and in aviation
especially for the movement of people. There is also some railway traffic
which could be more economically served by coastal shipping. The Ministry of
Railwaye in recent years has significantly increased tariffs for short-haul
commodities, so as tvo encourage diversion of this traffic to other modes and
to concentrate on long-haul bulk commodities, where its comparative advantage
lies.
1.11      Over the long run, China's choice of which modes to expand and by
hou much should be based on an understanding of the differences in costs and
service characteristics of the different modes, on the one hand, and prospec-
tive changes in the structure and level of transport demand, on the other. At
the present time, there is a need for China to train planners and policy ana-
lysts in the analytical tools necessary to analyze those choices or to iden-
tify the instruments required to effect the necessary changes.



-5-
1.12      Transoort Sector Reforms.  The Government has already taken steps to
respond to some of these challenges. Notably, it hass
(a)  made major adjustments in transport tariffs and is conducting cost-
ing studies that will provide the basis for further adjustments. In
addition, it has allowed local authorities more autonomy to plan,
finance, and implement projects which vill expand transport capac-
ity;
(b)  opened transport infrastructure, notably ports and highways, to
participation by private financing. In highways, this will allow
private capital to finance the construction of toll roads and
bridges and to manage their operations;
(c)  allowed private individuals and commercially-oriented collective and
township enterprises to provide passenger and freight transport
services on roads and inland waterways and has encouraged provincial
authorities to develop local railway systems;
(d)  carried out major structural reforms in the organization and manage-
ment of civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased finan-
cial autonomy and accountability, less central government controls
and paving the way for introduction of competitive services;
(e)  reduced operating and capital subsidies for major infrastructure
services, through higher cost-recovery and creation of user-funded
capital construction funds; and
(f)  encouraged introduction of more modern technology in the transport
system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the rail-
way subsector; eihancing container and bulk handling capacity in the
port subsector; improving road pavement design and geometric stan-
dards for the expansion of motorization in the highway subsector;
and increasing the use of computerized data processing and planning
techniques in operations in all modes.
E. Bank Group Particiation in the Transport Sector
1.13      The Bank Group has supported the initiatives of the Government in
the transport sector through projects, sector studies, technical assistance,
and training. Through May 1992, the Bank Group had loaned about $2.9 billion
to China under 22 projects for the transport sector and presently is preparing
several new transport sector projects.
1.14      The railway subsector has received $1,385 million in Bank Group
funding under six projects (Loan 2394-CIA; Loan 2540-CIA; Loan 2678-CRA/Credit
1680-CIA; Loan 2968-CHA; Loan 3060-CIA/Credit 2014-CHA and Loan 3406-CIA).
These projects have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling
equipment; one project is assisting construction of a line in Inner Mongolia.
The most recent project is assisting with rail technology modernization;
development of system-wide plans, planning tools and costing studies; and
adding capacity where it is urgently needed. The audit of the First Railway



- 6 -
Project noted that physical components were well executed and that macropolicy
adjustmento, especially In the area of tariff reforms, and investment priori-
tization were likely to have the highest Impacts these conclusions are being
considered in the railway project under preparation.
1.15      The hilhwa sgubsector has received about $788 million in Bank Group
financing under seven projects (Loan 2539-CIA/Credit 1594-CIA; Loan 2811-CHA/
Credit 1792-CHGA Loan 2951-CKA/Credit 1917-CiA; Loan 2952-CHA; Credit 1984-
CiA; Loan 3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CRA; Loan 3471-CRA). These projects provide
for the construction of high-quality national and provincial roads totalling
about 1,276 km, and the expansion and improvement of some 3,250 km of rural
(lower class provincial, county, village) roads and major bridges. When com-
pleted, saom of these roads will help to provide vital missing links in the
national highway network; others will help to ease severe congestion in parts
of the network or provide access to remote areas. The projects are also
designed to provide foreign technical assistance and training of Chinese per-
sonnel in areas such as supervision and quality control of road construction,
design, and planning. Finally, the projects support studies on key issues of
highway development such as road safety, pavement management, user charges,
and methods of financing the expansion, improvement, and rehabilitation of the
road network. The First Highway Project (Loan 2539-CRA, Credit 1594-CIA) is
essentially completed; a Project Completion Report was issued in May 1992.
1.16      The yorts *ubsector ha received $509 million of Bank Group financ-
ing under seven projects (Loans 2207-CIA, 2689-CIA, 2907-CiA, 2877-CIA, 30C6-
CHAD and 3007-CIA, and Credit 5623-CIA). Most of the loan funds are being
used in Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu, Ningbo, and Xiamen for construc-
tion of terminals, jetties, and berths for handling bulk commodities, general
cargo, and containers, as well as the dredging of navigation channels. Funds
also have been used for training, technical assistance, and various studies
such as port planning, operations management, and containerization. The audit
report of the first port project founa the project successfully completed, on
time and below cost, but recommended developing long-term strategic investment
options and Improving pre-qualification procedures; recommendations on the
former point have been Incorporated in the preparation of the forthcoming port
project in Shanghai, and recommendations on the latter have been taken into
account in the discussion of procurement procedures in transport projects
under preparation. The most recent port project to be financed was the Ship
Waste Disposal Project which involves cofinancing between International Devel-
opment Association (IDA) and the Global Envirozmental Facility (GEF) of
improved ways of disposing of ship effluent.
1.17      The urban tr2ns0ort subsector had the first project (Credit 2296-
CIA, $60 million) approved in September 1991. Intended as a first stage of a
long-term program to upgrade and develop urban infrastructure in Shanghai, the
project will finance capacity increases of key urban links and will assist
Shanghai Metropolitan Government to improve planning, programming, finance and
management of it urban transport system.
1.18      One wultlodal project was approved in 1991 (Loan 3316-CIA/Credit
2226-CIA, $154 million) to improve provincial transport in Jiangsu. While the
main focus of the project is on rehabilitating the provincial road network,
this projoct also includes the first loan to the inland waterway subsector, to



- 7 -
be used to rehabilitate a section of the Grand Canal and expand an important
ship lock.
1.19      The dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has been strengthened both through the project
preparation activities and project-financed studies mentioned above and
through other studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities.
A provincial transport study has been conducted in Guangdong Province
(para. 2.3) to support the design of a new multimodal transport plan in the
province. The Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water trans-
port system, which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the large poten-
tial of the Chinese waterways. In preparation for future highway lending, the
Bank assisted in the 1990 screening of national highway improvement proposals,
aimed to better identify highway construction priorities. Chinese authorities
and the Bank Group are currently preparing or undertaking new transport stud-
ies which will focus on long-term strategies for the country transport system.
These studies include a multiport optimization study to evaluate medium- to
long-term options for developing the deep-water seaport at Ningbo; a study of
strategic issues and the role of ports and shipping in southern China; a mult-
imodal transport study to examine strategic options in developing the trans-
port system for the Yangtze Economic Zone (Shanghai Municipality together with
the provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anhui)j a coal transport study to eval-
uate strategies for alleviating coal delivery shortages through the year 2005;
a railway investment study to optimize railway investments within a system-
wide approach, a railway costing study that will allow the enterprise to
establish cost-based tariffs, and preparation of a Railway Strategy Paper and
a Highway Strategy Paper. In the highways subsector, the Bank and the Minis-
try of Communications (HOC) are discussing preparation of a number of studies
that will cover finance, management and other policy issues in infrastructure
and in road transport services (para. 1.28). Finally, MOC and the Bank are
discussing an HOC Institutional strengthening component for the proposed China
Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project (CRISPP).
1.20      These projects and studies are helping to spur the growth and mod-
ernization of the transport system. However, much more needs to be done to
bring about the changes required to effectively deal with the emerging issues.
In order to significantly alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize
the transport 4ystem, the Government would need, by the year 2000, to take the
followiug measures:
(a)  increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP,
to expand capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up
the backlogs caused by past underinvestment;
(b)  realize the most economical balance of investments among the major
freight transport modes of railway, highway, and water;
(c)  realign further the prices of freight transport services and those
of the major commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to
their true costas
(d)  incrse further the productivity of existing transport assets
through technological modernization and management reforms; and



- 8 -
(e) improve multimodal investment decisions, both across and within
modes, through the uee of analysis and planning tools that more
reliably determine the optimum economic priorities of transport
investments under budget constraints.
1.21      In the past, the Bank has supported the Government in implementing
the above measures mainly by focussing on traffic capacity expansion and oper-
ational efficiency improvement. While such support will remain, the Bank will
broaden its strategy and will assist the Government in the design and imple-
mentation of institutional and sectoral reforms in other areas, including
investment planning, pricing and financing, servicost deregulation, opera-
tional management, and transfer of advanced transport-related technology
through training and provision of up-to-date equipment.
F. The Hithway Subsector
The National Highwav Network and its Utilization
1.22      The highwav network totalled about 1,028,000 km in 1990 and relative
to either population or geographic area, ranked among the smallest in the
world (Fig 1.1). About 30 percent of China's villages have no access to roads
adequate for motor vehicles. Investment in the highway subsector has been
rather modest, at 21 percent of total investment in the transport sector dur-
ing the Seventh Five-Year Plan. Since the early 1980s, the highway system ias
borne an increasing share of traffic. The network is, for the purposes of
design and technical specifications, classified by the HOC as Expressway, and
Classes 1, 2, 3 and 4 for various traffic capacities in different terrain.
The geometric standards now being used for the various road classes is shown
in Table 1.7. For administrative purposes, roads are classified as national,
provincial, county, village, and special purpose.
1.23      China's road network consists mainly of ageing roads with neither
the geometric capacity nor structural strength to carry current traffic. Many
of the roads need upgrading in addition to normal maintenance and rehabilita-
tion. A Bank policy study on road deterioration in developing countries
classified China among the countries with an extensive and obsolete road net-
work in need of modernization to meet the rapid growth in road transport.
China has not neglected road maintenance but the ageing road system and out-
moded maintenance technology have seriously constrained good maintenance prac-
tices. China needs to mobilize domestic and external resources for moderniz-
ing its road system with special emphasis placed on technology transfer,
institutional improvement, and development of skills. There are few absorb-
tive capacity constraints relative to achieving these objectives given China's
decentralized, stable, and financially accountable highway administration
structure.
1.24      The rapid growth of hilhwav traffic stems not only from the coun-
try's rapid economic growth but also from other factors such as the national
policy of shifting short--haul rail transport to road transport and the expan-
sion of the service sector and rural industries. Furthermore, with the
increase in foreign trade, growth in transport demand will be concentrated in
transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands and, with the
containerization of the higher value commodities, most domestic movements for



this foreign trade is expected to go by road. The new economic activities
have generated traffic in excess of what the existing facilities can accommo-
date.  Congestion on  oads resulting from the mix of slow-moving non-motorized
and motorized traffic is a serious problem. Road pavements, which are gener-
ally well maintained, are showing increasing levels of roughness.
1.25      The vehicle fleet totalled some 5.5 million trucks, buses and cars
in 1990, with trucks comprising over 71 percent. Most trucks are of four-ton
capacity with outmoded designs and low fuel efficiency.  Most of the trucks
and buses are gasoline powered. These vehicles were manufactured domestically
and, until recently, the production of trucks was barely sufficient to replace
the retired vehicles, let alone meet growing demand. It was not until the
early 1980s that a large number of modern vehicles was imported and joint-
ventures with foreign manufacturers were started to manufacture trucks; pro-
duction has grown steadily to reach 647,000 units in 1988, but dropped consid-
erably in 1989 and 1990 due to the economic recession in those years. This
production is contributing to the creation of a new fleet, although the older
vehicles still dominate.
1.26      The tractor and motorcycle flepts, at 4.6 million and 4.2 million,
rival the size of the truck and bus fleet. Both tractors and motorcycles
offer a relatively cheap and basic form of transport, but add seriously to
traffic congestion on rural roads (principally tractors) and urban streets
(mainly motorcycles), and are a major cause of road accidents.
1.27      Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly steady over the
last 12 years, with particularly strong growth in small passenger vehicles.
Growth in the tractor and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply, with motor-
cycles showing the strongest growth of all vehicle types (Table 1.8).
1.28      The trucking industry consists of Publiclv-owned trucks operated by
trucking companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway
authorities, and other trucks operated by factories, cooperative organizations
and, recently, private individuals. The relaxation of trucking regulations in
the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul cargo for other factories
and cooperatives and thus promoted competition between public and own-account
trucks. In fact, non-public trucks have absorbed most of the growth in traffic
over the past few years (Table 1.9). However, trucking costs are extremely
high, stemming in part from technological factors (poor roads, outmoded
truck., etc.) but also from the lack of professional common carriers, which is
essential to the development of modern and efficient trucking services. While
market forces are expected to play a more important role in shaping the indus-
try in the future it is necessary to understand the current constraints to
such development and to identify the measures needed to allow the reshaping of
the industry to take place. In order to explore these issues more fully, a
Provincial Trucking Study has been included as a component of the proposed
Henan Provincial Highway Project, and a separate study of the Highway Trucking
Industry is part of the formal sector program for FY93.
1.29      Road safety is a major issue in China's transport system.  A study
completed in 1987 under the First Highway Project found the accident rate to
be 100 deaths per 10,000 vehicles, one of the highest in the world, and cost-
ing the Chinese economy close to $1 billion, annually. The study also identi-



- 10 -
fied essential measures needed to be taken, including improved police accident
reporting; introduction of computer-based accident analysis; identification of
accident causes and dangerous road spots; preparation of guidelines for road
safety design; improved administrative procedures; improved manpower training;
and preparation of a road safety action plan. Addressing comprehensively the
road safety problem has been hampered by the transfer, early in 1988, of
responsibility for highway safety matters from the HOC and the provincial
Communications Departments to the Ministry of Public Security and its provin-
cial units. This decision has created administrative barriers difficult to
overcome and, as a result, little progress has been achieved in improving road
safety. However, a Road Safety Pilot Program is planned as part of this proj-
ect to address some of the key highway design issues involved in road safety
conscious design, and to train highway engineers in the Province (para. 3.30).
Highway Administration. Plannina and Finance
1.30      The provincial governments, through the Highways Bureaus of the
Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs), are responsible for the administra-
tion of the hiahway network. Arrangements for administration vary among prov-
inces; in the more decentralized ones, the county and municipal governments
perform some administrative and all of the operational functions relating to
the highway network. The central government's MOC provides general policy
guidance and support to the PTDs through its nationwide policies and regula-
tions, specifying design and construction standards. HOC also provides spe-
cialized manpower for planning and design, and also construction equipment for
major provincial civil works, if nseded. However, the PTDs are financially
independent of HOC and carry out all the road planning, construction, mainte-
nasce, and administration of roads and waterway, in the provinces. MOC is
more heavily involved only in some large projects which are considered of
national importance and for which  COC shares part of the financial burdea.
1.31     While the provinces manage the country's highway network, HOC is
responsible for 2lanning and investment strategies for the development of the
National HiRhwaY System. A reclassification of the country's road network in
1981. led to the designation of key interprovincial links as National Highways.
More recently, HOC has been evolving a long-term strategy for the systematic
upgrading of the national system in key corridors over a 30-year planning
horizon. The system, comprising twelve major routes, would connect all the
provincial capitals and cities with population exceeding 500,000; route selec-
tion would generally be based on the potential for maximizing industrial pro-
duction in the corridors selected for the initial, minimum-length network (see
Map IBRD 24225). Construction of 25,000 km of high standard, access-con-
trolled roads is epected to be completed by 2025. Priority for early con-
struction is being given to those routes already congested and hindering eco-
nomic activity. By the end of 1991, some 500 km of the system had been built,
and a total of 4,000 km is envisaged to be completed by the end of the Eighth
Five-Year Plan (8FYP) In 1995. The proavincial governments are responsible for
route location, engineering design, construction, operation and maintenance of
the national highway system.
1.32      The system for fundina hiahwav construction and main  nance is well
established through the country under the guidance of MOC, althr.gh there are
differences between provinces according to local needs and circumstances. The



- 11 -
main revenues are generated by the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF), levied on the
revenue of freight and passenger transport companies and on the capacity of
aw-accoUnt vehicles. These are levied by the provinces who retain the major-
ity of the monies after remitting a proportion to Central Goveranient agencies
(soe pera 2.20). The HOC also directly receives revenues from the Added Vehi-
cle Purchase Feet a supplementary earmarked tax on vehicle imports and sales,
and use  these funds, which currently reach about Y 2 billion/year, to con-
tribute financtng for: (a) the roads inciuded In the national highway network,
providing a higher share of financing for the poorer, hinterland provinces and
a lower share for the richer, coastal provinces, and (b) construction or reha-
bilitation of rural roads located In poverty-stricken areas. According to a
recent study by MOC, if existing sources for funding both national and provin-
cial roads are not lmproved, by the year 2000 they will provide 30 percent
leos than needed to develop the highway system in line with the growth in
demand. The Issue is especially critical in the coastal provinces with the
fastest economic growth, where the road system are experiencing the highest
levels of congeotion and deterioration.
1.33      Over recont years, HOC has embarked on two important activities
aimed to Improve highway planning and investment decisions:
(a)  a Road Data Bank  IRDB) which would contain all important road infor-
mation at the national, provincial and county level, with a view to
provide the bais for improving the economic rationale for decisions
on expansion, rehabilitation, strengthening and maintenance of the
road networks. The HOC Beijing Highway Planning and Design Insti-
tute (HPDI) has prepared a standard format for the data to be input
in the data bank and is setting guidelines for the provinces so that
a uniform and fully integrated nationwide system can be established;
.-A
(b) a Pavement Hanamement System (VHS), to Improve decision-making
regarding pavement design and maintenance, and their economically
appropriate standards, including optimal timing. The HOC Beijing
Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI) has taken the lead in
this work, investigating alternative PHS systems available in the
Western nations and adapting them to Chinese needs.
1.34      After several years of teoting alternative systems, HOC has now
developed a standard PMS/RDB system which they plan to Implement in several
provinces, starting with those already receiving, or about to receive, assis-
tance under Bank-financed highway projects Including Shandong, Shaanxl,
Jiangxi, Sichuan, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Henan and Guangdong. Bank assistance to
the RDB/PHS program in China started with the Highway I Project (Loan 2539-
CMA/Credit 1194-CRA) and has been a feature of all Bank-financed highway proj-
ects since then.
1.35      In addition to its role In planning and financing,  HOC serves an
important function as coordinator for the construction of priority sections of
the national highway notwork; in early 1990, HOC established a Technical Coor-
dinating Unit (TCU) to maintain close contact with the provinces executing
projects financed by the World Bank or other external financiers. TCU's main
focue ha been to provide guidance to the project executing agencies and to



- 12 -
coordinate staff training and the development of the RDB and PMS at the pro-
vincial level.
1.36      In summary, despite government efforts to improve the highway system
and its utilization and administration, much more is needed to modernize the
system and allow it to effectively meet the increasing demands placed on road
transport, both in improving physical capacity and the management of the sec-
tor. The key areas on which the government should focus attention ror
improvement through institutional reforms and training are:
(a) cost recovery and financing, to provide the necessary resources to
meet increasing financing needs for maintenance and operations and
encourage an efficient use of the highway system;
(b) highway planning and investment strategies, to better identify
short- and long-term highway development priorities;
(c) role of the HOC, to adapt it to be consistent with the rapid admin-
istrative decentralization taking place in the management and
finance of highway development and maintenance, and strengthen its
capacities in the reformed mandate;
(d) preparation of feasibility studies using modern highway analytical
techniques, and based on data and relationships reflecting condi-
tions on China's highways;
(e) operations of the road user services industry, both freight and
passengers, to reduce costs and improve quality of services, through
promotion of competition, modern technology and better management;
and
(f) the road construction industry, to improve management, understanding
and application of contract conditions, modernize equipment, and
clarify client, contractor and supervision relationships.
The Bank's Experience and Strateat in Highwa_s
1.37      Of the seven Bank-financed highway projects (para. 1.15) only the
first Highway Project has been completed. The project, which was designed to
construct and Improve 66 segments of the national (7 segments) and the provin-
cial/county road networks in nine provinces achieved its original objectives
and clearly demonstrated the benefits accruing from improved accessibility to
communities deprived of adequate transport infrastructure in economically less
developed regions. Economic activity i1 the area of influence of most project
roads surged and income levels increased noticeably. Furthermore, the Bank's
involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in the contracting for
road works, in preference to force account operations, even for smaller civil
works contracts, as well as the merits of supervision of construction by spe-
cially assigned units.
1.38      Highways together with port projects constitute the Bank's first
major involvement with large civil works in China. As could be expected,
introduction of international competitive bidding (ICB) has been difficult,



_ 13 -
particularly as each project involves a new implementing agency. Despite
these difficulties, which have led to most civil work components in highways
projects being behind appraisal schedule, much progress has been achieved and
the concept of competitive bidding is now generally accepted. These projects
have allowed to gain an understanding of the weaknesses in the capacity and
experience of the local contracting industry and, similarly, of the executing
agencies in contract administration. These lessons are being used in the
preparation of new projects addressing these issues, particularly strengthen-
ing prequalification of contractors to avoid selection of unqualified contrac-
tors and strengthening arrangements for construction supervision. The Bank's
involvement has assisted the line ministry and the provincee' transport
departments to develop greater awareness of the need for systematic planning
through the development of the RDB and PMS; the Bank has also helped in the
transfer of technology through the supply of equipment for road research and
road maintenance and through broad basei training programs covering highway
technology and advanced management practices.
1.39      The Bank's strategv for future hiahwav lendins is to continue to
support institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at the moderniza-
tion of the highway system and its management. Preparation of a Highway Stra-
tegy Paper is planned as part of the formal sector work program for FY93 which
will consolidate these efforts and serve as a basis for the continuing dia-
logue with MOC. An institutional strengthening project is also in preparation
with a significant component to assist MOC (para. 1.19).
1.40      While some institutional and sector components such as staff train-
ing and safety (when administrative barriers can be overcome) will normally be
included in every project, specific issies such as road financing, the effi-
ciency and quality of road freight and passenger services, the construction
industry and other issues identified during the Bank's dialogue with GOC, will
be addressed selectively in individual provincial projects through studies,
pilot reforms or other actions, with a view to formulating recommendations
that may also serve other provinces. During the next three to five years, the
projects' investment components will continue to focus on high priority links
of the national highway system, and to support the development of the provin-
cial road networks. The strategy also envisages continued close collaboration
with MOC, assisting it through economic and sector studies and through lending
operations, to adapt to the evolving needs of the Chinese economy.
1.41      Specifically, the Bank's strategy for forthcoming highway projects
comprises addressing the foll-wing issuess
(a)  Issues to be addressed in all highwav prolects
(i) sound management of the existing highway network, including
adequate provision for rehabilitation and maintenance, priori-
tized according to economic analysis;
(ii)  development of high standard, limited-access highways in spe-
cific corridors of proven high demand and inadequate existing
capacity;



- 14 -
(iii) satisfactory compliance with onvirormental and resettlement
requirements; and
(iv) promotion of road safety.
(b)  Issues to be addressed in o2cific ,rovinclal hiLav orolect
(i) identification of a structure for adequate road user charges in
order to mobilize the necessary resources for road development
and equitably recover from users the costs of the highway sys-
tem. A study would be conducted under this proposed highway
project in Guangdong Province, building on the work already
undertaken by HOC with Bank as6istance on the "Road Punding
Study" (under Loan 2811-CHA/Credit 1792-CiA);
(ii) promotion of adequate road freight services, including encour-
agement to private, collective and township enterprises to
enter the business as part of the reform of the transport sect
tor. A study at the provincial level would be carried out
under tba proposed Henan Provincial Highway Project, end a
complement;.iy study of trucking at the national level would be
conducted under the Beak's transport sector program;
(iii) a study would be conducted under the proposed highway project
in Fujian Province regarding the need to upgrade the capacity
and effectiveness of the highway construction Industry. This
study would be followed by a pilot program under the project
for the provincial construction industry; and
(iv) integration of road transport serviess with other modes, par-
ticularly in the field of containerization, and the establish-
ment of modern, integrated multimodal services. Selection of a
highway project addressing this is still to be determined.



_ 15 -
It. GUANGDONG PROVINCE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Situation and Economy
2.1       GP is located on the South China Sea at the southeastern corner of
the People'a Republic of China (see Map IBRD 23927). The Province covers an
area of 178,000 kma, excluding the many small islands along the rugged 3,370
km coast line. More than three fourths of the total land area is mountainous
or hilly; the only extensive plain areas are located in the central Pearl
River Delta and the region around the eastern port uity of Shantou. Long-
distance transport is obstructed by mountain ranges: the Nanling Mountains in
the north, the Yunkaida Mountains in the west, and the Lianhua Mountains in,
the east. Most of GP has a subtropical climate with tropical monsoons. Dur-
ing the rainy season between April and September, floods and typhoons can
often disrupt ports and interfere with land transport and coastal shipping
activities.
2.2       The province has a population of 63 million and is currently enjoy-
ing a period of extremely rapid economic growth. While Guangdong lacks raw
materials and energy sources, its proximity to Hong Kong, entrepreneurial
propensities, and extensive ties with overseas Chinese, combined with having
three of the five Special Economic Zones (SEZ) of Southern China--Shenzheni
Zhuhai and Shantou--have placed Guangdong at the cutting edge of the national
export-led development strategy, enabling it to supplant Shanghai as China's
leading export center. Annual growth in Gross Output Value of Agriculture and
Industry (GCOVAI) has averaged nearly 20 percent per year since 1980, and
recent data indicate no slackening in this pace (Table 2.1). However, the
growth has not been evenly distributed: the central Pearl River Delta has
benefited most and the more remote eastern, western and inland regions have
gainest much less (Figure 2.1). One of the objectives of this project is to
improve access to these less developed regions. Overall, Guangdong ranks as
the third richest province in China in terms of per capita GOVAI after Jiangsu
and Zhejiang but no other province has such concentrations of wealth as found
in the Pearl River Delta.
2.3       Rapid development has led to an increasingly taut situation in the
transport and energy sectors. To address transport issues in a systematic
mannar, and to assess the relative priorities of competing demands, the Bank
collaborated with the Beijing Institute of Comprehensive Transport and the
Guangdong Provincial Planning Commission in a Comprehensive Transport Study
(GPCTS) J/ issued in June 1991. A major conclusion from the CTS was that
there had been relatively limited exploitation in China of the two most impor-
tant 20th century innovations in transportation technology: mi-dern highway and
aviation systems. In particular, CTS recommended that the ro-e of the highway
sector must expand in order to satisfy the burgeoning demand for faster, more
flexible transport stemming from the growth of exports and light industry, and
associated with rising incomes.
1/   Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transpo-t Study, Transportation Divi-
sion, Country Department III, Asia Regional Office, World Bank, June 7,
1991.



- 16 -
Figure 2.1s DISTRIBUTION OF PER CAPITA GOVIA BY COUNTY, 1990
GOVIA: Gross Output Value of Industry
and Agriculture, 1980 Prices
(I99. prices approximately - 1080 prices x 1.S2)
GOVIA per Capita (Yuan)
L 385 to 1000   5000 to 40000
1000 to 3000  F] Missing
* 3000 to 5000
B.   TransRort Network
2.4      GP is served by railways, highways, coastal shipping routes, inland
waterways, civil aviation, and a pipeline. loads and inland waterways are the
principal modes for short-haul transport, and railways and coastal shipping
are the principal modes for interprovincial transport. Statistics on the
networks of highways, railways and inland waterways are shown in Table 2.2.
2.5      The Guangdong railway network is relatively limited compared to that
of other provinces. The five main lines connect the ports of Huangpu,
Guangzhou and Z1gnjiang with the rest of the country, and alos  serve As an
export link to Hong Kong. There are nine local lines, but the only one of any
significance is the Meilong Railway in the East which was built in 1971 to
serve a coal mine but now carries general freight and passengers. The rail
network continues to expand, with double tracking and electrification of the
Guangzhou-Shenzhen and Henyang-Guangzhou lines, and the planned construction
of the Guangzhou-Meizhou-Shantou lines with Asian Development Bank assistance.
2.6      Coastal shignina benefits from the access provided by the long
coastline and Pearl River <tuary to all the economically active areas of the



- 17 -
province. The province contains 13 seaports, 4 of which are classed by the
MOC ae major. The international seaport of Hong Kcng is located at the heart
of the system at the mouth of the Pearl River and 4i the conduit for much of
China's international tradel this is now undergoing a major expansion. Apart
from three ports in the region--Hong Kong, the deep water port at Zhanj'ang,
and the new port being developed at Yantian--the capacity of the major sea-
ports is limited by the depth of approach channels or water depth alongside
berths.
2.7       The inlalnd waterway  system is based on the Pearl River (Zhu Jiang)
which has three main tributaries which are navigable to some extent; the Xi
Jiang in the west which penetrates all the way into Guangxi Province, the Bei
Jiang in the north, and the Dong Jiang in the east. The Pearl River Delta
contains a dense network of canals ind channels stretching 110 km from north
to south, and 90 km from east to west.
2.8       The highway network is extensive, with a density well above the
national averago, and provides the only means of transport for large areas of
the province. Highway transport is growing rapidly in importance, and the
vehicle population per capita is among the highest in the nation, considerably
above other rapidly developing provinces such as Jiangsu and Zhejiang. The
classified road network grew in length by just over 10 percent in the nine
years from 1981 to 1991, including an increase in Class 2 Highways from about
80 to 1,900 km, and the construction of 23 km of expressway and 210 km of
Class 1 Highways (Table 2.3). However, continued highway upgrading is neces-
sary to accommodate the growing voluxe and weight of modern traffic; the GPCTS
(para. 2.3) identified some 9,000 km of existing highway as requiring atten-
tion. The administrative classification of the road system in 1991 was as
follows:
km    gercent
National            4,049           7
Provincial          8,901          16
County             13,94S         26
Village            28,3')         51
Special                99           -
Total        55.307         100
C. Traffic Characteristics and Growth
2.9       Traffic growth in the five years 1985-90 Was strong (Table 2.4).
Freight traffic grew at over 10 percent per year, with the strongest growth in
water transport and highways. Water transport dominates freight transport,
with rail carrying a much smaller proportion of traffic than elsewhere in
China. Passenger transport also grow at well over 10 percent per year, with
the strongest growth in highway transport at 15 percent per year. By 1990,
highways accounted for 90 percent of all passenger movements, and 75 percent
of passenger-km.



- 18 -
2.10      The highway traffic growth rates are reflected in the changes in
traffic densities on the some 4,000 km of National Roads in the province
(Table 2 5). In 1986, about 42 percent of the National Road network carried
less than 2,000 motor vehicles per day (mvpd), and leos than 2 percent of the
network carried more than 10,000 mvpd. By 1991, the lightly trafficked sec-
tions carrying less than 2,000 mvpd had shrunk to just 11 percent of the net-
work, while the length of road carrying over 10,000 mvpd had increased by over
twenty times, accounting for one third of the network. These changes are
confirmed by the traffic counts in the Foshan-Raiping and Shenzhen-Shantou
corridors which show similar rapid growth trends (paras. 4.7 and 4.22).  The
growth in highway traffic can be attributed to several factors: the rapid
expano9 n of the economy, in particular the export economy focussed on trans-
port to and from Hong Kong; the diversion of shorter distance traffic from
other modes due to the improved highway network and increases in rail tariffs;
a growing vehicle fleet; and liberalization of trucking services in the early
1980..
D.  The Vehicle Eleet
2.11      The total vehicle fleet more than doubled In the five year. between
1986 and 1991, for an average growth rate of 19 percent per year (Table 2.6).
The fleets of large trucks and buses, and agricultural tractors, grew by
9-11 percent per year. The car fleet, which includes light vans and pickups,
grew at 19 percent per year, reflecting the growth In prosperity and also the
light-vehicle needs of the growing number of smaller enterprise, in the econ-
omy. The most rapid growth of all was in the motorcycle fleet which regis-
tered an average growth of 28 percent per year, with 1991 showing a 30 percent
increase from 1990, reflecting the desire for personal mobility now made
affordable through growing prosperity. This extremely rapid growth poses
problems to transport planners in the larger cities, In particular the provin-
cial capital of Guangzhou.
E. The Truckina Industry
2.12      The trucking Industry in GP has followed nationwide trends in that
an increasing volume of freight is being carried by own-account operators--
enterprises, collectives and private individuals--while the tonnage carried by
the public transport companies affiliated to the Provincial Transport Depart-
ment hss dropped, both in total tonnage and as a share of this subsector. The
proportion of the total tonnage taken by the Provincial Transport Department
was already low in 1985 at 7.3 percent, but this share dropped to just 5 per-
cent by 1991 (Table 2.7). The haul length by all trucking operations
increased In the period by 21 percent (35 percent in the public trucking sec-
tor), reflecting an expansion of trucking from Its oarlier local pick up and
delivery role, to include more long distance movemets. The liberalization of
the Trucking Regulations in the early 1980a has clearly spurred the develop-
ment of highway freight services in the province, and this is placing pressure
on the capacity of the highway system to absorb the traffic.
P. Hi_hwav Safety
2.13      Road safety is a serious problem in GP, as elsewhere in China.  In
1991 alone, 4,400 persons were killed and 16,900 persons were crippled or



- 19 -
injured in the 30,300 accidents reported to the police in that year (Table
2.8). While concern about road safety is high, Guangdong Provincial Communi-
cations Department (GPCD) has had less scope for action following the reorga-
nization of responsibility for road safety matters in China in 1988 (para.
1.29). Most responsibility for matters affecting road safety now lies with
the Public Security Bureau (PSB), including that for vehicle inspection,
driver training, propaganda on safety, im3osition of fineos, driver licensing,
enforcement of traffic laws, related traffic management, highway patrols and
all aspects of accident control, reporting, investigation and research. How-
ever, GPCD retains responsibility for all matters concerning highway design
and on this basis a Road Safetv Pilot Proaram has been prepared to be financed
under the project (para. 3.30).
0. Highway Administration
2.14      The GPCD controls all highway ar.d waterway transport undertakings in
the province (Chart 1), and is responsible to the Provincial Government for
planning, budgeting and financing. GPCD conforms to the general transport
policy and technical guidelines issued by HOC.
2.15      The administration of the road network in the province takes place
at three levels: (a) GPCD, (b) the municipal and county highway bureaus and
(c) local highway units of the county highway bureaus. GPCD administers the
provincial highways through Guangdong Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
(GPHAB), and the municipal and county transport bureaus administer local high-
ways and village ro&xds. GPHAB is responsible for all highway matters (apstn
.r_.m the expressway program, see below), including construction and mainte-
nance, and receives profes;ional and technical guidance from the Engineering
Administration Department of HOC. It has a staff of 214 (Chart 2). The 19
municipal and prefectural highway bureaus and the 73 county bureaus in the
province have a total staff of about 63,000 of which technical personnel com-
prise about 12 percent.
2.16      The Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPFC) is a department-
level institution which reports directly to GPCD and is responsible for the
organization, direction, coordination, planning, design, construction, super-
vision, operationg and maintenance of expressway projects in the province.
Also, it is responsible for raising construction funds, including collection
of tolls on these expressways, and paying back bank loans. It currently has a
staff of about 7229 of whom 100 are in the headquarters and the rest are
spread over the 7 companies controlled by it (4 expressway companies, 1 bridge
company--Shantou Bay Bridge, 1 development company, and 1 highway equipment
renting company) (Chart 1).
H. Planning. Budgetina and Financing
2.17      Planninz.  GPCD has overall responsibility for planning, constrve-
tion, operations and maintenance of the provincial highway network. The
municipalities and county authorities have considerable autonomy in planning
smaller road investments, but this is subject to the approval of GPCD, largely
as a formality. Each administrative group prepares Investment plans for the
highway network under its jurisdiction and submits them to the planning divi-
sion of GPCD by September of each year for the next year's plan starting



- 20 -
January 1. Before the end of November, GPCD approves the next year's plan for
each county or local authority concerned. Similarly, using inputs from lower
level administrative groups, GPCD prepares the five-year road development plan
reflecting national or provincial development policy guidelines and objectives
for the plan period. After review and approval by the Guangdong Provincial
Planning Commission (GPPC), the plans are im'lemented.
2.18      Budaetina.  In common with other provincial communications depart-
ments in China, GPCD's planning division adopts a balanced budget policy. The
proposed highway expenditures are balanced against the revenues earmarked for
highway development; the amount of investment approved for each year is
closely related to the revenues expected for the same year.
2.19      Financing.  Highway funding sources and expenditures are summarized
in Table 2.9. Data for 1990 are displayed in Figure 2.2.
Figure 2.2: HIGHWAY REVENUES MD EXPENDITURES IN 1990
URBAN ACCES8
ROAD MAINTENANCE               R.
BRIDGE CONSTR.
EXPREGSVM TOLLS                                        EXPRESSVW
OTHER TOLLSCOSR
OTHER
PASS FARE          ~~~~~CO1N1TRUCTION      OER"EAD AND
SURCHARGES                                           OTHER
LOANS
LOTHER  CONTRIBUTIOS   GRANTSKOAN REPMENTS
L,OCAL CONTRIDUTIONS    GRANTS  ROUTINE MAINTENANCE  PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
REVENUES                  EXPENDITURES
2.20      Funding for highway construction and maintenance comes from many
sources, but by far the largest source is the RMF which provided nearly
60 percent of all highway funding for the province in 1990. This fee is col-
lected by GPCD from motor vehicles throughout the province, but the province
retains only about 72 percent for its own use. The other revenues from RNP
are distributed as follows: 15 percent to the Ministry of Finance Energy and
Communications Fund; 10 percent to the SPC controlled Budget Adjustment Fund;
and 2.63 percent to the Public Security Bureau (for their highway patrol and
administrative operations). The RMF retained by Guangdong Province increased
from about Y 146 million in 1985 to Y 1,537 million in 1990.
2.21      The fee rates for the RM! are determined by GPCD subject to approval
by both the Provincial and Central Governments. Previously, the RNF was
levied as a percentage of the financial turnover of transport companies, but
with the rise in the number of private and own-account operated vehicles, RMF
is now mostly charged per licensed vehicle. The charging scale is linear
based on vehicle capacity, and significant discounts are also offered to
larger vehicles. Neither the linear charging scale nor the discounts for
larbe vehicles are well suited to Guangdong's highway financing needs; modern



- 21 -
practice would favor higher fees for the heavier vehicles which tend to cause
more than proportionately greater pavement damage. This would be reviewed
under the project as part of the highway financing technical assistance.
2.22      The province also raises highway funds by other transport user char-
gee, including a passenger tariff surcharge (Y 450 million in 1990): tolls on
expressways (Y 22 million), and tolls on other bridges and highways (Y 109
million). These sources of funding have been developed since the mid-1980s
and by 1990 provided 15 percent of all revenues.
2.23      Local communities contribute to road funding in their area, and
these contributions, together with donations from overseas Chinese, added
Y 450 million to revenues in 1990, or 17 percent of the total. Grants from
the Central and Provincial Government added a further Y 77 million, or 3 per-
cent; these were derived mostly from the Added Vehicle Purchase Fee, a supple-
mentary earmarked tax on vehicle purchases. Finally, the province used domes-
tic and foreign loans; these accounted for Y 150 million, or 6 percent, of the
1990 funding.
2.24      In addition to the road user charges discussed above, substantial
fuel taxes are levied, but these accrue to general revenues and are not allo-
cated to highway funding. Fuel taxes currently amount to 43 percent of the
base price of gasolines and 13 percent of the base price of diesel fuels.
Total fuel prices, including taxes, are significantly higher thar. interna-
tional market prices, both for planned allocations and for open market con-
sumption (Table 2.10),
2.25      A detailed review of highway financing would be a key technical
assistance task under the project, leading to a revised financing structure
and associated implementation plan (para. 3.26).
I. Engineerinx. Construction and Maintenance
2.26      Enuineerint.  Road and bridge projects are designed by the planning
and design institutes at the provincial, prefectural and county levels. The
Guangdong Provincial Highway Survey and Design Institute (GPHDI) is qualified
for Class I roads and is responsible for all major road, bridge and tunnel
projects. It carries out most of the work itself but also uses the services
of HOC institutes outside the province on a contract basis. Computar-aided
design methods are used for engineering estimates, costs and structural compu-
tations, but most of the drafting work is done manually. On the proposed
project, GPHDI undertook the design of the Foshan-Kaiping Highway and HOC No.1
Highway Design Institute located at Xian carried out the design of the
Shenzhen-Shantou Highway on a contract basis. The design institutes at the
municipal and county levels are responsible for preparing highway designs for
provincial and national roads in the province, including those included in the
Road Improvement Program component under the proposed project. These design
institutes are, in general, competent and have experienced personnel for car-
rying out highway design tasks.
2.27      Construction Sunervision.  Construction of roads and bridges is
supervised by personnel from county, city and prefectural highway units.
GPCD's Quality Control Center is responsible for quality testing and overall



- 22 -
oupervision of all transport projects in the province. The Guangdong Trans-
port Scientific Research Institute has been qualified and approved by MOC to
carry out the supervision of higher class highways. Generally, these units
have competent personnel to supervise the works adequately.
2.28      Construction. GPCD's Highway Engineering Division is responsible
for the construction of key highway projects in the province. The municipal
and county highway bureaus have their own construction units to carry out
construction of minor projects within their administrative districts. How-
ever, in recent years competitive bidding has been introduced in the province,
mainly a result of the State Planning Commission (SPC) directive that all
major civil works be awarded after competitive bidding. This led to the rapid
growth of the domestic construction industry. Many of the larger provincial
and urban construction bureaus, railway engineering units, and metallurgy
engineering units are being reorganized into financially independent contract-
ing companies and have been awarded contracts either individually or as part-
ners in joint ventures on previous Bank-financed highway projects.
2.29      Maintenance.  Highway maintenance is carried out by county highway
bureaus under the control of municipal authorities. Maintenance is generally
organized and carried out well, but mainly through labor-intensive operations.
Expenditures for periodic and routine maintenance increased substantially
during the 1980s, at an annual rata of 18 percent. However, as a percentage
of total expenditures for highway purposes in Guangdong, they have decreased
from about 30 percent during the early 1980s to less than 15 percent currently
(Table 2.9). During this period, traffic has been increasing rapidly, and the
number, size, and Intensity of usage of trucks has increased. While increased
expenditures for road upgrading and new construction have offset some of the
immediate needs for heavy maintenance, there are signs of an increasing back-
log of maintenance work. GPCD is aware of this problem and is considering
waye of allocating more resources to this task; this issue will also be
addressed by the highway financing technical assistance under the proposed
project.
2.30      Guangdong Province has been a pioneer in China of the RDB and PMS,
and their methods have been incorporated in the National RDB/PMS systems now
being promoted by HOC.  The system is in the early stages of implementation,
but ic expected to be the key tool for projecting and programming maintenance
needs. The project would assist the further development of the RDB/PMS plan-
ning tool, and would also provide direct assistance to maintenance operations
through training and equipment.
J. Staff Trasin2n
2.31      The staff of GPCD, prefectural, city and county highway departments
are, in general, professionally competent, but many have not been exposed to
new technology and therefore often use outmoded work methods and equipment.
GPCD staff have bonefitted from the training done by HOC and the provincial
training Institutes. The proposed project would support the training efforts
of GPCD by providing training to personnel of OPHAB (and its branches in the
prefectures, cities and counties) and GPFC in the fields of highway planning,
design, construction, maintenance and operation.



- 23 -
K. i1bhrav hralWsant
2.32      The details of the highway network expansion over the last ten
years, and the financing required to do this, are set out in Tables 2.3 and
2.9. In total, the highway network was expanded by 5,400 km and substantially
upgraded for a total ivestment of about Y 9.4 billion.
2.33      The highway development plans of Guangdong set goals for three dif-
ferent time horizons long term up to 20 years, medium term up to 10 years,
and short term up to 5 years, the latter covering implementation of the SFYP
during the period 1991-95. The broad long term and medium term goals are as
follows:
(a)  Lone-Term RHiabWa  D   mvlopment (to 2010)
Complete a provincial high class road network (limited access, motor
vehicle only) with ton principal routes and a total route distance
of 2,500 km (see Map IBRD 23927). The provincial capital of
Guangzhou would li at the hub of this high class road system.
(b) Medium-Team Hiahwa Develoiment (to. 2000)
Maintain and upgrade the existing trunk road network (National and
Provincial Highway.) and develop and maintain the County and Village
road.. It Is aimed to extend the total road network from 55,000 km
to 62,000 3m In the period, an Increase of 7,000 km of which 1,000
km are intended to be additions to the high class road system.
(c) Short-Term Nimhwav Develonmont (APYP to 1996)
The short-term plens for highway development are embodied in the
SPYP for the proviwce. Specific projects are included to complete
about 450 km of high class highway (including 229 km planned under
thi, project), 5,500 km of national and provincial highway upgrad-
ing, the construction of 2,500 km of rural penetrations roads, and
5,000 km of gravel road paving (Table 2.11). The province plan to
Invest as much In the 81P as in the previous two FYP? combined.



- 24 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Pro1ect Formulatio.n and Preparation
3.1       In the late 1980s, the Bank started a collaboration with the Beijing
Institute of Comprehensive Transport and the GPPC in a detailed study of the
transport needs of Guangdong province (pars. 2.3). The Study report was
issued in June 1991 and identified the highway sector as in need of urgent
attention.
3.2       As part of a comprehensive road development program initiated under
the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) and continued under the 8FYP (1991-95),
the PRC requested the Bank's contintud assistance for the highway subsector.
A list of highway proposals Was submitted to the Bank by HOC and this formed
the basis for a Bank Highway Screening Mission undertaken jointly with the SPC
and HOC during February and March 1990. The Screening Mission visited several
provinces to make a preliminary assessment of nine highway proposals in terms
of their relative economic priorities and status of preparation. Two of the
nine highways were located in GP; the Screening Mission concluded that they
were among the highest priority of the screened projects in terms of the
expected economic internal and first year rates of return, and should form the
basis for a provincial highway project for Bank financing.
3.3       The proposed project Was prepared under the direction of Guangdong
Provincial Communications Department (GPCD) with the guidance of GPPC, SPC and
MOC. The Bank's project identification mission visited GP in November 1989
with subsequent Bank missions working closely vith SPC, MOC, GPPC and GPCD to
formulate the scope of the project; appraisal vas in March 1992.
B. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4       The proposed project has the following objectives:
(a) to relieve congestion in two major traffic corridors by constructing
parallel highways on new alignments to serve long distance traffic;
(b) to improve other national and provincial roads carrying substantial
volumes of traffic;
(c) to promote the transfer of highway technology through training and
the provision of equipment;
(d) to further develop institutional capability in highway design, plan-
ning and prioritization; and
(e) to support reforms of the highway financing system.
3.5       These objectives are consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy
for the highway sector in China (para. 1.39). Although China has a fundamen-
tally sound approach to highway development, it still lacks experience in the
conetruction of high class, limited-access, highways which are needed to elim-
inate bottlenecks in economically more developed corridors, and would also



- 25 -
benefit from technological improvements in the construction of lower level
roads. The Bank's assistance in these areas is well placed, particularly when
combined with its catalytic role in promoting greater investment for rural
Infrastructure, as well as policy changes, institutional development and tech-
nology transfer.
C. Pro1ect Scope
3.6       The scope of the project includes:
(a)  construction of the 80 km Foshan-Kaiping Highway and the 146 km
Longgang-Tanxi Highway to four-lane divided, access-controlled stan-
dard, including service facilities and the supply and installation
of electrical, electronic and mechanical equipment for tolling,
traffic monitoring, telecommunication and lighting;
(b)  a Road Improvement Program (RIP) for the upgrading and rehabilita-
tion of about 1,260 km of national and provincial highways in the
province;
(c) construction supervision for the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Taaxi
Highways and the RIP components;
014 tCAI     aWsaiat&Ce to p&raa   e yaLau for LUas 'COLOUw1 nUd
turing of the highway financing system in the province, together
with an action plan for implementation;
(e)  a Road Safety Pilot Program (RSPP) to provide equipment and training
to promote road-safety-conscious highway design;
(f)  further development and application of the Provincial RDB and PMS;
(g)  staff training programs covering all aspects of highway planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance; and
(h)  purchase of equipment fors
(i) control of construction quality and for monitoring of the envi-
ronment during construction of the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-
Tanxi Highways;
(ii) operation and maintenance of the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-
Tenxi Highways;
(iii)  support for the RDB and PHS; and
(iv) maintenance of the provincial road networks.
3.7       Construction of the Foshan-Kainiat HiLhwAv.  The Foshan-Kaiping
Highway would comprise an 80 km section of the planned 470 km Guangzhou-
Zhanjiang Highway Intended to link the provincial capital of Guangzhou vith
the remote and lses developed southwestern part of the province (see Maps IBRD
23927 and 23928). The first 26 km section of this highway between Guangzhou



- 26 -
and Foshan was opened to traffic In September 1989. The Guangzhou-Zhanjiang
highway is itself a segment of the Tongiiang-Haikou coastal highway planned to
connect Heilongjiang Province located in Northeast China, with Hainan Island
in the South, and is one of the twelve strategic routes identified by MOC for
systematic upgrading (pare. 1.31).
3.8       The economy of the Foshan-Kaiping corridor is characterized by
expanding agricultural and industrial activities. Poshan (population 2.7
million) located about 18 km from Guangzhou, is an ancient city which under-
went rapid expaansion in the 1970. and 1980 and has a high population density
(704 persons/lm2). It has an extensive industrial base including textiles,
porcelain, electronics, plastics and household appliances. One third of the
surrounding area is farmland with a high level of production of rice, vegeta-
bles, fish and meat. Foshan's contribution to the province's GOVAI is abouL
14 percent. RaiDina County (pop. 0.6 million) is still basically an agricul-
tural economy, but has also a rapidly developing industrial sector (construc-
tion materials, electric machinery, household appliances, chemicals, furniture
and paper). Reshan, located at the midpoint of the Foshan-Kaiping road, is a
fast developing agricultural and industrial center.
3.9       The corridor is presently served by National Route 325 which is
proving inadequate to meet the growing traffic volumes. The highway between
Feahan and Heshan is continuously lined with industrial strip development, and
this is in most urgent need of traffic reliefd south of Heshan, the corridor
ln    .re zural La ait. &ltiou th oh road passes through several villages.
3.10      The new highway is designed to four-lane, limited access, expressway
standard (Table 1.7 for design standards). The northern terminus is at
Xiebian where the new road would connect with the Guangzhou-Foshan Highway,
opened in 1989. An approximately 1,000 m section is required to link the two
highways which is not part of the project. Assurances were obtained from GP
at nesotiations that the section of hiahwa_ linking the Guanazhou-Foshen
RxDressway to the Foshan-Kai2ing Higbway would be completed by December 31.
1996.
3.11      Between the two termini of the route at Xiebten and Shuikou, eight
traffic interchanges with the existing road system are planned, five in the
first 40 km, located at Zhangcha, Nanzhuang, Xijitian, Shatou, end Longshan,
and a further three in the next, more rural, 40 km at Chenshan, Conghe, and
Siqien. Improvements of the access roads connecting with the interchanges are
planned as part of the urban development of the communities along the route,
in particular Poshan and Heshan, but these improvement. are not part of the
proposed project. The first 40 km from Xiebian passes through the Pearl River
Delta area, requiring extensive sections on viaduct and several major bridges.
A total of 15,230 m of structure. are required, of which 14,100 m are located
in the iSeban-Heshan section. About 11.5 km of the route pass through regions
of soft soils, all located In the Xieban-Heshan section.
3.12      It is proposed that the new road be tolled (pare. 4.17), as is the
existing Guangzhou-Poshan Highway, and designs include provision for toll
facilities. In addition to civil works, the project includes the electrical,
electronic and mechanical (ESM) installations required fort toll collection,
traffic monitoring, telecommunicatione, and lighting of major bridges and



- 27 -
interchanges. The final engineering design and technical specifications have
been found satisfactory based on a review by Bank staff with the assistance of
Kampoax International/Danish Road Directorate (DRD) provided under grant funds
from the Danish Consultant Trust Fund.
3.13      Construction of the Lonttana-Tanxi Hiahway.  The Longgang-Tanxi
Highway is a 146 km section of the 388 km Shenzhen-Shantou Coastal Highway
which is planned to link two of the SEZs of Guangdong Province (Maps IBRD
23927 and 23928). Shenzhen SEZ is located in the central Pearl River Delta
region of the province on the border with Hong Kong, and Shantou SEZ is
located on the eastern border with Fujian Province. The first 47 km section
of the Shenzhon-Shantou Highway from Shenzhen to Longgang was completed to
Class I standards in 1991. Like the Foshan-Kaiping Highway, the Longgang-
Tanxi Highway comprises a segment of the planned Tongjiang-Haikou coastal
highway linking Heilongjiang Province in north east China to Hainan Island in
the south.
3.14      The Shenzhen-Shantou corridor is currently going through a period of
extremely rapid economic development. The combined GOVAI for the Shenzhen and
Shantou SEZs represents 16 percent of the total value of GOVAI for the prov-
ince as a whole. Shenzhon City (population 700,000), after the establishment
of an 330 km2 SEZ in 1980, experienced extremely high economic growth, averag-
ing nearly 40 percent per year in real terms between 1987 and 1991 (Table
2.1). Many export-oriented industries have been established in the zone
including electronics, machinery, chemicals, food and beverage, textiles, and
construction materials, and the zone has become one of the most important
centers for overseas trading in the country. In early 1992, the decision was
taken to expand Shenzhen SEZ to incorporate the County of Baoan, thereby
increasing the land area by six times. Shantou (population 9.0 million),
located near the border with Fujian Province, is an older city with a well
established agricultural and industrial base. Its SEZ was established in 1981
and expanded in 1984 to cover 52.6 km2. The major industries include elec-
tronics, machinery, textiles, plastics, clocks, chemicalo and canned food.
While the growth rate experienced in the Shantou region is overshadowed by
that of Shenzhea, it nevertheless averaged over 16 percent per year in the
period 1987-91, which is remarkable considering its relative isolation.
3.15      The corridor between the two cities has great potential for develop-
ment which would likely be supported by foreign investment. Development is
starting to take place, but this has put great pressure on the existing trans-
port system. There are no railways or waterways in the corridor, although the
port towns along the route are supplied with basec raw materials, in particu-
lar coal, by coastal shipping services. The corridor is served by a two-lan.o
highway, designated as Provincial Route 1925 to huidong and National Route 324
from Huidong to Shantou. The highway is reaching the limits of capacity, and
frequent delays are experienced along the route, particularly in the towns and
villages. National Route 324 is currently being widened from 6.5 to 8-9 m,
but this will provide only temporary relief given the very high traffic growth
in the corridor.
3.16      The new highway is designed to four-lane, limited access, expressway
standard (Table 1.7 for design standards). The highway traverses some soft
soil zones totalling about 24 km of the route length. The most difficult soft



- 28 -
soil section is between Houmen and Changshawan (Km 100 to Km 110) where OPFC
propose to construct two test embankmentG totalling 300 m in length in ord-?r
to investigate settlement rates. While-the road passes through a generally
hilly terrain, the new road is located mainly in flat valley bottoms so that
gradients are mild. However, a 1,230 m tunnel is required at Houmen (Km 100)
to pass through a section of rocky headland, and a shorter 430 m tunnel is
required at Yuandun (Km 85). A total of 5,770 m of bridge are required for
the total route between Longgang and Tanxi.
3.17      Between the two termini of the highway at Longgang and Tanxi, six
intermediate interchanges with the existing road system are planned at (from
west to east) Danshui, Shatian, Beiyun, Jilong, Houmen, and Shanwei. Most
traffic interchanges are at locations where the new road crosses the alignment
of the existing road, so that additional access roads are not required. The
exception is the Shanwei interchange, at Km 120, which is located some 16 km
from the existing main road on the Shanwei-Haifeng access road. Shanwei is a
new and rapidly growing port town, and the access road from Shanwei to
Haifeng, located on National Route 324, is planned to be upgraded by 1994 (but
not as part of the proposed project).
3.18      Additional facilities are included in the project similar to those
for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway (para. 3.12), including provision for tolling.
As with the Foshan-Kaiping Highway, Bank staff reviews were augmented by
assistance from Kampsax International/DRD (para. 3.12).
3.19      Road Imvrovement Pro2rsm.  The rapid increase in traffic in
Guangdong Province over recent years has accelerated the rate of deterioration
of existing paved roads, and has greatly increased the maintenance costs of
the more heavily used gravel roads. The RIP is designed to implement urgently
needed rehabilitation and upgrading of National and Provincial roads through-
out the province (see IBRD Map 23927) and would be integrated with the normal
road maintenance and rehabilitation program. In particular, the RIP component
is planned to strengthen the existing project identification and prioritiza-
tion procedures, building on the province-wide RDB and PMS which have been
pioneered and more extensively developed in Guangdong than in other provinces.
Specifically, it is proposed to add procedures for economic evaluation and
prioritization within constrained budgets, based on the methodologies and
computer models used in the Bank Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM)
and Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM).4/ GPCD is also concerned to raise
the standards of road construction and maintenance in the province; this would
be assisted under the project through the training and equipment components
(para. 3.36-3.40).
3.20      Based on the existing PMS, the GPHAB has tentatively identified 86
subprojects for inclusion in the RIP, as follows:
Group A: 24 subprojects, 450 km, for paving existing gravel roads;
1/  The Hiahwav Desian and Maintenance Standards Model, Watanatada and Oth-
ers, The Johns Hopkins University Press for the World Bank, 1987.



- 29 -
Group B: 59 subprojects, 703 km, for rehabilitating existing paved
roads; and
Group C: 3 subprojects, 107 km, for upgrading National Highways.
3.21      The implementation of the RIP would be phased, and subproject pack-
ages would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval at intervals,
primarily dictated by budgetary considerations for counterpart funding. The
criteria for subproject selection have been defined and include submission of
an economic evaluation, engineering design9 bidding documents, environmental
assessment and/or environmentas' action plans, and resettlement action plans
for the Bank's clearance (Annex 1). The economic evaluation of the first
package, comprising 24 subprojects (10 gravel road paving, 12 paved road reha-
bilitation, and 2 sections of National Highway upgrading), has already been
completed as detailed in paras. 4.33-4.39 and in Annex 1, and found to be sat-
isfactory. Subject to submission of the other documentation satisfactory to
the Bank, as outlined above, the first package would qualify for Bank financ-
ing under the project. Assurances were obtained from QP at negotiations that:
subprojects to be included in the RIP would be selected in accordance with
crlteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. as specified in Annex 1 to
this SAR.  Each suboroject would be anproved bv the Bank nrior to disburse-
ment.
3.22      Supervision of Construction.  A team of provincial personnel, local
engineers and technicians from other provincial institutions, and foreign
consultants would be established to supervise the construction of the Foshan-
Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways. The Joint Supervision Team (JST) would
have the responsibility to ensure that construction works for the highway are
carried out in full compliance with specifications, with strict quality con-
trol on site. The organizational arrangements for the construction supervi-
sion were confirmed during project appraisal.
3.23      A total of 306 months of foreign consultant contribution to the JST
has been agreed, divided as follows: (a) 254 person-months for civil works
involving 7 staff, (b) 30 person-months for E&M works involving two staff,
(c) 2 person-months for supervision staff training (using supervision staff
already assigned), and (d) 20 person-months as a contingency for specific
specialist needs which may arise. The foreign supervising engineers would be
integrated into the organization with operational responsibilities, and would
help establish procedures at all levels of supervision, including on-site
inspection and laboratory testing. A total of 270 local supervision personnel
were agreed for the JST, 100 for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway and 170 for the
Longgang-Tanxi Highway.
3.24      Supervision of the RIP component would be accomplished entirely with
local staff, although they would be involved in the supervision training pro-
gram discussed in the next paragraph. GPHAB would establish a special super-
vision unit for the RIP with staff taken from GPEAB and the municipal highway
bureaus in the region of each subproject. It was agreed that a minimum of two
persons would be allocated to each subproject.
3.25      A st&ff training program in construction supervision would be estab-
lished for all staff supervising infrastructure components of the project.



- 30 -
The program would include on-the-job training and formal teaching courses,
both domestic and overseas. About two person-monthe of foreign consultant
services are envisaged for construction supervision staff training. Training
would include the subject of environmental monitoring. The GPCD proposals on
supervision training are set out in Table 3.1. Assurances were obtained from
GP at negotiations that staffint numbers and trainina for the supervision-of
construction of the Foshan-Kaining HRiahav and Lonsgang-Tanui Highway. and
Road Improvement Progrgm would be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.26      Hiehwav Financing Technical Assistance.  The current system of high-
way financing is based on a complex structure of vehicle and road user charges
which have evolved over time and are no longer well adjusted to the needs of
the province. With the rapidly growing vehicle fleet making sharply increas-
ing demands on the road system, the time is ripe to rationalize the structure
of highway finances and develop a more equitable user fee system. Such a
system should be designed to ensure that revent.es keep pace with the increas-
ing demands for highway maintenance and construction, as traffic grows in
volume and as heavier vehicles (which are more damaging to highway pavements)
become more prevalent.
3.27      The MOC in Beijing, through the Highway Scientific Research Insti-
tute, has recently undertaken a review of highway financing in the Road Fund-
ing Study supported under the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project (Loan
2811-CRA/Cre'it 1792-CHA). Considering overall National highway funding needs
lp to the year 2000, the Study identified a likely shortfall in funding.
Without correction, this would not only restrict the further development of
the highway development program but would also likely cut the level of mainte-
nance for the existing highway network to below the point when road surfaces
could be sustained in good condition. Hence action was recommended to
restructure the system of highway financing, and several alternative models
were evaluated by the Road Funding Study.
3.28      It is proposed to take this work a stage further in the project by
preparing and implementing a plan to reform the highway finanetng system in
GP. While the Road Funding Study provides a valuable foundation on which to
base this work, the special nature of highway and economic development in GP
requires a thorough review of the Study's assumptions and recomaendations.
The work would be undertaken by GP, using assistance provided under the proj-
ect, in three stages:
Stage 1: Preparation
Stage 2: Discussion
Stage 3: Implementation
3.29      About three person-months of foreign expert assistance is required
for this component, together with 70 person-months of expert assistance from
the HOC Xian Highway Institute. This component would make extensive use of
the RDB and PMS developed bw the province (-which are scheduled for further
development in the project, para. 3.34), for estimating future funding needs
for highway upgrading and maintenance. An outline Terms of Reference for the
work, which defines in detail the contents of the Preparation Stage, is
included in nnex 2. Assurances were obtained from GP at neaotiations that GP
would prepare. under Terms of Reference satisfactorv to the Bank. a tilme-based



-31 -
and costed aet2on oroara-m for imolementina a revised hiahway flnancina struc-
ture.-furnish LIt to the Bank by December 31. 1993. lad therealfter take annro-
oriate stens to imolement the 2Mnrrm iA conMultation Xith the Bank.
3.30      Road Safetv Pilot Proiram. While much responsibility for road
safety matters now rests with other a8encies (para. 2.13), GPCD retains full
responsibility for all aspects of highway design and construction.
Accordingly, tha designs for the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways
have been prepared to a high standard and reflect safety considerations ade-
quately.
3.31      In order to improve the highway safety consciousness of road design-
ors working on other parts of the provincial road network, a Road Safety Pilot
Program (RSPP) has been prepared. This comprises traiuing, equipment, and a
demonstratin project tied to the training which would identify existing haz-
ardous sites where accidents repeatedly occur (i.e., accidenc blackspots) and
then develop end Implement engineering improvements to eliminate the hazards.
A total of $0.4 million, or Y 2.18 million, would be allocated for these
improvements which is sufficient to permit the Improvement of up to 40 black-
spots.
3.32      Based on the results of the RSPPp GPCD would consider the utilit- of
establishing a special road safety unit in the GPHAB to take speciflc full-
time responsibility for the regular identification and liprovement of accident
blackepots, and to initiate and develop safety audit procedures and other road
safety activities for application in the province.
3.33      Road Data Bak and Pavement  Manaaement System.  With increasing
maintenance and rehabilitatioa needs, and with growing demands on provincial
budget., it is becoming increasingly necessary to make prudent and cost effec-
tive decisions in planning major road works. In recognition of the need for a
more systematic and advanced method of determining highway improvement strate-
gies, a RDB and PMS have been developed in GP. The work started in 1986 under
the guidance of experts from Tonji University (Shanghai), and now covers -ore
than 90 percent of the provincial road system. Key features of the system
pioneered in GP have been Incorporated by HOC into a National RDB/PHS system
which is now being adopted under HOC sponsorship in several provinces (para.
1.34).
3.34      Assistance for the RDB/PHS program would be provided under the proj-
ect through the financlng of equipment and instruments required for pavement
condition surveys and for computer processing of data, and through training.
The emphasis would be on the following:
(a) modifications to the existing RDBIPNS to bring it into line with the
national system sponsored by DOCI
(b) extension of the system to all parts of the province; and
(c) incorporation of procedures for economic evaluation and for project
prioritisation under conditions of limited budgets based on the Bank
HDD and EBM.



- 32 -
3.35      Tke RDB/PMS system is expected to be the main tool used in the
selection and prioritization of projects in the RIP (par&. 3.19), and will
also provide basic information for the asseosment of highway financing ueeds
(par&. 3.26). Hence this component is well integrated with other components
of the project and in this way will help strengthen the capability of the
province in the efficient management of the highway system.
3.36      Ecuinment.  Equipment will be supplied under the project to assist
construction supervision activities and the general development of highway-
related activities in the province. The main equipment needs can be summa-
rized as follows:
(a)  Foshan-KaiDina and Lonaaang-Tani HiRhwavs
(i) laboratory equipment to support construction supervision activ-
ities, particularly for soils and asphalt concrete testing;
(ii) instruments to monitor environmental aspects during construc-
tion, as stipulated in the Environmental Action Plan (EAP,
Annex 3, para. 63);
(iii) instruments for research activities related to the testing of
alternative subsoil treatments in the difficult soft-soil
regions of the projects; and
(iv) vehicles and other equipment for the operation and maintenance
of the highways after opening, including equipment to assist in
mergencies such as accidents or hazardous waste spills.
(b)  Road Improvement Proaram
(i) laboratory equipment and survey instruments for provincial and
county road units;
(ii) specialized equipment, survey instruments and date processing
hardware and software for the application of the RDB and PMS;
(iii) road maintenance equipment urgently required to replenish the
equipment fleet of the provincial and county road maintenance
units.
3.37           A tentative list of project equipment confirmed at appraisal is
in the Project Files; equipment for environmental monitoring is specified in
detail in &BeM 3. However, it is intended that procurement be flexible and
adapted to the needs of the province dvuring implementation. The initial pro-
curement would be for equipment to support supervision, environmental monitor-
ing, provincial maintenance, project management and scientific renaarch; main-
tenance equipment for the major highways would be procured when they were
nearing completion.
3.38      Staff Training. In addition to the training of local staff in con-
struction supervision (para. 3.25), a seriee of training programs would be
conducted in transport planning, highway engineering, and other related areas



- 33 -
to support the development of highway-related activities in the province.
Time allocated to the main components is as follows:
Persons       Person-months
Study tours              50                25
Overseas training        20                70
Domestic training       290               177
3.39      Two person-months of foreign specialists are programmed for special-
ist lectures for general staff training. The training program is flexible and
is intended to be adapted to the actual training needs of the province over
the life of the project. The areas of major interest of training for
Guangdong provincial personnel were identified during project appraisal, as
outlined in Table 3.1. In developing the program further, the following prin-
ciples were confirmed at appraisal:
(a) as with other ongoing Bank-financed provincial highway projects, the
highway related training program for provincial staff would be coor-
dinated by the TCU of MOC in the interest of consistency, efficiency
and economy; the training courses would be programmed in consulta-
tion with the GPCD and the implementation administered by TCU;
(b) staff for training would be selected from all departments and insti-
tutes of the GPCD;
(c) overseas training would follow domestic training, selecting the best
candidates (from the point of view of language and technical abil-
ity) who would benefit most from overseas experience;
(d) for staff training overseas (excluding supervision training), the
duration of each assignment should be at least three months; and
(e) advantage would be taken of the contacts and experience of overseas
firms involved in contracting or supervising works to coordinate
overseas training activities.
3.40      It was confirmed at appraisal that GPCD would strengthen the divi-
sions and offices involved in managing and administering the training program
(the Education Division, the Science and Technology Division, and the World
Bank Finance Office) in terms of staffing levels, and by offering English
language training for those staff dealing with overseas training programs.
Assurances were obtained from GP at negotiationg that training would be car-
ried out under programs accelptable to the Bank. and that the offices of GPCD
responsible for the training lrogram be adeauatelv staffed with trained per-
sonnel.
D. Environmental Assessment
3.41      Foshan-Kaipina and Lnggaana-Tanxi HiJhwavs.  The Chinese internal
procedures for the environmental evaluation of major projects (see Annex 3)
were coordinated by the Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protuctiun Agency.
An Environmentsl Assessment (EA) for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway was prepared



- 34 -
by the Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute, and for the Longgang-
Tanxi Highway by the ESRI of MOC. It has been ascertained that the highways
would not affect ecologically sensitive areas and, if appropriate actions are
taken, should not have adverse environmental impact on the environment. Based
on the EA'. findings and subsequent to discussions between the representatives
of GP and Bank staff, an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) has been prepared
specifying the measures required for mitigating the potential adverse effects
on the environment during the construction and operation of the highway, and
the organizational and monitoring arrangements. The main measures relate to
social disruption, air quality, noise control, water management and control of
traffic, operation of quarries and waste disposal. The engineering design and
the technical specifications for the highway incorporate the mitigating mea-
sures required and appropriate arrangements have been made to ensure their
compliance during construction of the highway. The RAP was reviewed during
project appraisal and was found to be satisfactory. Summaries of the EA and
HAP are presented in Annex 3 for the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi High-
ways, and copies of the EA and ZAP reports are available in the Project File.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from GP that the environmental iro-
tectior measures stipulated in the EAP with respect to the Foshan-Kaiping and
Lonaaang-Tanxi Hiahwavs would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.42      Road Imnrovement Protram.  Since most of the works under the RIP
component of the project would involve upgrading, rehabilitation and mainte-
nance of smaller roads mostly within the existing alignment, they are not
expected to have a significant impact on the environmont. Nevertheless, the
potential for any adverse effect, regardleos of magnitude, of each subproject
on the environment needs to be fully assessed. The issues involved, and the
procedures to be followed, are set out in detail in Annex 3.
3.43      The process of subproject identification, prioritization and prepa-
ration would be programmatic, and essentially continuous over the project
implementation period. The GPHAB contracted the preparation of a Sectoral
Environmental Assessment (SEA) with the GPHDI and the Guangdong Provincial
Environmental Research Institute. Copies are available in the project files.
The SEA addresses the kinds of environmental impacts that may be axpected from
each type of subproject (i.e., road widening, pavement improvement, resurfac-
ing, etc.) supported under the RIP. The SEA includes a screening process for
identifying subprojects that might require an individual EA and HAP, a Sec-
toral Environmental Action Plan (SEAP) for subprojects that do not require a
subproject-specific EA, and an evaluation/approval process (that includes Bank
review) of the environmental documents prepared for all subprojects submitted
for funding.
3.44      For subprojects with an established risk of adverse impact on the
environment, a aubproject specific HA would be carried out and an EAP prepared
in a format similar to that summarized in Annex 3 for the Foshan-Kaiping and
Longgang-Tanxi Highways.  For subprojects for which the initial environmental
screening established that there were no potentially significant environmental
risks, an euvironmental code of practice would be applied (as detailed in the
SEAP; for the actions to be taken in the design and implementation stages.
These would be summarized in an abbreviated HAP taken from relevant components
of the environmental code of practice. Subproject packages submitted for Bank



- 35 -
approval would include an RAP for each subproject as a precondition for Bank
approval. Assurances were obtained frgm GP at negotiations thatgfor each
subDrolect of the RIP. an EAP would be nreuared. and the environmental mea-
sures stinulated in the RAPs would be carried out In a manner 9at"efactorXv to
the Bank.
S. Land Acquieition and Resettlement
3.45      Regulations.  The Land Administration Law of PRC and Guangdong Pro-
vincial Land Administration Regulations are the legal basia for the planning
and implementation of land acquisition and resettlement for all highway proj-
ects. The following provincial documents are also applied when land acquisi-
tion is initiated.
(a) Tax Management Method for Occupied Cultivated Fields.
(b) GP Land Management Methods.
(c) Land Requisition Regulations for Traffic Infrastructure Construction
of Guangdong Province.
3.46      Foshan-Kaioing and Longaang-Tanxi Righba-s.  Resettlment Action.
Plans (RAPs) have been prepared for the Foshan-Raiping and Longgang-Tanxi
Highways by the GPHDI and the GPFC, respectively. The plans have been
reviewed by Bank staff and found to be satisfactory. The Foshan-Kaiping High-
way would affect approximately 89040 people through permanent land acquicition
and 1,100 people through temporary land acquisition. A total of 183 families
with about 890 persons would require new housing. The Longgang-Tanxi Highway
would affect approximately 7,760 people through permanent land acquisition (xd
980 people through temporary land acquisition. A total of about 1,737 people
would require new housing. Resettlement plans would be implemented by the
local governments at city, county, township and village levels in accordance
with the terms and agreements signed between GPPC and the respective local
governments and the land bureaus. Land replacement would be provided through
reallocation of land within the same villages; any surplus labor would be
absorbed into village or township enterprises. It is expected that resettle-
ment along the highway alignment would be completed by the end of 1992 for
both highway projects, and earlier for the sections subject to advance con-
tracting (para. 3.74). A summary of the RAPs for the two highway projects and
their status is presented in Anne2L4, and copies of the RAPs are available in
the Project File. At negotiations assurances were obtained from GP that all
land accuisition. resettlement activities, and monitorina of resettlement with
respect to the Foshan-Raipint Hiahwav and Lonaaana-Tanxi Hiahwav would be
completed accordina to the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.47      Road Imrrovement Pro2ra.  A preliminary assessment of the resettle-
ment requirements of the RIP, based on an extrapolation of the resettlemeat
data available for the first package of 24 subprojects (which represents about
one third of the total RIP), indicates that a total of 460 families with 2,000
porsons would need to be resettled, and an additional 8-9,000 individuals
would qualify for compensation. An understanding was reached during project
preparation that the procedures to be followed for land acquisition, resettle-
ment, and compensation would be the same as those applied for the Foshan-



- 36 -
Kaiping anc. Longgang-Tanxi Highways. The actions to be taken regarding land
acquisition and resettlement would be outlined in RAPs and coordinated with
the preparation of the engineering and evaluation documents for each sub-
project package; these require submission to the Bank for review for financing
under the project. Assurances would be obtained from GP at nesotiations that
RAPs for subnroiects under the RIP would be carried out in a manner satisfac-
torv to the Bank.
3.48      Implementation and Monitorina.  The implementation of the RAPs for
the Foshan-Kaiping Highway, the Longgang-Tanx. Highway and the RIP subprojects
would be monitored concerning physical progress, disbursements and audits, and
socioeconomic impacts. The administrative framework for monitoring resettle-
ment, identifying the agencies responsible for each aspect of monitoring, is
available in the project file. The administrative framework also identifies
two social scientists who would contribute an independent view of resettlement
socioeconomic impacts to the monitoring process. Assurances were obtained
from GP that progress in the RAP be reviewed in a formal annual review meeting
of the concerned agencigs. including all aspects of Phvsical proaress. finan-
cial impacts. and socioeconomic impacts, and that a formal reiort on the
review meeting would be forwarded to the Bank by December 31 in each year.
including recommendations for modifying the RAPs in the lieht of oroaress
made. Implementation of the RAPs would also be monitored through the routine
project supervision and project quarterly progress reporting (para. 3.81).
3.49      Regarding the monitoring of effectiveness and socioeconomic impacts,
assurances were obtained from GP at negotiations that. followins further con-
sultation with the Bank, plans to monitor the effectiveness and socioeconomic
im2acts of the resettlement would be greoared by GP by December 31. 1993. and
such plans would be carried out thereafter as agreed with the Bank.
F. Cost Estimates
3.50      The project is estimated to cost about Y 4,333 million, or about
$795.1 million, including land acquisition and resettlement and physical and
price contingencies as summarized below and as detailed in the Project Cost
Summary (Table 3.2). The foreign exchange cost is estimated at $300 million,
or about 38 percent of the total. Base costs are estimated in March 1992
prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost
of works and construction supervision of the highway component. Price contin-
gencies have been calculated for both foreign and local costs, using interr-a-
tional annual escalation factors of 2.8 percent in 1992, 3.9 percent in 1993,
3.9 percent in 1994, 3.8 percent in 1995 through 1997, and price escalation
factors for the yuan of 6.0 percent in 1992, and 5 percent annually thereaf-
ter. Identifiable taxes and duties amount to Y 81 million ($14.9 million).
3.51      The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated
from final engineering designs. The costs were computed on the basis of MOC's
standard manuals for labor and equipment productivity and the relsted
annually-updated costs and current market costs of materials. The unit rates
were checked against the unit prices provided in recent bids for similar high-
way works executed under Bank financing.



- 37 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
($1.0 - Y 5.45, March 1992 prices)
Foreign
Y million                  S million          cost of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  total (Z)
Works
Foshan-Kalpin Highway      707.00   533.00 1,240.00  129.73    97.80   227.52      43
Longgang-Tanxi Highway     766.00   564.00 1,330.00  140.55   103.48   244.03      42
Road Improvement Program   358.53   168.72   527.25   65.79    30.96    96.74      _2
Road Safety Pilot Program    1.36     0.82     2.18    0.25      0.15     0.40     38
Subtotal             1.832.89 1,266.54 3.099.43  336.31   232.39   568.70     41
Supervision of
construction              42.52    19.84    62.36    7.80      3.64    11.44     32
Equipment                    5.79    69.32    75.11    1.06    12.72    13.78      92
Staff training/technical
assistance                 2.93     8.94    11.87    0.54      1.64     2.18     75
Total base cost      1.884.13 1.364.64 3.248.77  345.71   250.39   596.10     42
Physical contingencies     187.54   128.64   316.18   34.41    23.60    58.01      41
Price contingencies        357.07   141.87   498.94   65.52    26.04    91.56      28
Land acquisition &
resettlement             269.55     0.00   269.55   49.46      0.00    49.46   0.00
Total gro1ect cost    2.698.29 1.635.15 4.333.44  495.10   300.03   795.13    38
3.52       The cost of equipment was estimated based on prevailing prices and
those quoted by manufacturers and suppliers and includes the cost of equipment
delivered in Guangzhou, spare parts and related training, if needed, to oper-
ate and maintain the equipment. The estimated cost of consulting services and
training is based on recent contracts for similar services under ongoing high-
way projects.
C.  FinancinR
3.53       The Bank loan of $240 million would represent about 30 percent of
the total project cost or about 80 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The
central government would provide $58.4 million equivalent while GP would pro-
vide $496.7 million equivalent to meet the remaining costs of the project,
including contingencies. Agreement was reached with PRC at negotiations that
the Borrower would onlend the nroceeds of the loan to GP on the following
termst 20 Years. includina 5 years of grace. at a rate eguivalent to 90 per-
cent of the rate  _avable to the Bank by the Borrower with a 0.75 percent per
annum commitment fee on the outstandina balance. GP would bear the foreign
exchange risks. The details of project financing are shown below:



- 38 -
FINANCING PLAN
( million)
Component                                  Province   Central    Bank      Total
Major highway civil works                   257.28      56.84    144.41   458.53
Major highway  &M  supply and install         2.35       1.56      9.11    13.02
Road L<pzoe et Program civil work.           66.07       0.00     30.68    96.75
Road safety civil works                       0.25       0.00      0.15     0.40
Major highway construction supervision        6.64       0.00      3.65    10.29
Road Improvement Program supervision          1.15       0.00      0.00      1.15
Equipment                                     1.06       0.00     12.72    13.78
Staff training/technical assistance           0.54       0.00      1.64     2.18
Contingencies                               111.92       0.00     37.64   149.57
Land acquisition and resettlement            49.46       0.00      0.00    49.46
Prolect total                          496.72     58.40    240.00   795.13
H. Imulementation
3.54      The implementation of the project would be the responsibility of
GPCD. GPFC would be the axecuting agency for implementation of the Foshan-
Raping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways including construction, supervision, and
procurement of equipment to operate and maintain the highways end for monitor-
ing, estoing and environmental protection. GPHAB would be the executing
agency for the RIP and the RSPP, for equipment to be used for the maintenance
and supervision of provincially maintained highways, and for equipment for the
PMS and RDB. The World Bank Finance Office of GPCD would be the executing
agency for training, and the Planning Division of GPCD would be the executing
agency for the Highway Financing Technical Assistance. Since the two major
highways are segments of the national highway network, MOC would also provide
general supervision and guidance for their execution.
3.55      Foshan-Kaiyina and LonRgaaS -Tanxi Highwavs. The final engineering
and bid documents for the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways ware
distributed to the prequalified contractors by the end of September 1992.
Advertisement to prequalify for contractors was issued on May 3, 1992, and the
prequalification process was completed by end of September 1992. Acquisition
of land and the resettlement process are scheduled to be completed by
January 31, 1993.
3.56      The civil works for Foshan-Kaiping Highway were divided into four
contract sections and for Longgang-Tanxi Highway into six contract sections.
This Bae based on such criteria as volume, value and complexity of works;
length of contract section with logical *t@-ting and ending points so that the
section can be used on completion without having to wait for completion of the



- 39 -
remaining sections; approximate construction period and mass-haul diagrams of
earthworks. The fewer the sections the more likely it is that foreign con-
tractors and the larger capable local contractors would be interested in bid-
ding. Contractors could qualify for more than one contract section. One of
these contract sections (Contract Section No. 4 of the Longgang-Tanxi Highway
of 22.4 km in length) would be carried out by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
The remaining nine contract sections would be executed by ICB (para. 3.66).
Work on all the ICB contracts is expected to start around the beginning of May
1993 and to be completed by the end of December 1996. Work under the LCB
contract for the Longgang-Tanxi Highway is expected to start in December 1992
and be completed by end of March 1997. The installation of electrical, elec-
tronic and mechanical systems for the operation of the two highways would be
carried out under two ICB contracts (one for each Highway) and is scheduled to
commence around April 1995 and be completed by February 1997. The construc-
tion of service facilities, administration and maintenance buildings would
start around mid-1994 and be completed by the end of 1996. It is planned that
GPFC would provide the land and sites with utilities, and private operators
would construct the cervice facilities.
3.57      Sunervision of Construction of Foshan-Kaining and Lonaaang-Tanxi
Highways. The supervision of construction of the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-
Tanxi Highways would be carried out by a joint foreign/local supervision team
headed by a chief supervision engineer in Guangzhou. There would be a super-
vision engineer for each of the highways, and a resident site engineer for
each of the four contract sections for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway and for each
of the six contract sections 2or the Longgang-Tanxi Highway. The site engi-
neers would report to the supervision engineer in charge of their highway.
About 270 local personnel would be permanently engaged in supervision during
construction. The selection of local personnel is underway. Invitations to
foreign shortlisted firms were issued in September 1992 and the evaluation of
proposals is scheduled to be completed by the end of November 1992. Training
of local personnel is expected to commence by the beginning of January 1993.
The consultants are expected to tiobilize in April 1993 to help set up the
supervision organization prior to the commencement of civll works and to pro-
vide training abroad for some of thA local supervision staff.
3.58      Road Improvement Proaram.  GPHAB would be the executing agency for
the RIP. A special unit has been set up in GPH&B to manage the program, coor-
dinate its activities with all concerned agen'iest ensure consistency in the
quality of design, supervise, expedite impl-maentation and meet reporting
requirements. The needs of this unit for communications and computers have
been included in the list of equipment to be provided under the project. The
GPHDI, in cooperation with the relevant design institu:es of municipalities
and prefectures, would be responsible for the preparation of preliminary and
final engineering designs as well as the bidding documents for the subprojects
under the RIP. The design and bidding documents would be reviewed and
approved by GPHAB. Construction of the 24 subprojects included in the first
package of the program is scheduled to commence in 1993 and be completed in
about 18-24 months. The design and evaluation of the subprojects to be
included in subsequent packages of the RIP would be submitted to the Bank for
approval sequentially at about 6-9 month intervals. The program as a whole is
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1997. OPHAB would establish a super-
vision unit for the construction of the RIP. Staff for this unit would be



- 40 -
from the provincial highway administration and the municipal highway bureaus.
Generally, staff are qualified to supervise the works, but the laboratory
testing facilities need strengthening. To remedy this deficiency, laboratory
equipment as vell as communications equipment would be purchased under the
project. Also, the needs of the supervision unit for transport would be pro-
vided under the RIP civil works. Supervision etaff would receive training in
China and some would receive training abroad prior to commencement of con-
struction. Assurances were obtained from GP during negotiations that it would
establish by June 30. 1993 and maintain a RIP Unit with gualified and experi-
enced Rersonnel to orovide overall management and supervision for RIP and that
the transport administrations of the respective prefectural/municival and
county governments would be adequately staffed with qualified and experienced
personnel and provide other necessary resources for the Rreparation. adminis-
tration and supervision of the RIP suborolects.
3.59      Road Safety Pilot Proaram.  Staff to be trained under the project
would set up the program and follow up its implementation; this work would be
under the supervision of GPHAB. However, following completion of the RSPP,
GPHAB would consider setting up a special road safety unit to take specific
full-time responsibility for the regular identification and improvement of
accident black spots, and to initiate and develop safety audit procedures and
other road safety activities for application in the province.
3.60      Eauipment.   Responsibility for procuring equipment would be divided
between GPFC and GPHAB. GPFC would be responsible for the procurement of
equipment related to the Foshan-Raiping and Longgang-Tanxl Highways, such as
equipment for the central laboratory, environmental protection and the opera-
tion and maintenance of the highways. The equipment of the central laboratory
and environmental protection would be procured at an early stage of project
implementation (1993), while that for the operation and maintenance of the
highways is scheduled to be procured towards the end of implementation of the
highways (1996).
3.61      GPHAB would be responsible for procuring equipment related to the
RIP, RSPP and RDB/PMS components. The survey and laboratory equipment would
be procured at an early stage of project implementation, followed by procure-
ment of maintenance equipment. RDB and PHS related equipment is scheduled to
be obtained during 1993/94.
3.62      Training-  Formal selection procedures for candidates to be trained
would be developed by GPCD. Those to be trained abroad would be given three
months of English language training, and each trainee would be required to
submit a report on training received to his/her parent department or agency.
Moreover, GPCD has indicated that training to be provided under the project
would be related to career development and the professional growth of the
selected staff. The comprehensive training program would be open to all high-
way staff in the proTince and would be centrally administered by GPCD.
Because of the size and scope of the training included in the project, GPCD
would strengthen its divisions and offices involved in managing and adminis-
tering the training program, namely, the Education Division, the Science and
Technology Division, and the World Bank Finance Office.



- 41 -
3.63      The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed by the end of
June 1998 with the loan closing date stipulated as June 30, 1999. The imple-
mentation schedule for the project is presented in Annex 5.
I. trocurement
3.64      Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table:
Total
Project component                             Procurement method            project
ICB        LCB      Other    NBF /a      cost
- ------------------- ($ million) ---------------------
Civil Works
Highways                           511.09      60.00      7.00     -         578.09
(152.32)    (18.07)    (2.12)            (172.51)
RIP/Road Safety                      -         59.58     59.48     -         119.06
(17.97)    (17.96)            (35.93)
Eauloment
For project highways--
supply and install                 16.10      -         -         -         16.10
(11.27)                                  (11.27)
L-her                                S.30       -         5.96     -          15.26
(8.56)              (5.48)              (14.04)
Consultantltrain4n-                             -        17.16     -          17.16
(6.25)              (6.25)
Land acquiaition and resettlement    -          -         -       49.46       49.46
Total                          536.49    119.58      89.60    49.46     795.13
(172.15)    (36.04)    (31.81)    (0.00)    (240.00)
La NBFs Non-Bank-financed.
Notes  Figures In parentheses represent the amount financed by the Boak Group. All figures
Include estimated contingencies.
3.65      Procurement arrangements for the project have taken into account the
experience gained from the previous Bank-financed highway projects. The pro-
curement documentation, including that for prequalification of contractors,
and both ICB and LCB for civil work. and goods, has recently been standardized
for Chinese conditions in a cooperative effort between the Chinese Government
and the Bank. The new set of model documentation will be used for all rele-
vant procurement processes under the project. In particular, prequalification
criteria for civil works under ICB procedures have been tightened and are now
based on performance requirements pertinent to each of the contracts. Under
previous highway projects, force account was accepted by the Bank for minor
and scattered civil works, in recognition of the scarcity of construction
industry units, particularly in the more remote areas in the country. How-
ever, during recent years a sufficient number of contracting units have become
caLlable of undertaking road improvement works following a competitive bidding
process. Since the capacity of the contracting units is still limited, the



- 42 -
provision of work opportunities for local construction units under the project
would enhance further technical development and growth of the contracting
industry.
3.66      Worka.  Except as specified in paras. 3.67-3.69, contracts for civil
works would be procured under ICB. There are four ICB civil works contracts
in the Foshan-Kaiping Highway with an estimated cost of about $275 million,
and five ICB civil works contracts in the Longgang-Talxi Highway with an esti-
mated cost of about $240 million. Bids for these contracts would be invited
and awarded concurrently to allow qualified firms to bid for more than one
contract, thus making them more attractive to large contractors.
3.67      One section of the Longgang-Tanxi Highway (Section No. 4) costing
about $60 million traverses an area of deep soft soils that require special
treatment and includes a long bridge located in a restricted area making con-
struction activity difficult and time consuming. These two factors lead to a
significant degree of uncertainty regarding the duration of construction which
is expected to be about nine months longer than the remaining sections of this
highway. Also, this section contains two tunnels which are a part of another
contract thus leading to coordination problems among contractors. Because of
these complications, and to avoid project commissioning delays, it was agreed
to: (a) start this contract early with a local contractor selected under LCB
proceduress (b) construct two test embankments totaling about 300 meters in
length by force account to reduce the uncertainties regarding the extent of
soft soil treatment and the time to complete treatment.
3.68      Other civil works, including RIP subprojects, road improvements, and
small service facilities (toll stations, maintenance depots, service and rest
areas: administrative buildings, etc.), would be awardsd following LCB proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would not be precluded from bid-
ding for these contracts. These contracts are small in value (ranging from
$0.2 million to $5.0 million), scattered throughout the province, and would be
implemented over a four-year period. Therefore, ICB would be neither justi-
fied nor practical.
3.69      In the case of small civil works contracts, recent experience in
similar project. has indicated that when these small contracts are procured
under standard LCD, only the few construction entities located nearby the site
submit bids. Larger entities generally do not wish to mobilize for small
contracts. In recognition of this, and in order to reduce unnecessary admin-
istrative overheaA and expedite the procurement of these small contracts, but
at the same time ensuring sufficient competition, contracts costing $2.0 mil-
lion or lses  -   w an aggregate amount not exceeding $70 million may be
awarded under bocal bidding procedures under which at least three bids would
be invited from qualified contractors and bids would be opened in public. It
is Important to note that mall work. used to be carried out by force account.
Under this project, they will be put up for competition.
3.70      All potential bidders for contracts costing more than $10 million
would be subject to prequalification. Domeetic contractors competing under
ICB would be eligible for a 7.5 percent price preference. Domestic contrac-
tors are expected to be competitive for all contracts under this project.



- 43 -
3.71      Rauipment.  Except as provided for in para. 3.72, aUl contracts for
goods and equipment costing more than $200,000 equivalent would be awarded
under ICB. There are two major contracts in this categcry, one each for the
Foshan-gaiping Highway and the Longgang-Tanxi Highway, to supply and install
electrical, electronic and mechanical equipment required for the surveillance,
comunications, tolling and lighting systems for both highways. These involve
specialized equipment and have a total estimated cost of about $11 m.,llion.
3.72      For specialized equipment where the number of auppliers is small,
limited International bidding would be followed, in an aggregato amount not
exceeding $2.0 million. All other items or groups of items covering minor
maintenance equipment, equipment for RDB/PNS, laboratories, research and envi-
ron ental protection purposes estimated to cost less than $200,000 per con-
tract package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3.0 million, would be
procured following shopping procedures on the basis of a comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Bank
Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic manufacturers competing under ICB would
be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent
for goods, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower.
3.73      ConoultAnts.  Consulting expertise needs were identified for con-
struction supervision, staff training, and the highway financing technical
assistance; local expertise available in the various provincial universities
and inotitutes in the subsector would be used as much as poshible. All con-
sultants would be selected and employed under.torms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants.
3.74      Advance Contracting.  GPCD requested advance contracting and retro-
active financing in the following areas:
(a)  Contract 4 of Lontaant-Tanxi Hithwa_.   In order to expedite con-
struction of this difficult section which includes two test embank-
ments (para. 3.67), advance contracting was requested. The amount
subject to retroactive financing is estimated at about $3.0 million.
(b)  Gonsultants for Bid Documents for Foshan-Kaiping and Longzang-Tanxi
Righwa.s.  Because of the need to have the final design and bid
documents for both highways prepared to international standards so
that bidding can commence, GPCD requested the Bank to allow retroac-
tive fiuancing for the services of foreign consultants to perform
these duties. The amount subject to retroactive financing is esti-
mated at about $0.04 million.
(c)  Technical Assistance for the Hiahwav Financing Study Comoonet . So
that Guangdong Province can benefit from the results of this ;udy
as soon as possible, it is essential that experts assistinb in the
study (para. 3.29) commence their work as soon as possible. The
amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at about $0.06
Million.
3.75      Agreement to the above three requests of GPCD for advance contract-
ing and retroactive financing is recommended, subject to GPCD completing all
Bank requirements, including those for procurement, environment and resettle-
ment. The total amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at about



- 44 -
$3.1 million. All of this amount would apply to expenditures after March 319,
1992.
3.76      Bank Reai.  Each contract for goods or works with an estimated
cost of $2 million equivalent or more, and all consulting services would be
subject to Bank prior review. This represents about 90 percent of the esti-
mated total contracts by value. All other contracts would be subject to ex
post facto review.
J. Disbursements
3.77      Disbursements of the loan would covert
(a)  32 percent of the total cost of the civil works for the Foshan-
Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways, the RIP, and the RSPP;
(b)  70 percent of the total cost of supply and installation of E&M
equipment for the operation of the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi
Highways;
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly-imported equipment
or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally-manu-
factured equipment and 75 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; and
(d)  100 percent of the costs of consultant services and staff training.
3.78      To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with
an authorized allocation of $12 million equivalent, the estimated average
expenditure for a four-month period. The account would be opened in US dol-
lars in a bank acceptable to the Bank, and managed by Guangdong Provincial
Finance'Bureau. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would
be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 per-
cent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. The schedule of estimated
disbursements given in Table 3.3 takes into consideration the project dis-
bursement profile for transport projects in China and the potential risk of
delay in project implementation because of the difficult subsoil conditions.
3.79      Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the civil
works and for the delivery and installation of the equipment. Interim certi-
fication of civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts
would be done by the Joint Supervision Team, and payments authorized by GPFC
and GPHAB. Total retroactive financing of up to $3.1 million would be applied
to expenditures made after March 31, 1992 for Contract No. 4 for the Longgang-
Tanxi Highway ($3.0 million), review of design/bid documents for the Foshan-
Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways ($0.04 million), and consultants for tech-
nical assistance for the highway financing component ($0.06 million) (para.
3.74). Disbursements for staff training in China or abroad would be made from
the Special Account against the actual costs of travel, subsistence, and
training fees. For expenditures relating to training and contracts for works
and goods each valued at $200,000 and less, reimbursement would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs
would be r3tained by the implementing agencies and made available for review
by the Ban.; supervision missions.



- 45 -
IZ  Auditing
3.80      The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Adminis-
tration (SMA) would be responsible for the auditing of project expenditures.
Assurances were obtained from Guanadong Provincial Government and PRC durina
nemotiations that the groject accounts gnd the Special Account. inicluding
statements of expenditures. would be audited by indevendent auditors accept-
able to the Bank and that audit reDorts would be sent to the Bank for review
lithin siX months of the close of each fiscal year. The Bank Group currently
accepts SAM audits for this purpose.
L. Proiect Supervision. Re2orting and Monitoring
3.81      The project would be supervised through Bank missions, the frequency
of which would be guided by the progress of the works. It is anticipated that
missions would be mounted at intervals of about 6 months; a Supervision Mis-
sion Plan is presented in Annex 6. In addition, the Bink would monitor pro-
gress of implementation of all project components through quarterly progress
reports to be submitted by GPCD. It is estimated that over the implementation
period of the project the total  ime expended on supervision would be of the
order of 70 staff-weeks. Regarding reporting requirements, an understanding
was reached during appraisal with GPCD concerning the format of the quarterly
progress reports. This format includes parameters for progress monitoring
purposes. A copy of a quarterly progress report outline is available in the
Project File. A Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to
the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.



-46 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1       The economic analysis for the proposed project focusses on the civil
works components, which account for 95 percent of the project base cost, and
comprise three major subcomponents:
(a) construction of the Foshan-Kaiping Highway;
(b) construction of the Longgang-Tanxi Highway; and
(a) a Road Im"rovement Program.
4.2       The economic analysis was prepared using 1991 financial coats, modi-
fied by appropriate conversion factors to represent the economic costs.
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.3       The major quantifiable benefits of the project would include:  (a) a
decrease in traffic congestion along the existing Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-
Tanxi Highways through the provision of additional traffic capacity on a new
alignment, and reduced traffic distances due to the direct nature of the now
alignments; and (b) improvements in the condition and capacity of national and
provincial hi3hways at several other locations in the province.
4.4       Benefits from the project would accrue to road users in the form of
transport cost and time savings, and to the Provincial Government in the form
of reduced highway maintenance costs. Many road users are own-account opera-
tors for the producer enterprises or, in the rural areas, individual farmers,
and thus should capture the benefits of the project directly.  Public freight
and passenger services are also likely to respond to increased competition so
that transport costs savings would be passed on to the users; at minimum,
reduced operating costs would permit future price increases to be hold down.
Passengers would in any case enjoy the time savings offered by the project,
and the greater riding comfort from better road surfaces.
4.5       The project is intended to encourage better highway management and
maintenance through davelopment of the RDB and PMS and the provision of modern
maintenance equipment. Implementation of a revised highway financing system
can be expected to increase the funding available for highway maintenance and
upgrading, and this should improve both the quantity and the quality of these
operations. The project also is intended to strengthen public works procure-
ment procedures and to upgrade mansgement of the construction entities. From
these project components, substantial (but unquantified) benefits are ezpected
to accrue te infrastructure users through better quality pavements and high-
ways with assoniated lower vehicle operating costs, and to the province
through more ;oat-effective use of investment funds and longer life facili-
ties. The proper design of all highways included 4.n the infrastructure compo-
nents of the project should reduce the number of accidents, and reduced con-
gestion on existing roads in the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi corridors
should improve conditions for local traffic, includinp bicycles and agricul-
tural vehicles. The RSPP can also be expected to result in a reduced number
of accidents due to more road-safety-conscious designs.



- 47 -
B. Foshan-Kaixing Ulhvab
4.6       The Existint Corridor.  The Foshan-Kaiping corridor is a rapidly
developing part of GP, with activity ranging from traditional intensive agri-
culture to light manufacturing (para. 3.8). There is no railway to serve the
corridor, and National Route 325 is the only significant highway. The route
divides into two distinct sections. The first section (47 km) between Foshan
and Heshan is generally urban or semi-urban in nature. Sections of the road
through Foshan have been widened to four lanes, but much has the characteris-
tic of a Class II highway with an 8-9 a pavement and 1-1.5 m shoulders. Ter-
rain is flat and alignment is generally good. The second section (48 km) of
National Route 325 from Heshan to the southern terminus of the proposed new
highway at Shuikou, located on the Kaiping County boundary, reduces to a Class
III highway with a 6.5-7.0 m carriageway and at most a 0.5 m shoulder; terrain
is a little hillier, but never severe. This section of the route is mainly
rural, but the highway passes through several small villages.
4.7       Traffic on the Existina Roads.  Records from the provincial traffic
counting program indicate a rapid growth in traffic throughout the 1980. and
early 1990., with annual growth rates for the most part between 10 percent and
20 percet.t (Table 4.1). Due to counting stations being located close to urban
centers, the traffic counts include both local and long distance traffic.
Bank estimates indicate current inter-urban traffic volumes between Foshan and
Heshan of 10-14,000 vehiclas per day, with 2-5,000 additional slow vehicles.
South of Heshang volumes are lower with Bank estimates of about 8,000 vehicles
per day, with 2-3,000 slow vehicles.
4.8       Traffic speeds of about 40 km/h were observed along the developed
Foshan to Heshan section of the route, but conditions can vary greatly with
substantial delays common. Average speeds south of Heshan are higher at about
50 km/h, and serious congestion is not yet a problem. An unusually high pro-
portion of traffic moves at night, with 20 percent of all movements occurring
between 10 pm and 6 am and a further 20 percent between 6 pm and 10 pm, in
both cases about double the normal proportion. It is likely that drivers
prefer to travel by night to avoid daytime congestion in the sections of the
corridor around Foshan.
4.9       The Proposed New HiLhwav.  The highway is proposed as a four-lane
divided highway with access restricted to normal motor traffic; agricultural
tractors and nonmotorized traffic would be excluded (para. 3.10). Six route
alignments were evaluated in the early stages of the project. The selected
alignment Is the shortest, continuing from the stub-end of the terminal via-
duct of the Guangzhou-Foshan Expressway (opened September 1989) and bypassing
Foshan on the west side. A cheaper, but significantly longer, alternative was
rejected, principally because it would be located further from Foshan City and
would provide less traffic relief. At Heshan, the selected alignment crosses
the existing highway and continues in parallel on the east side to the termi-
nus at Shuikou.  The new highway would be 80 km in length, compared with 95 km
for the existing National Highway 325.
4.10      Prolected Traffic on the Proposed Highwav.  Traffic projections for
the proposed new highway consider diversion of traffic from the existing high-
way, and generation of traffic through (a) releasing suppressed demand caused



° 48 -
by capacity limits on the existing highway, and (b) by the stimulation of
economic growth (Table 4.4).
4.11      Based on official projections of economic growth in the corridor of
between 9 percent and 10 percent per year to the year 2000, and 5 percent per
year thereafter, the feasibility study adopted a declining annual traffic
growth rate over the period, as follows:
Passenger         Goods
vehicles         vehicles
1991-95          11X per year      10  per year
1995-2000        9.5X              8.51
after 2000       51                51
4.12      With recent traffic growth (Table 4.1) and economic growth (Table
2.1) indicating actual growth rates some 50-100 percent greater than the 1991-
95 projections, these projections were increased for the early years to
13 percent and 11 percent per year for passenger and freight vehicles respec-
tively, and were used to prepare the projections of traffic on the existing
highway or diverted to the new highway. Additional generated traffic was
added to the new highway at the rate of 10 percent of the diverted traffic.
Traffic projections on the existing highway in the case without the new
Foshan-Kaiping Highway assumed that growth would be restricted by the capacity
limits of the existing road; this suppressed demand would be released with the
opening of the new highway and was treated as additional generated traffic.
Based on recent growth in this part of the province, the traffic projections
in Table 4.4 can be viewed as conservative.
4.13      Economic Analysis.  Total financial costs of construction for the
project are estimated at Y 1,734 million, including allowances for physical
and price contingencies (Table 4.6). Economic costs of Y 1,863 million were
estimated from the financial costs by deducting taxes and price contingency,
and adjusting by a factor of 1.25 to reflect the currently estimated (1991)
shadow price of project components. Construction cost rates vary quite
sharply between the two main sections of the route, from about Y 35 million
per km for Foshan-Heshan, to about Y 12 million per km for Heshan-Shuikou.
The higher costs in the Foshan-Heshan section reflect the larger number of
structures (including four very large bridges), soft soil conditions, and
higher land costs.
4.14      For evaluation purposes, the highway is assumed to take about four
and a half years to construct, opening in 1997. Additional costs are
anticipated 10 years after opening for pavement overlays in all sections of
the highway. Annual costs of highway maintenance and toll operations have
also been included.
4.15      Project benefits were estimated based mainly on vehicle operating
cost and time savings; average vehicle operating costs by vehicle class, pave-
ment typo, pavement condition, and terrain, are shown in Table 4.7. These
estimates of vehicle operating costs were increased for congested highways to
reflect lower traffic speeds and greater frequency of speed-change cycles
prevailing in these conditions.  The evaluatlin also assumed that the very



- 49 -
high proportion of nighttime traffic would be reduced (since long distance
traffic would no longer have to travel at that time to avoid congestion),
returning the corridor to a more normal traffic distribution.
4.16      The highway was first evaluated without tolls with the discounted
cost-benefit analysis shown in Table 4.8 by the two highway sections, Foshan-
Heshan and Heshan-Shuikou. For this case, construction costs were reduced by
Y 50 million to eliminate toll booth costs, and the recurrent costs of toll
operations were omitted. The estimated economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) was 24.2 percent, with a first year rate of return (FYRR) in 1997 of
18.2 percent.
4.17      Tolling.  It is intended that the highway be operated as a toll
road, which will involve higher construction and operation costs, due to the
toll facilities and a loss of potential benefits. Practical experience of
tolled roads in China has not been consistent to date. In the north, traffic
levels have been lower than expected, generating disappointing toll revenues.
In the south, experience on the Guangzhou-Foshan Highway in Guangdong Province
is more encouraging: after a slow start following opening in August 1989,
revenues are now reported at around Y 100,000 per day, or Y 36 million per
year, compared with an investment cost of Y 280 million. Given that the
Foshan-Kaiping Highway is a contintuation of Guangzhou-Foshan, tolling on this
highway can be expected to generate significant revenues. Since tolling would
impact the project benefits, but this impact cannot at present be determined
with reasonable confidence, assurances were obtained at neaotiations that GP
would PreRare recommendations for aDRronriate toll levels for the Foshan-
Kaivina Hiahwav. taking into consideration the present tolling exRerience in
China, and these recommendations would be submitted to the Bank for its review
and comment by December 31. 1996.
4.18      Table 4.9 sets out the discounted cost-benefit analysis for toll
road operations. Imposition of tolls would have the effect of reducing traf-
fic volumes along the expressway, but each component of traffic would be
affected differently. Long distance traffic using the new highway would be
the least likely to be affected, since the savings offered by the new highway
compared with the existing road are considerable and would not easily be off-
set by tolls. For shorter distance local traffic, the choice of route, old or
new, depends on the balance between shorter, but congested, travel on the
existirg road versus longer distances (including travel on access roads) but
less congested travel via the new highway. The addition of tolls to the new
hig:nwey will reset the balance point in choosing between the old and the new
route, and could be expected to deter significant short distance traffic from
using the new highway. Since the benefits of the new highway accrue mostly to
longer distance traffic, it can be expected that the drop in traffic on the
new highway due to the imposition of tolls is likely to be greater than the
drop in benefits. The toll road evaluation assumes that traffic volumes under
tolled conditions (with tolls assumed to be set at no more than 30 percent of
attributable cost savings) would reduce by about 17 percent, but that benefits
would reduce by only 14 percent. Evaluation as a toll road indicates only a
small reduction in economic performance, with average EIRR reducing to
21.4 percent and the FYRM to 15.2 percent (Table 4.9).
I  ,I  ..



- so -
4.19      Sensitivit. Teats.  Sensitivity tests (assuming tolled operations)
indicate that the project would remain viable If nonstruction coats rose by 10
percent and benefits dropped by the same proportion, which would give a
reduced value of EIRR of 18.5 percent (Table 4.10). Under these assumptions,
the FYRR of the Heashan-Shuikou section would reduced to lose than the test
discount rate of 10 percent but, given the conservative nature of the traffic
forecasts used, this is acceptable and would not be a reason to delay con-
struction.
C. Longgang-Tanxi HihMWAv
4.20      The Existing Corridor.  The entire eastern coastal corridor of
Guangdong Province from Shenzhen to Shantou is the scene of intense develop-
ment (para. 3.14). The main means of transport in the corridor ia highway,
with some bulk materials supplied through coastal shipping. There are no rail
services in the corridor.
4.21      The entire 203 km of the existing highway from Longgang to Tanxi is
a 2-lane highway, mostly built to Class III standards with a 7-m carriageway,
but with about 30 km improved to 8-m width, and 50 km at only 6.5-7 m car-
riageway width. From Ruidong (50 km from Longgang) to Tan-xi (and on to
Shantou), the road is classified as National Route 324, and this highway is
currently being upgraded to a Class II highway with a 9 m pavement. The road
follows mainly flat to rolling terrain, but with one difficult 5-km section at
Houmen between Jilong and Meilong where the road takes on a mountainous char-
acter; the new project would bypass this section In tunnel. The road passes
through an estimated 16 communities and some 24 km, about 12 percent of the
total route, are classified as urban or semi-urban in character.
4.22      Traffic on the Existina Roads.  Traffic growth in the corridor was
rapid throughout the 1980. and early !990s, although there appeared to be a
slight pause in growth two years ago (Table 4.2). As with other count sta-
tions in the regular provincial traffic counting program, some are located
very close to urban areas and include very short distance traffic in the
counts; this can be misleading for inter-urban transport planning purposes.
For this reason, GPCD undertook a special count survey during October 16-18,
1992, counting continuously for 72 hours (Table 4.3); these results indicate
inter-urban traffic volumes of 7-12,000 vehicles per day in the corridor,
together with 3-500 slower agricultural vehicles. These findings were con-
firmed by Bank observations, noting two additional pointas (i) traffic in the
frequent towns and villages can be substantially greater and (ii) traffic
volumes observed in late 1991 were significantly greater than those observed
during the 1990 Highway Screening Mission (para. 3.2).
4.23      Observed traffic speeds can average between 50 and 60 km/h between
towns, but reduce to 15-24 km/h in the built up sections. However, conditions
can vary quite significantly from day to day, and traffic Jams of over one
hour in length are common. The October 1991 traffic count survey indicated
very high volumes of night time traffic, with 25 percent of all traffic moving
during the hours 10 pm to 8 am, and an additional 15 percent of the 24-hour
volume in the hours 6 pm to 10 pm; both significantly higher than the 10 per-
cent of daily traffic normally moving in each of these periods. As with the



- 51 -
Foshan-Kaiping corridor, it is likely that traffic moves at night to avoid
daytime congestion in the towns and villages along the rou4e.
4.24      The Proposed Lonnaang-TanXi Hima_wa.  The highway is proposed as a
4-lane divided highway with access restricted to normal motor traffic; agri-
cultural tractors and nonmotorized traffic would be excluded. The feasibility
study examined alternative alignments along the corridor of the Shenzhan-
Shantou highway, of which Longgang-Tanxi is a part, but topography largely
dietates the alignment in the project corridor with few significant alterna-
tives available. One major alternative was examined for the Houmen-Tanxi
section. A southerly alignment was selected since it was shorter, passes
closer to the new prefectural capital of Shanwoi City, and had lses adverse
impact on agricultural land. However, the selected southern alignment in this
section does pass through regions of soft soil which require special engineer-
ing treatment. At an early stage of preparation, the new highway was proposed
as two-lane leaving room for construction of an additional two lanes at a
later date. However, recent traffic growth has led to planning a four-lane
highway from the outset; economic oaalyes confirm this decision. The dis-
tance along the new route from Longgang to Tanxi would be 146 km, saving 57 km
compared with the 203 km of the existing highway.
4.25      Proiected Traffic on the ProDosed Hiahwav.  Traffic projections for
the proposed new highway consider diversion of traffic from the existing high-
way, and generation of traffic through (i) releasing suppressed demand caused
by capacity limits on the existing highway, and (ii) by the stimulation of
economic growth (Table 4.5).
4.26      Official projections for the corridor indicate economic growth (mea-
sured by GOVAI) of 9 percent per year up to the year 2000, declining to 4 per-
cent to 6 percent per year thereafter; this compares with the very rapid
growth of 16-33 percent per year achieved in the corridor between 1987 and
1991 (Table 2.1), and which shows no sign of letting up. Based more on the
recent evidence of actual growth, rather than official economic projections,
the feasibility study assumed very high traffic growth rates in the 1990.,
averaging about 17 percent annually to 1995, declining to about 14 percent per
year to 2000, and then reducing to about 5 percent per year thereafter. While
such high initial traffic growth rates are certainly possible, they are proba-
bly optimistic to use as an average, and have been reduced for appraisal. For
this evaluation, therefore, the same traffic growth rates were used as for the
Foshan-Kaiping Highway evaluation (para. 4.12).
4.27      Economic Anal7sis.  Total financial costs of construction for the
project are estimated at Y 1,812 million, including allowances for physical
and price contingencies (Table 4.6). Economic costs of Y 1,936 million were
estimated from the financial costs by deducting taxes and price contingency9
and adjusting by a factor of 1.25 to reflect the currently ostimated (1991)
shadow price of project components. Construction cost rates for the firnt
parts of the route are about the same level ao the oeshan-Shuikou section of
the Foshan-Kaiping Highway at between Y 11-13 million per km, but increase to
nearer Y 15 million per km between Boumen and Tanxi due to major structures,
including the Houmen Tunnel and the Changshawan Bridge, and more difficult
soft soil conditions.



- 52 -
4.28      For evaluation purposes, Lhe highway is assumed to take about four
and a half years to construct, opening in 1997. Additional costs are antici-
pated 10 year. after opening for pavement overlays in all section. of the
highway. Annua.1 costs of highway maintenance and toll operations have also
been included.   Project benefits were estimated in the same way as described
for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway (para. 4.15).
4.29      Following the same procedures as for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway, the
highway was first evaluated without tolls with the discounted cost-benefit
analysis shown in Table 4.11 by the three highway sections, Longgang-Baiyun,
Baiyun-Houmen, and Houmen-Tanxi. For this case, construction costs were
reduced by Y 50 million to eliminate toll booth costs, and the recurrent costs
of toll operations were omitted. The estimated EIRR is 30.9 percent, with a
FYRR in 1997 of 22.8 percent.
4.30      Tolling.  It is intended that the highway be operated as a toll
road, and the same considerations apply as discussed for the Foshan-Kaiping
Highway (para. 4.17). Evaluation as a toll road indicates only a small reduc-
tion in economic performance, with average EIRR reducing to 27.8 percent and
the FYRR to 19 percent (Table 4.12). As for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that GP would Prepare recommenda-
tions for aDDro2riate toll levels for the Longrana-Tanxi Hiah_av. takint into
consideration the present tollina experience in China, and these recommenda-
tions would be submitted to the Bank for its review and comment by December
31. 1996.
4.31      Sensitivity Tests.  Sensitivity tests (assuming tolled operations)
indicate that the project would remain viable if construction costs rose by 10
percent and benefits dropped by the same proportion, reducing the overall EIRR
to 24.6 percent (Table 4.13). The overall FYRR would reduce to 15.6 percent,
with one section (Houmen-Tanxi) dropping to 9.6 percent. However, thia would
be insufficient to delay construction of this section.
4.32      Suamaries of the evaluations for both the Foshan-Kaiping and
Longgang-Tazxi Highways are presented in Table 4.14.
D. Road Im.rovement Proeram
4.33      The Road Improvement Program is intended to upgrade and rehabilitate
national and provincial roads throughout the province, and comprises about 200
relatively small subprojects, each taking less than two years to construct.
The RIP would be implemented on a program basis, with subprojects identified
and evaluated throughout the life of the project and submitted to the Bank for
financing in packages. The first package of 24 subprojects was evaluated at
Appraisals the details are recorded in Annex I which also provides the model
for the evaluation of future packages. The evaluation of the first package is
sammarized below.
4.34      _ethodology.  The evaluation of Group A and B projects uses the
Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance model (HDE III, para. 3.20). The BDM
model is designed to estimate total life-cycle costs--construction, mainte-
nance and road user costs--as a function of road design, maintenance stan-



- 53 -
dards, and other policy options. Thus the model enables decision makers to
evaluate costs and benefits of highway improvement projects.
4.35      The Group C subprojects were evaluated using a computer spreadsheet
evaluation model developed in previous Bank highway projects in China. This
treated many aspects more simply than EDI, but did account for important traf-
fic congestion effects which are not included in HDM. Thus the Group C model
assumes a single standard composition for motor vehicle traffic (compared with
eight vehicle types separately analyzed in HDM), but does consider the influ-
ence of agricultural tractors and other slow vehicles including bicycles
(ignored in the HDM analysis) which are important when traffic capacity is
being considered.
4.36      Traffia.  A uniform set of traffic growth factors were used for the
evaluations of all the projects. The growth rates used for various types of
traffic across different time periods are listed below:
Annual srowth rate
Traffic type                1991-95   1996-2000      2001-10
_____________   (Z)… ________
Motor vehicles                10          8            5
Agricultural Tractors          5          2            0
Others                       2.5          0           -5
4.37      economic Anallsis of the First Package.  The results of the evalua-
tion of the first package of RIP are summarized in Table 4.15.
4.38      For the Group A and B subprojects, construction, maintenance and
vehicle operating costs were estimated year by year for an 18-year period
(1993 to 2010) for both the "with" and "without" cases for each subproject.
By comparing cost and benefit streams for both cases, the HDM model estimated
economic indices such as Net Present Value (NPV) and EIRR and FYRR. All sub-
projects in Group A and B of the first package yielded high EIRRo, with the
Group A subprojects averaging about 24 percent and the Group B subprojects
much higher averaging over 100 percent.  These levels of economlc return are
not unusual in projects of this nature, where most of the quite low investment
is put into a substantial upgrading of the pavement surface with little change
to the road alignment. In particular, the "without project" case for many of
the Group B pavement rehabilitation projects is scarcely viable; no amount of
routine maintenance and patching would keep these roads in acceptable condi-
tion, and hence the benefits to the proposed pavement rebuilding operation are
very high.
4.39      The EIRRs for the two Group C National Highway subprojects are
lower, but still acceptable, averaging 16 percent. The lower returns lu these
cases is due to the significantly higher unit construction costs. These are
in part needed to bring these highways up to an acceptable geometric standards



- 54 -
for a National route which increases costs beyond those strictly necessary for
traffic capacity requirements.
E. Overall Evaluation
4.40      The comparison of benefits and costs yields an economic rate of
return of approximately 24 percent for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway, 31 percent
for the Longgang-Tanxi Highway, end 55 percent for the first package of the
Road Improvement Program. With the tolling of the two major highways, there
vould be additional costs for its construction end operation, and a potential
of lost benefits as some potential users opt to use untolled routes. However,
based on Bank studies and experience elsewhere in the world, an appropriate
toll level would result in limited traffic diversion so that the EIRRs remain
acceptable (in this case it would be about 21 percent end 28 percent, respec-
tively), and would produce revenues sufficient to cover at least the operating
costs of tolling and highway maintenance.
F. Risks
4.41      Because of the difficult subsoil conditiovs along the alignment of
the Foshan-Kaiping end Longgang-Tanxi Highways, the major risk is delay in the
completion of the highway end the quality of construction. To counter this
risk, two test embankments are being built In advance of the main works to
investigate the extent and timing of soft soil treatments. Since the imple-
menting agency for the two highways is a first-time executing agency for a
Bank project, there is also a risk in implementing the major highway compo-
nents of the project In a timely manner. However, the preparation of the
project was assisted by the Bank's experience in previous provincial highway
projects, and by the more act.ve involvement of the MOC; this enhanced role of
the Ministry is xpected to continue into future projects. To minimize the
risks, the project was designed with the assistance of foreign experts, pre-
qualification of contractors was made particularly stringent, and supervision
arrangements were carefully formulated to ensure regular monitoring and effec-
tive quality control.



- 55 -
V. AGRREME3TS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
5.1       Agreement was reached with the Borrower at negotiations that it
would onlend the proceeds of the loan to GP under the following terms: 20
years. including 5 year. of grace, at a rate equivalent to 90 percent of the
rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower, with a 0.75 percent per annum com-
mitment fee on the outstanding balance (para. 3.53).
5.2       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GP that:
(a)  the approximately 1,000 m section of highway linking the Guangzhou-
Foshan Expres.way to the Foshan-Kaiping Highway would be completed
by December 31, 1996 (para. 3.10);
(b)  subprojects under RIP would be selected in accordance with criteria
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, as specified in Annex I to
this SAR and would be submitted for Bank approval prior to disburse-
ment (para. 3.21);
(c) staffing level, and training for the construction supervision per-
sonnel for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway, Longgang-Teaxi Highway, and
Road Improvement Program components of the project would be satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 3.25);
(d) GP would prepare, under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank,
a time-based and costed action program for implementing a revised
highway financing structure, furnish it to the Bank by December 31,
1993, and thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the program
In consultation with the Bank (para. 3.29);
(e) training would be carried out under programs acceptable to the Bank,
and the offices of the GPCD responsible for the training program
would be adequately staffed with trained personnel (para. 3.40);
(f)  the environmental measures stipulated in the RAP with respect to the
Foshan-Kaiping Highway and the Longgang-Tanxi Highway would be car-
ried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.41);
(g) for each subproject of the RIP, an EAP would be prepared, and the
environmental measures stipulated in the EAPs would be carried out
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.44);
(h) all land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the
Foshan-Kaipig Highway and Longgang-Tanxi Highway would be completed
according to the RAP In a manner 3atisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.46);
(i) RAPs for subprojects under the RIP would be carried out In a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.47);
(j) progress in the RAP be reviewed in a formal annual review meeting of
the concerned agencies, including all aspects of physical progress,



- 56 -
financial impacts, and socioeconomic impacts, and that a formal
report on the review meeting would be forwarded to the Bank by
December 31 in each year, including recommendations for modifying
the RAPs in the light of progress made (para. 3.48);
(k) following further consultation with the Bank, plane to monitor the
effectiveness and socioeconomic impacts of the resettlement would be
prepared by GP by December 31, 1993, and such plans would be carried
out thereafter as agreed with the Bank (para. 3.49);
(1) GP would establish by June 30, 1993 and maintain a RIP unit with
qualified and experienced personnel to provide overall management
and supervision for RIP and that the transport administrations of
the respective prefectural/municipal and county governments would be
adequately staffed with qualified end experienced personnel and pro-
vide other necessary resources for the preparation, administration
and supervision of the RIP oubprojects (para. 3.58); and
(m)  GP would prepare recommendations for appropriate toll levels for the
Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways taking into consideration
the prevailing experience in China, and these recommendations would
be submitted for Bank review and comment by December 31, 1996
(paras. 4.17 and 4.30).
5.3       The approval of the Loan Agreement by the Borrower's State Council
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.53).
5.4       The approval of subprojects under RIP by the Bank would be a con-
dition of disbursement (para. 3.21).
5.5       Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of $240 million to the PRC; the term would be for 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable inter-
est rate.



CHINA
IMIGDOONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Coauntries
Country area   Tons originated Ja         Ton-km /la           Average      Estimated GNP       Tons/1,000       ton-kmJSGUP
Country       (million sq km)            (millions)         (bitlions)     distance (km)        (S billion)            of GNP
Chfna (1987)                   9.6                8,660              1,526                176               320              27.1             4.77
USSR (1987)                   22.4               33.361              8,339                250             2,375              14.1             3.51
USA (1987)                     9.4                5,261              3.702                704             4,486               1.1             0.83
India (1987/88)               3.3                   551                335               608                241               2.3             1.40
Brazil (1987)                  8.5                   847           355 /_b                419               315               2.7             1.13                  0
U'
/_a Includes rail, hichway, internal waterway, pipeline, and air freight only.
/_b t986 data
Sources: China:  "Statistical Yearbook of China", 1988, p. 448. GNP from "The Uorld Bank Atlas 1968", p. 6.
USSR: Narodnoe Khozyaistvo SSSR v. 1987 g. ("The USSR National Economy in 1987"), pp. 306-307. GUP from "Handbook of Econormic
Statistics 1988", p. 31. Truck traffic estimates from Vladimir Kontorovich and Holland Hunter, "Trarsport Performance
in 1987", p. 6.
USA:  "Transportation in America", 1989, p. 8. GNP from "The World Bank Atlas 1988", p. 9.
India: World Sank estimates based on Government of India, "Ecanomi't Survey", 1988/89 and "Perspective Plam,ing for
Transport Development", 1988. GNP estimate from "The World Bank Atlas 1988", p. 7.
Brazil: World Bank Appraisal Report, "Highways Management and Rehabilitaion Report", 1989. GNP from "The World Bank Atlas
1988", p. 6.



CHINA
GUAhGD0UG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road and Railtay Network Density in Selected Countries
Rail Density                                  Road Density
Rail                                         Road
Population      area            Length                                       length
Country      Year    (million)   ('000 sq km)       ('000 klm) (kr/'000 pop) (kms/'000 sq km)    C'Q00 km)    (ki 1000 pop)   (kt /'00 sq km)
China        1987          1,081         9,600             53          0.05             5.5           982                0.9             102.3
USSR         1987            282        22,403            145          0.52             6.5         1,610                5.7              71.9
USA          1987            244         9,400            213          0.87            22.6         6,242               25.6             664.0
India        1987            797         3,287             62          0.08            18.9         1,800                2.3             547.6
Brazil       1987            145         8,500             30          0.21             3.5         1,500               10.3             176.5
Sources:    China: "Statistical Yearbook of China", 1988, p. 3, 428-429.
USSR: USSR State Statistical Commission, "Narodnoe Khozyaistvo SSSR v. 1987 g".  ("The USSR National Economy in 1087X),                               On
pp.312, 327, and 671.
USA: "Transportation in America", 7th Edition. (Westport, Conn.: Eno Foundation for Transportation, Inc., May 1989),
p. 4. "Highway Statistics 1986", US Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, p. 115.
India: States' Road Project, No. P-4812-IN, October 3, 1988, p. 1; and Goverrment of India, Ministry of Finance,
"Economic Survey, 1988/89", p. s-1.
Brazil: World Bank Appraisal Report, "Highways Management and Rehabititaion Report", 1989. GNP from "The World Bank Atlas
1988", p. 6.



-759  -
Ta9ble  1.3
-CHINA
GUAMSDOS W.OVMNIAL RI~M  PROJECT
1b.ta: Freight Traffic
(billion tow.  m)
Domestic
Year             Rail.           Road   wateaways I._.        FiVelnes  Civil. Aviation             Total
1952             60.2             1.4             11.6               -             0.002             73.4
Modal. split. CZ)            62.0             2.0             16.0               --               --            100.0
1977            456.9            25.1            102.1             38.7            0.076            622.9
NOW. input CZ)               73.4             4.0             16.4              6.2               --            100.0
1979            559.9            74.5            139.3             47.6            0.123            821.4
1960            571.7            76.4            152.1             49.1            0.141            849.4
1I.-Is          571.2            70.0            150.7             49.9            0.170            850.0
1982            612.0            94.9            170.6             50.1            0.198            928.0
198M            664.7            106.4           181.1             53.4            0.229           1007.8
1984            724.L1          153.6            196.1             57.2            0.311           1132.0
1965            612.6           169.3            237.1             60.3            0.415           1279.7
1986            676.5           211.8            270.0             61.2            0.481           1420.0
1967            947.1           266.0            268.9             62.5            0.650           1565.2
1968            967.8           322.0            310.4             65.0            0.730           1685.9
1969          1.039.4           337.5            349.8             62.9            0.690           1790.3
1990          1,062.2           335.6            345.1             62.7            0.820           1806.6
Hadal split CX)              56.6             18.6            19.1.             3.5               --            100.0
&mewth cat* C:) V. a.
1952-77              6.4             12.1             9.0               --             15.7              8.9
1963/64              9.0             41.7             8.3              7.1             35.8             12.3
1964/65             12.1             10.2            20.9              5.4             33.4             13.0
1985/8d              7.9             25.1             13.9             1.5             15.9             11.0
1966/87              6.1             25.6              7.0             2.1             35.1             10.2
1987/68              4.3             21.1             7.4              4.0             12.3              7.7
1988/09              5.2              4.8            12.7             (3.2)            (5.5)             6.2
1989/90              2.2             (0.5)            (1.3)           (0.3)            13.8              0.9
1980-90              6.4             16.0             6.5              2.5             19.3              7.8
/_a ExoLudes ocea.-going transport
Source:  Statistical Ibarbook of China -- 1991, p. 499.



- 60 -
Table 1.4
GUAoNGKONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Chisas Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-ha)
Civil
Year             Rail             Road        Waterways         aviation             Total
1952             20.1              2.3              2.5               0.0             24.9
Nodal split (X)              80.9              9.1              9.9               0.1            100.0
1977            102.3             44.8              9.7               1.8            158.6
Modal spllt (1)              64.5             28.2              6.1               1.2            100.0
1979            121.6             60.3             11.4               3.4            196.7
1940            138.3             73.0             12.9               3.9            228.1
1981            147.3             83.9             13.8               5.0            250.0
1982            157.5             96.4             14.5               5.9            274.3
1983            177.7            110.6             15.4               5.8            309.5
1984            204.6            133.7             15.4               8.3            362.0
1985            241.6            172.5             17.9              11.6            443.6
1986            258.7            198.2             18.2              14.6            489.7
1987            284.3            219.0             19.6              18.7            541.6
1988            326.0            252.8             20.4              21.4            620.6
1989            303.,            266.2             18.8              18.6            607.3
1990            261.3            262.0             16.5              23.0            562.8
Modal split (2)              46.4             46.6              2.9               4.1            100.0
Growth rate (2) p. a.
1952-77              6.7              12.7             5.7              18.9              7.7
1983/84             15.1             20.9              0.0              43.1             17.0
1984/85             18.1             29.0             16.2              39.8             22.5
1985186              7.1              14.9              1.7             25.9             10.4
1986/87              9.9              10.5              7.7             28.1             10.6
1987/88             14.7              15.4             4.1              14.4             14.6
1988/89             (6.6)             5.3              (7.8)           (13.1)            (2.1)
1989/90            (14.0)             (1.6)           (12.2)            23.7             (7.3)
1980-90              6.6              13.6             2.5              19.4              9.5
I_a Excludes ocean-golng transport
Source:  Statiectcal Yearbook of China - 1991, p. 497.



ca
GUANGDONG PROVNCIAL, IGHWAY PROJECT
China:  Investment in the Transport Sector (Including Posts and Telecommmioationa)
(billion Yuan)
6th FP                                     7th FP
lst FYP  Zst FYP             3rd mTP  4th FmP  5th FTP                                                  -------------------------------------
1953-57  1957-63  1963-65  1961-70  1971-75  1976-80    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Transport:
Railway   5.916   10.416    3.395   11.250   17.308    4.047   1.445   2.637   4.221   5.852              7.7     8.5      8.7    10.2       5.6      9.3
Hi~hway       --        --        --        --       --        --   0.799   0.887   0.722   1.196         2.3     2.7      3.3      4.2      4.3     6.8
Waterway       --        --        --        --        --       --   1.295   1.545   1.937   2.629         3.7     3.7      3.9      3.2      3.6      5.3
Aviatior       --        --        --        --       --        --   0.070   0.145   0.299   0.263         2.1     1.3      1.4      1.3      1.0     1.4
Pipeline       --        --        --       --        --        --   0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010         0.1     0.5      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.3
Subtotal       --        --        --        --       --        --   3.627   5.231   7.185   9.950    15.9    16.7    17.4    19.0    14.4    23.1
Post and Telecom.        --        --        --       --        --        --   0.420   0.490   0.619   0.896         1.2     1.3      1.6      1.8     2.3      2.7
Total   9.015   16.330    5.387   16.001   31.759   30.245   4.047   5.721   7.804  10.846    17.1    18.0    19.0    20.8    16.7    25.8
Total capital
investment  58.847  120.609   42.189   97.603  176.395  234.217  44.291  55.553  59.413  74.315   107.4   117.6   134.3   152.6   155.2   170.4
Transport as 2 of
total invests. /_a   15.32    13.52    12.81    16.6!    18.02    12.92    8.22    9.46   12.12   13.46   14.82   14.22   13.02   12.52    9.32   13.62
/-a Investment of mY , before 1980, includes Post and Tel.comaunications (about 62 of total).
Source: Statistical fearbook of China -- 1991, p. 157. 160.



- 62 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Transport Investment vs. Economic output
(billion Yuan)
GNP       Transport
Transport             (current       investment
Year            investment               prices)     as Z of GNP
1966-70  3FYP            15.0 I a             935.0             1.6
1971-75  4FYP            31.8 /a             1323.0             2.4
1976-80  5FYP            30.2 /-a            1758.0             1.7
1981-85  6FYP            41.9                3130.0             1.3
1986-90  7FYP            85.5                6861.7             1.2
1980                   5.9                 447.0             1.3
1981                   3.6                 477.3             0.8
1982                   5.2                 519.3             1.0
1983                   7.2                 580.9             1.2
1984                  10.0                 696.2             1.4
1985                  15.9                 855.8             1.9
1986                  16.7                 969.6             1.7
1987                  17.4                1130.1             1.5
1988                  19.0                1401.8             1.4
1989                  14.4                1591.6             0.9
1990                  18.0                1768.6             1.0
1980-90 average                                                          1.3
/-a Investment of FYP. includes Poet and Telecommunications
(about 4 percent of total)
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China -- 1991, p. 31, 156, and 160.



CSINA
OEASSDOF6 iRovNCIAw HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
MDTOR VEHICLE ONLY HIGHWAYS                                      GENERAL PURPOSE HIGHWAYS
Expressway                   Class 1          Class 2                 Class 2        Class 3          Class 4
Flat  Rolling      Mountainous        Flat    Other      Flat    Other        Flat   Other    Flat   Other    Flat   Other
DESIGN CAPACITY (YER/DAY)
Pasgr car eq.       ............  .000 . .....            .. 10.000-25,000..
Medium truck eq.                                                                 . .. 4,500-7.000...    ..2,000-5,000 .. ... 200-2.000 ...  .... <200.
DESIGN SPEED (KM/H)            120      100        80       60       100       60        80       40          80      40       60      30       40      20
CARRIAGEWAY WIDTH (M)       2x7.5    2x7.5    2x7.5    2x7.5    2x7.5    2x7.0          8.0      7.5         9.0      7.0     7.0     6.0      3.5     3.5
SUBGRADE WIDTH (M)
General               26.0      24.5     23.0      21.5     24.5      21.5     11.0       9.0       12.0      8.5     8.5      7.5     6.5      6.5
Variation               24.5      23.0     21.5      20.0     23.0      20.0      12.0       --          --      --       --      --      7.0     4.5
MIN CURVE RLDIUS (M)           650      400       250       125      400       135      250        60        250       60     125      30       60      15
MIN SIGAT DIST (M)             210      160       110       75       160       75       110       40         110      40       75      30       40      20
MAX GRjqE (Z)                    3        4         5         5        4         6        5         7          5        7       6        8       6       9
SHOULDER WIDTH (M)
Hard - standard          >2.50    >2.50    >2.25    >2.00    >2.50    >2.00
mdnimum                    2.25      1.75      1.50     2.25      1.50
soft                     >0.75    >0.75    >0.50    >0.50    >0.75    >0.50         1.50     0.75        1.50    0.75    0.75    0.75  0.5-1.5 0.5-1.5
MEDIAN WIDTH (M)
standard                3.00     2.00      1.50      1.50     2.00      1.50
minimum                2.00      1.50                        1.50
Source:  "Gonglu Gonacheng Jishu Diaozhun', (Highway Engineering Technical Standardas)  1983  Hiniatry of Coumznications.



_ 64 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCL'L HIGHWAY PROJECT
Chiuas Civilian Motor Vehicles
(thousand)
PASSENGER VEHICLES                      TOTAL
-------------------------                 MOTOR                           NMOTOR
Large    Sma1.   S Total   TRUCKS VEHICLES    TRAILERS TRACTORS   CYCLES    OTHER
1978       88       171       259    1,099    1,358           104                126
1980      130       275       406    1,585    1,991           168                245
1985                          795    2,416    3,211           338    1,784       946
1986                          966    2,654    3,620           344    2,288    1,483
1987      274       841    1,115    2,966    4,081            426    3,747    2,478        305
1988      299    1,004    1,304    3,340    4,644             447    3,916    3,024        318
1989      312    1,152    1,464    3,649    5,113             475    4,104    3,593        375
1990      333    1,289    ',622    3,892    5,514             499    4,626    4,213        411
Annual Growth Rates:
78-85/87        132      19S       172       12S       13S         18X                 33Z
85-87                           182       II%       13K         12S       452       62Z
87-90         72      152       132        92       1i1          52        72       19K       llS
Proportion of individually owneds
1985                            22      i11
1990                            12       152
SOURCE:  Chia Statlstical Yearbook, 1991, p. 512.



- 65 -
Table 1.9
CHINA.
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China:  Highway Freight Transport
FREIGHT TONS         FREIGHT TON-KMS    AVERAGE HAUL (KMS)
-------------------- -------------------- --------------------
Public  Other  Total Public  Other  Total Public  Other  Total
(mile)               (bils)
1979    816  2,894  3,710     27      48     75    33      16     20
1980    760  3,060  3,820     26     51      76    34      17     20
1981    715  2,922  3,637     25     53      78    35      18     21
1982    788  3,004  3,792     30     65      95     38     22     25
1983    791  3,223  4,014     34      75    108     42     23     27
1984    789  4,545  5,334     35    118    154      45     26     29
1985    762  4,619  5,381     35    134    169      46     29     31
1986    785  5,416  6,201     37    175    212      47     32     34
1987    791  6,323  7,114     39    227    266      49     36     37
1988    765  6,558  7,323     42    280    322      55     43     44
1989    697  6,640  7,337     41    297    338      58     45     46
1990    647  6,593  7,240     36    300    336      56     45     46
Average annual growth:
79-84     -1%     9%     8%     6Z    20%    16%
84-90     -3%     6%     5%     0%    17%    14%
Split   1979     22%    782   1002    36%    64%   100%
1990      9%    91Z   1002    11Z    89%   100Z
SOURCE:  China Statistical Yearbook, 1991, p. 498.
Public - Trucks operated by trucking companies affiliated to, or owned
by, the Provincial Transportation Departments.
Other - Trucks operated by other enterprises or by private individuals.



-66-
Tab le 2.1
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Data (1990 prices)
1990                               GOVAI GROWTH
POPU-    GOVAI   PER CAPITA GOVAI         GOVAI in 1990 pri   Annual    Annual
LATION                         tines       --------------    Growth    Growth
(mile)  (Y bile)        (Y)   Nat av          1987  1991 (1)     87-91      90-91
CHINA TOTAL            1,143.3   3,158.7      2,763      1.0
GUANGDONG PROVINCE        62.6     250.4      4,003      1.4         146.6     300.3       19.62     19.92
Pearl River Delta         12.4     127.4    10,281       3.7          70.9     159.6       22.52     25.32
Guangzhou                5.9      48.6      8,187      3.0          33.2      60.1       16.0S     23.62
Foshan                2.8      31.1    11,143       4.0          17.7      38.3       21.32     23.12
Zhongshan                1.2       9.7      8,435      3.1           4.9      11.7       24.32     20.72
Dougguan                1.3      10.6      8,030      2.9           5.7       9.7       14.22     -8.72
Shenshea                0.7      20.9    30,290      11.0           7.4      28.3       39.82     35.32
Zhuhai                0.5       6.5    12,920       4.7           2.1      11.5       53.52     78.32
East Coastal Region       14.8      32.6      2,197      0.8          17.6      36.5       20.02      12.02
Huisho,                2.3       6.6      2,925      1.1           3.1       9.6       33.12     45.62
Shauwdu                2.3       2.6      1,137      0.4   }
Shantou                9.0      19.2      2,142      0.8   )      14.5      26.8       16.62      3.42
Chaozhou                1.3       4.2      3,135      1.1   )
West Coastal Region       16.5      51.4      3,127      1.1          31.1      59.8       17.71      16.22
Jiang en                3.5      20.1      5,680      2.1          11.1      23.6       20.72     17.92
Yangjiang                2.3       4.5      2,013      0.7           3.1       5.6       15.72     23.52
Muming                5.2      12.4      2,378      0.9           8.4      13.3       12.12      7.42
Zhanjiang                5.5      14.5      2,650      1.0           8.5      17.2       19.42     19.02
Inland Region             18.9      39.0      2,065      0.7          26.9      44.5       13.42     14.12
Meashou                4.4       6.4      1,432      0.5           4.1       7.3       15.42     15.02
Heyuan                2.8       2.8      1,011      0.4           2.0       3.1       11.22      9.62
Raoguaag                2.6       8.7      3,115      1.1           6.9      10.5       11.22     20.52
Qinayua                3.4       5.7      1,678      0.6           4.3       5.9        7.82      3.62
Zhaoqln                5.5      15.5      2,807      1.0           9.6      17.8       16.72     14.72
OTHER Pm OVhlCESt
Sichuan Province         108.0     186.0      1,722      0.6
Jiangxi Province          38.1      68.1      1,787      0.6
Shaannx Province          33.2      61.3      1,847      0.7
tinjiang Aut.Reg.         15.3      36.5      2,385      0.9
Shandong Province         84.9     284.9      3,355      1.2
Zhejiang Province         42.3     176.9      4,182      1.5
Jiangsu Province          67.7     334.5      4,943      1.8
NOTE: GOVAI a Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
(1) Eotimated based on the Governor's annual report
SOURCESt China Statietical Yearbook, 1991
Guangdong Statistical Yearbook, 1991
Guangdong Proviancal Comunication Department



cum
GUA_CNG  PROVINIAL  IGMICAT PROJECT
Goaagdong: Degraphic and Transport Network Data, 1990
TRANPORT NETOISSLEG              NTI30RK LEWIG=         TTAL G # Or      * O ofvim
_____________,,__-------    ---------------------------      Or      PER       P
POPUIATION                 Road    Rail   Water        Road    Rail   Water   VECICES 2305POPEM ROAD
(million)    ('000 sq ha)        ('000 1CM)              (mO/'OO sq in)           ('000)
CIIU  TOTL                  1,143.3      9,600.0  1028.3    53.4   109.2        107.1     S.6    31.4          5514     4.8       5.4
SUANOIM PROVIE                 62.5        177.9    54.7    0.68    10.86       307.5     3.8    61.0           402     6.4       7.3
s9ohua  Provim                108.0        560.0    97.2    2.88    7.90        173.6     S.1    14.1           310     2.9       3.2
Jl agzi Province               38.1        160.0    33.2    1.58    4.90        207.5     9.9    30.6           110     2.9       3.3    0
Sbaan i Prowlnee               33.2        190.0    38.0    1.85    0.77        200.0     9.7      4.1          140     4.2       3.7
Zinjing Aut. Reg.              15.3      1,200.0    25.4    1.34    0.00         21.2     1.1      0.0          130     8.5       5.1
Sbangdong Province             84.9        150.0    40.8    2.04      1.84      272.0    13.6    12.3          373      4.4       9.1
Zhejiang Provlnce              42.3        101.8    30.2    0.83   10.62       296.7      8.2   104.3           154     3.6       5.1
Jiangsu Proviuce               67.7        100.0    24.8    0.75   23.67       248.0      7.5   236.7          277      4.1      11.2
Source: China Statistical Yearbook, 1991



-68 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PRO\INCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gunngdong: Road Network, 1985-1991
1. The Entire Network
1981                      1985                     1991
nlasification      Length    Proportion       Length  Proportion       Length  Proportion
Expresaway                                                              23        0.04
Class 1                                                             210        0.38
Class 2          78           0.16         490        0.96        2,154        3.89
Class 3         694           1.39       1,307        2.55        3,947        7.14
Class 4      27,225          54.58      29,220       56.97       32,733       59.18
Unclsssified      21,882          43.87      20,271        39.52      16,240       29.36
Total      49,879         100.00      51,288      100.00       55,307      100.00
2. Provincially Maintained Road Network (1991) /a
Type of Pavement
------------------------------------
Proportion to  Bituminous       Cement      Gravel
Classification    Lengh%    The Network    Surface       Concrete      Surface
(kn)       (percent)                 Pavement
Expressway        23.0           0.13          --         23.0          --
Class 1       215.0           1.19        35.0       180.0           --
Class 2     1,965.0          10.91     1,490.0       475.0           --
Class 3     3,302.0          18.33     2,782.0       520.0           --
Class 4     8,131.0          45.13     3,680.0       518.0      3,933.0
Unclassified     4,379.0          24.31       155.0        247.0     3,977.0
Total      18,015         100.00       8,142       1,963        7,910
/_a the part of the network vhich are maintained vith provincial fund.
Sources: Highway Administration Bureau, Guangdong Provincial Communication Department.



- 69 -
Table 2.4
CHIN
CUAJODOVO PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
reight and P"Senger Traffic, 1985-1990
TONS TRANSPORTED                TON-KILOMETERS              AVERAGE HAUL DISTANCE
Inland &                        Inland &                       Inland &
coastal                         coastal                        coastal
Htihwya  Railway. waterway      Highways  Railways watenways  Highwaye  Railwaye waternays
(oilllone)                      (millions)                     (kilometere)
1985     226.1      34.4    134.4        6,692    11,290    87,646       29.6     327.8      651.9
1986     260.8      38.5     147.1       8,313    12,781    97,491       31.9     331.6    662.6
1987     283.0      40.6    172.4        9,175    14,019   114,838       32.4    345.7    666.1
1988     304.1      45.0    200.4       10,117    15,155   127,967       33.3     336.5      638.5
1989     320.4      48.9     216.3      10,998    16,339   158,037       34.3      344.5    730.8
1990     336.9      48.0    224.8       11,873    17,953   167,578       35.2     373.8      745.6
Average
AnnuAl
Growth (2)       8.3Y      6.92     10.82        12.22      9.7Z     13.82       3.6Z      2.72      2.72
PASSENGERS                PASSENGER-KILOMETERS           AVERAGE TRAVEL DISTANCE
____.___________________________.....__._._. ________________- -- - -- - -- - -- --- - --- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -
Inland                 &        Inland                        &Innd
coastal                         coastal                        coastal
Highways  Railways waterway     Highways  Railways WaterWays  Highways  Railways waterways
(millions)                      (millions)                     (kilometars)
1986     468.4      35.3      29.4      14,459     5,257     2,160       30.9      148.8      73.5
1986     473.6      36.4      28.1      16,774     5,609     2,110       35.4     154.0       75.2
1987     504.0      40.3      29.6      19,689     6,630     2,287       39.1     164.6       77.2
1988     557.2      48.3      30.3      25,374     8,178     2,467       45.5     169.4       81.4
1989     590.5      48.8      29.6      27,621     8,438     2,416       46.8     172.8       81.7
1990     642.9      44.7      26.5      28,752     8,257     2,311       44.7      184.8      87.2
Average
Annual
Growth (2)       6.52      4.82     -2.12        14.7S      9.52      1.42       7.72      4.42      3.5Z
SOURCEs Cuangdong Provincial Communications Department.



cim
GUANGD0NG IUOVICM  BloW   P3ECT
Guaggdung: Length of Highway by ADT. National Roods only
MLieage for Mlxed Traffic (ku)                                       Motor Vehicle Traffic Only (km)
Mileage under               7,000 -   2,000 -       200 -                                     5,000 -   2,000 -       200 -
observation    >10.000    10.000     7,000        2,000       <200               >10,0O0    10,000     5,000        2,000       Z200
(km)           ADT      ADT         ADT         ADT        ADT                    ADT     ADT        ADT         ADT        ADT
1986         3,937        220       1,329      1,853        535          0                    63        389      1,821      1,629         35
1987         3,932         702      1,505      1,255        470          0                   217        992      1,595      1.120          0
1988         3.916       1,032      1.375      1,250        259          0                   216      1,500      1,640        560          0           a
1989          4,048      1,307      1,293      1,080        345          0                   792      1,323      1,280        630          0           o
1990          4,048      1,277      1,499      1,001        271          0                   955      1,550      1066         477          0
1991          4,046      1,548      1,293        970        237          0                 1.366      1,062      1,145        455          0
Source: Date Copiletio of Guangdong Higihay Traffic Counting Survey (BAD under GPCD).



- 71. -
Table 2.6
GUANCG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet, 1986-1991
Special
Trucks      Buses                         purpose
Year         (1)        (2)         cars   Tractors vehbcles    Motorcycles         Total
1986      111,445     17,827    120,305    284,494    4,551        306,628       845,250
1987      119,064     19,227    133,476    304,127    4,861        37S,513       956,268
1988      133,056     22,344    168,795    309,871    4,500 (3)   492,231      1,130,817
1989      147,865     24,860    193,780    343,026    4,052        640,155      1,353,738
1990      152,804     26,294    222,988    357,022    4,335        797,538      1,560,981
1991      174,516     29,400    272,254    476,170    4,600 (3) 1,043,777       2,000,717
Anual grawth rate (S)
1986-1991         9.4Z      10.52       17.7Z      10.92     0.22         27.8:          18.82
(1) Over 7 ton capacity
(2) Over 25-seat capacity
(3) Not available, data presented here reflect mission's estination
Source: Guanadong Provincial Communication Department: Transportation Statistical
data of Guangdong



- 72 -
Table  _.7
CHI"
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Guangdongs Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks
(billion ton-kmn)
Annual tonnage (millions)          Annual ton-kce (billions)         Avg distance (kn)
Public    Social                  Public    Social                   Public    Social
Year     truck     tuck       Total         truck     truck     Total         truck      truck
1985     19.47    206.66    226.13          0.554     6.138      6.69         28.45      29.70
1986     19.58    241.24    260.82          0.569     7.744      8.31         29.06      32.10
1987     19.75    263.20    282.95          0.595     8.580      9.18         30.13      32.60
1288     20.54    283.54    304.08          0.656     9.461      10.12        31.94      33.37
1989     17.73    302.70    320.43          0.636    10.362      11.00        35.87      34.23
1990     16.90    319.97    336.87          0.612    11.261      11.87        36.21      35.19
1991     18.56    336.70    355.26          0.712    12.020      12.73        38.36      35.70
Annual growth:
85-91      -0.82       8.5..     7.82          4.32      11.92     11.32         5.12       3.12
Sourest Guangdong Provincial Communication Department.



- 73 -
Table 2.8
CHINAf
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cuangdongs  Road Safety
Number          Number             Number
of              of             of Person
Year          Accident         Fatalities         Injuried
1985            14,676               1,984              9,316
1986            22,642              2,773              13,484
1987            25,665              3,594              16,172
1988            23,993               3,640             14,635
1989            24,229               3,478             15,133
1990            25,909               3,639             14,875
1991            30,326               4,429             16,979
Sauces Guantgdong Provincial Communication Department.



cuIm&
CUAUODOQr PROVINCIAL HIGOLU PROJECT
Highway Finances
1980     1981     1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     3987     1988      1989     1990   TOTAL
Road Mlateance Fee                145.6   10.1    174.6    205.2    412.2    450.9    789.9    936.6  1,181.1  1,411.5  1,537.0    7,405
xpressway tolls                                                                                                       5.8      21.9       28
Other road and bridge tolls           --                --       --      5.0     15.0    22.5    38.1    66.0        85.9    109.0       341
Passnger tariff surchare              --       --       --       --                -     100.0    135.0    166.0    207.0    269.0       877
Donationsllocl contributions       80.0    100.0    110.0   190.0   290.0    300.0    350.0    405.0    400.0    430.0   450.0   3,105
Provincial grant                    2.5       0.5      0.5      0.5      2.7      4.5      3.0      1.8      0.5      0.5      0.5        17
HOC grant                            1.9       --       --       --     13.5     16.5    59.0      59.5     55.0     88.0      76.3      370
Domaestic Loans                    10.0      30.0     50.0    205.0    210.0    200.0   250.0    255.0    150.0    140.0    150.0    1,650
__ ........-...----    __-----..-...--__----    __------....  ____-____   .....---...-----____-____-___--.. ------....  ------   _  .  __....---... 
240.1    290.6   335.1   600.7    933.3   986.9  1,5/4.4  1,830.9  2,018.6  2,368.6  2,613.7   13,793
UIPZNDIIRES
....................._
Construction and Upgrading:
Expresewvy constuction            --        --       --       --       --       --    30.0    100.0   120.0   205.0    106.0         561
Bridge construction              5.0     25.0      50.0    105.0    160.0    180.0    185.0    190.0    180.0    110.0     60.0    1,250
Uban access and local roads    92.0    120.0    130.0   290.0   310.0   350.0   418.0   50'.0    557.0   600.0    933.0   4,301
Other                           27.6     30.5      39.8    40.8    113.1    66.6   384.9   517.1   572.1    799.2    664.4    3,256
Maintenane:r
Routine                         63.3     79.0    86.8    127.4    237.0    164.1    274.1    219.0    223.0    256.6    268.3    1,999
Periodl                         11.8      13.3     17.1     11.3     40.2     66.1     71.4     9S.5     76.0     90.9    119.4      616
loan repayments                      --      10.0    20.0    30.0    100.0   120.0   100.0    12.0   125.0   100.0    120.0             845
Overhead and other                 44.9     37.8      41.1     42.3     37.4    175.7    169.9    172.4   213.9    421.3    360.6    1,717
Total expenditures                244.6    315.6   384.8   646.7    997.7  1,122.5  1,633.3  1,918.0  2,067.1  2,582.9  2,631.7 14,544.8
SOURCE:  Guangdong Provincial Conmmucatione Department



- 75 -
Table 2.10
GUANCDONG MZOVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cuangdongs Fuel Prie.
(Yuan per liter)
Defore Mareb 20, 1980    Alter August 20, 1984    Current (march 1991)
. . . . . . . . . .....  ..__ __ _. _ _ _ _ _.. __... ____......._._ _.   ..   ----------------------
I_*  nowt:-                    1egoti1                       eSgoti-            Int'l
Plan d ated lb rket   Planned ated l_b   Market  Planned ated /lb Market price /f
(70 oct) |c    0.60        -       -       0.60     0.96     1.11      0.70     1.47    .A.       0.57
lndex       100                        100      1';      183       116      243
Gasolie
(90 oct) / c    0.65       --     --       0.65     0.99     1.14      0.77     1.60   1.70       0.65
tnt 3       100                        100      153      176       119      247    262
Diesel I t      0.51       --      --      0.51     0.97     1.06      0.65      k.61   1.72      0.57
indzi       100                        100      192      210       128      318    340
Inflation I.a
indai--------…-----100--------    -----------129---------        ----------184----------
a a Planed allocation prce.
Pb Negotiated above quota.
ac Prices of gasolLne Include an aggregate ut 43 percent ceAtral government fuel taxes.
rd Prices of di6sel include a 13 percent central government fuel taxes.
re Consumer price index at end-of-yeat- 1983, 1987 and 1990 respectively
i Average wholesale price, for regular/premium unleaded gasoline and No  2 diesel fuel,
103 refirleso, pipeline terminals and inland waterway barge termnanla (March 30, 1992, New Jerse
Souces Guaagdong Provincial Conualcation Department.



- 76 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIHWWAY PROJECT
Planed Highway Development in SFYP
Road Type                                        Length  gEt Cost
(km)    (Y nil)
High Class Highways
Guangzhou-Shenzhen Highway                120          --
Foshan-Kaiping Highway                     80       1,520
Longgang-TanDi Highway                    149       1,470
gaimen-Dahoe Highway                       16         179
Huizhou-Shenihen Highway                   64         670
Guangzhou-Huauian Higiway                  23         175
Subtotal                                  452      4,014 (ox G-8)
National and Provincial
Highway upgradingt                               5,500      3,100
of which Class I                                  500
Class II                              2,000
Class II/III                          3,000
Rural penetration roads:                          2,500        300
Paving gravel roados                              5,000      2,200
TOTAL CONSTRUCTED AND UPGRADED                   13,452      9,614



cm"
0u*31m  PIMMREAL 30Ua? P2OIE?
Te of traning                       _er od trainee                                                      Estimated
Sl dawatiom               Perso otba  touf trdli            e    cog $at0m
&onggPF-5     rsa-                   revue    $'000)
Nihi q        i my
1. Ciwrmsv Traimim
£.  1^tim  Taats             40 pte o        0.5 25th     10             10             5      as    37               ?=J.ct usasgast G 4                Study tour for senior personel.
pesnfor ta. usgwy                                                                    engineering Staff at hight
o d 10 perem                                                                  leve, Including iterpreter.
0.5      Ilper    for                                                                  se"or enginers m  eineer.
the RIP coc.ant
subtotal-lonpett io   T            50                      10           12             5       25     U
S. Stninl  Abroad
1. Project pling         4 prsos I 5                    6                          _       12      t6             Planning staff at hig  *W          ludes project preparation, appraisal,
msgm&mt              umibslpereo                                                                               WdIM levela                        cyc y , bgting. hisb4
V_nft Po@"tw-isl of ccapleted
Project*. 
2. Deg                   3 pvroms I 6                   6            12            .        1    144              Dsinrs at hibg  nd Mr l=         fT CAD, drd                  rc _ae
/par*cm                                                                                 levels                             dosig, pam"et design. 
J. Construction          6 perme a   3                  9             9                     16   14              Censtructiom mangement ad          Mcbenize rod    cosatructio  t eheui
Iothslpere                                                                              eninerin  staff at high and         sphalt pavemnts, sA   preventi,
SWMdln  lews                      eamazement of r"ad construction
..e atims            S pe rsoo  6 2                 6             J                     9      72             Enginerin  staff at high sA       Operation  of expressways dth eobasi -
aamstrstbo           nthelperei.                                                                             mediu, Levels to be responsiole   toll facilities, mnitoring and
for operations edminiatratio      telecaniostin epst   and as of
c omputers in thsse fields.
S.      t                2 peocn   f 3                  9             5           -         6      48               namet ad 4nieri                 Incldes slectio  of mateane
mouthalpere"                                                                             Staff In matnance agecies         equipmsnt,  mintenace of asplt and
coner te pavnaont. MIRID.
S.   inacil s&fare    2 pers                            5 I                       *         6      4-             Staff in finncial _magement       Iccldas loan,  accunting for bhizbms.
montbalpsrtca                                                                                                        financial ed accinting reports, auditit
and financial analyses.
subotal-Training Abre              20                                                         Lo d6   552
PIF
goa



- 78 -                        Table 3.1
1  1g iii!           j
*~    ' ff  5         a       ;'    "
$1      .4. X                U' f  
1!] ~ ~~~ o          Io I         IoI II oi i
44 w



Me of t      tlaus                   mer of tnal.s t                                                     tiatet
ga duAration                Parm   ataof traln!W&        Ta      Moet                      fcqtm                                    a
nI. bu,waIaa Tr
A. ,pnke           Q
r.     -
la) _r I            IN I   as a    1.6 193                      i          .                Iso             staff at atism cad Ia l}ae        S cI... 
-U
(b) 0ral   2ra o . I I2                                         14           -   .0          16            S.aLor.qarVer.                     llsaI  Ic
treat s     et, nmc c
(ci agem  S         8 Pocono                       S             S                    6       4               affIc auerhs £uprntar           I la..    tic" of easrt. ,t mos-
scowlp.rsen                                                                                                                        F       t. coostanetic amaga-
I  _ nuiauatl.r, brIde Use
i. 11a oom.at                                                                                                                                               I ag-.mt rowd ad prmato
I __nU
(a)  _r    1        85pr 1      I                  *             *           55      5       1p              ap-r, aiaeta ughmrs.   I etla. 
(bGrow_ 2           50     e         1.5                                     is .     is      7             Cslamersm aSait6a .rgia.ra        I lole  J 
3. Dm.at  tradnwe    45 pr_eu I 14.13                27.5           20           12.s    so    120
tbi
ubtftal-4 S     Tr .1 fj                                              s24             0           4
1.                .     2 pr         1                 1             1                    a 2    24            Salor muparcgea
2.  t     2             48 pVrnon I1                  2             16            t0     46    304              Sanlar ,aAmnr.. ag1nara
m.utblp.raan
Subtotal-wain% Abrod                                       2            16      1     0      4e    406
Tatal-S,aIec frali            S7                                       3440         J3fl   >        756
OR= fIul-23*I3 NllM                                      M36          248         162.5  77.5  I.a23
1(trninta m to.                                                                                          SS2
otal Coat                                                                                         2.035
00 a
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
rO a



-80 -                                       T *blo 3ZR
UgMIQDO  RPON I  GE(a PRORC
PoetCost StMIna
(arch 1992 prices)
(81.00 - y 5.45)
Local    Foreign   Total    Loca lForeign  Total    Poreig
-  Y million) --        ----  (S million) ----    cost CU
A.   Wbrks
(a) Foshan-Kalping Highway
(i) Civll works                     692.00    498.00  1,190.00  126.97   91.38  218.35         42
(ii) ESE supply and installatiou      15.00     35.00     5O;00    2.75    6.42    9.17         70
(b) Louggang-Tanri Highway
Ci) Civil works                     760.00    549.00  1,309.00  139.45  100.73  240.18         42
(ii) R&I  supply and Installation      6.00     15.00      21.00    1.10    2.75    3.85        71
(c) Road Improvement Program            358.53    168.72    527.25   65.79   30.96   96.75         32
(d) Road Safety Pilot Program             1.36      0.82       2.18    0.25    0.15    0.40        38
Subtotal                              1.832.89  1.266.54  3.099.43  336.31  232.39  568.70         41
B. Sunervislon of Constructlon
(a) loshan-Kalping Highway               15.44      9.27      24.71    2.83    1.70    4.53        38
(b) Loanggang-Tawri Highway              20.83     10.57      31.40    3.82    1.94    5.76        34
(c) Road Improvemet Program               6.25      0.00       6.25    1.15    0.00    1.15         0
Subtotal                                  42.52     19.84      62.36    1L.    3.64   11.44         l
C. Eanulment
Ca) losban.-alplnglL.nggang-Tanzi
Mi) Supervision/laboratories          0.53      4.80      5.33    0.10    0.88    0.98         90
Cii) Operation and maintenance         2.60     39.95      42.55    0.47    7.33    7.80        94
Ciii) Environmental/research            1.99      5.32       7.39    0.37    0.99    1.36        73
(b) Road Improvemeut Program
Ci) Supervision                       0.24      3.76       4.00    0.04    0.69    0.73        94
(ii) Provincial road maintenance       0.00     12.15      12.15    0.00    2.23    2.23       100
Mill) PYS/RDB                           0.43      2.89       3.32    0.08    0.53    0.61        87
(c) Road Safety Pilot Program             0.00      0.38       0.38    0.00    0.07    0.07       100
Subtotal                                   1fl      69.3       75.      1.06   12.72   13.78        92
D.    Staff Tralai_naTechRLcal Asslstance
(a) General training                      0.70      6.38       7.08    0.13    1.17    1.30        90
(b) Supervision trainaig                  1.86      2.23       4.09    0.34    0.41    0.75        55
(e) Hlghway financing technical
asesitace                             0.37      0.33       0.70    0.07    0.06    0.13        47
Subtotal                                   2.9        8.94     11.87    0.54   1I.       241,       1
Base cost                                   1.884.13  1.364.64  3.248.77  345.71  250.39  5L9.10 
Physical contingency /a                       187.54    128.64    316.18   34.41   23.60   58.01         41
Price contingency Lb                          357.07    141.87    498.94   65.52   26.04   91.56          28
Bae cost with contlAgency                    .4L2J. 1.6)5.15  i. -a  445.64  300.03  745.67              it
S. Land Acmuieltion and Rea*_jem              269.55       0.00    269.55   49.46    0.00   49.46          0
Total oso1eet cost LS                  3jS92   1.635.15  4.333.44  492.10  300.03  795.13           Al
/ Ten percent of iteum A and B.
Price contingency for local and foreign cosats  142 end 6X2  repectively, for items A(c) and ACd)g 16X
and 102, respectively, for the remaining Ltems.
La Identifiable tazes and duties are about Y 81 million.



-81 -                             Table 3.3
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVIMCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
($ million)
Disbursement
profile
of transport
Estimated disbursements        projects
Bank fiscal year and semester           Semester   Cumulative   x   in China (Z)
1993
June 30, 1993                            24           24ta    10           0
1994
December 31, 1993                        10           34       14          6
June 30, 1994                            14           48       20         11
1995
December 31, 1994                        17           65       27         16
June 30, 1995                            21           86       36         26
1996
December 31, 1995                        20          106       44         38
June 30, 1996                            24          130       54         48
1997
Deceaber 31, 1996                        26          156       65        60
Js%1e 30, 1997                           26          182       76        69
1998
December 31, 1997                        27          209       87         70
June 30, 1998                            19          228       95         76
1999
December 31, 1998                         6          234       98         98
June 30, 1999                             6          240      100        100
Notet  Project Completion Date:  June 30, 1998.
Loan/Cre.dit Closing Date: June 30, 1999.
La Including payment of $12.0 million into Special Account, and advance
payments to contractors.
Sourcet Mission's estimate.



cffo
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGMWAT PROJECT
Recent Traffic Growth on the Existiag Fosbon-Baiping Road
Station:                 Nanbal                            klhua                        ShaplB                          Shuikoa
County:                  Shivan                            Shunde                        Heshan                           aipilg
Section:               Foshan City                     Foshan-Beshan                     neshan                      weshan-Kaiping
Vobs (1)  Conv (2)   Kix (3)  Vebs (1)  Conw (2)   HUx (3)  Vobs (1)  Conv (2)  Niz (3)  Vebs (1)  Conw (2)   mix (3)
1M50               4,171      5,941                                                1,749     3,304                1,555      2,677
1981               5,847      7,678                                                2,441     4,112                1,753      3,464
1982               6,424      7,844                                                2,360     4,208                2,402     4,063
1983               6,518      8,214                                                2,630     4,494                2,262     4,450
1984               8,254      9,908                                                3,294     5,559                3,108     5,487
1985               12,110    14,303                                                5,520     9,071                4,526      7,491
1986               14,268    18,176                7,496     8,769                 4,607     8,176                6,199      9,855
1987              12,228    14,550                 9,350    11,002                 6,498    10,289                6,692    11,600
1988    18,177    13,789    17,812    16,185    11,287    13,789    11,091         8,096    12,558     8,730      6,892    11,254
1989 (4)    20,529    14,090    16,605                11,095    13,178                10,330    14,556                7,143    11,382
1969 (4)    20,529    14,090    16,605    13,676       9,120    10,807    12,591       8,935    13,229      9,062     7,009      8,967        Os
1990    26,760    17,306    19,994    15,437    10,060    11,921    14,095         9,763    14,404    13,492    10,754    13,758
1991    31,074    19,547    22,266    19,956    13,06S    15,635    17,028    11,721    16,814    11,749          9,796    12,261
Anual Growths
80-86                 22.71     20.52                                                17.52     16.32                25.92      24.32
86-89                                                14.02      14.52                30.9S     21.22                 4.82       4.92
87-91                 12.42     11.22
89-91      23.02      17.82     15.82      20.82     19.72      20.32     16.32      14.52     12.72      13.92     18.22      16.92
SOUBCE8s: 60a_adn PorWincial Commnications Department
(1) Total motor vehicles (trucks, buses and cars).
(2)  Total motor vehicles converted to mdlum truck
equdvaleonts.
(3) Total traffic, inluding motor vehicles, tractors, bicycles and
other trafflc, converted to equivalnt medium trucks.
(4) There was a dlicontinuity in the counting series for saoe count
stations In this yer.
.1H



- 83 -
Cfl
CUASODOS PROVIRCIAL HIOGUVY PROJECT
Recent Traffic Growth on the Existing Longgang-Tanxi Road
StatIosn sHudonsy                                      Haifeng                         Lu? ong
County$                Pingshan                        BaichenB                       EBsa
section:           Lonag-Balyun                      Houmen-Tanxi                    Boumen-Tanr
V b. (1)  Coun  (2)   Mix (3)  Vohs (1)  Conw (2)   H.' (3)  Vahb  (1)  Conw (2)   lix (3)
1980                           2,104                          2,772                           1,488
1981                          4,351                           3,487                           1,333
1982                          3,741                           3,736                           1,462
1983                          3,473                           2,906                           2,105
1984                          4,048                           4,650                           4,135
1985                           4,777                          5,180                           499o
1986                           6,939                          6,937                           6,537
1987                          10,459                          8,941                           6,758
1988     9,366      8,195    11,996      7,139      6,461     8,813                           9,598
1989    11,697      9,582    14,294      7,438      6,593     7,157      7,866      7,209    10,709
1990    14,498    11,527    16,537       7,327      6,684     7,870      7,509      7,030    10,420
1991    16,011    13,932    19,478    10,522        9,152    10,198      8,946      8,333    10,710
Annual Crowth:
80-91                            22.42                           12.62                           19.7w
66-91 (4)      24.42       19.32     17.5:      13.86     12.3t       5.02      6.62       7.52       30TF
90-91      24.22      20.92      17.82     43.6:      36.9:     29.62      19.12      18.52      a.
sOURcESs  Guangdons Provincall Coiomcutcio   Department
(1) Total motor vehicles (trucks, buses and cars).
(2) Total motor vehicles coaverted to mediu truck
equivalent.
(3) Total traffic, Including motor vehicles, tractors, bicycle. and
other traffic, converted to equivalent medium trucks.
(4) 89-91 for Lufong Station.



CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Counts on Longgang-Tanxi, October 16-18, 1991
(24-hour vehicles)
SMALL      LGE                NED    LARGE       VEHICLES
STATION                       VEH-MIC    TRUCK      CONT      BUS      BUS    Total Convert    TRACT    MIXED
Equiv truck factors:      0.5      1.5      2.0       1.0      1.5                         1.0
1 Tongle                           4,928       755      400    5,112      630   11,825   10,454        52   10,506
2 Danshui                          7,638       666      316    3,222       593   12,436    9,562    1,434   10,996
3 Pishan                           3,325    1,516       349    3,932    1,112   10,234   10,235       284   10,519
4 Jilong                           2,802    1,383       318    3,568    1,141    9,211    9,390        425    9,816
5 Ebu                              1,637    1,680       315    2,817    1,087    7,536    8,416        142    8,558
6 Hongyvan                         1,817    1,522       310    3,098    1,080    7,826    8,528        491    9,019
7 Heilong                          2,498    1,937       356    2,744    1,118    8,653    9,288    19433   10,721
8 Raicheng                         3,642    1,180       315    3,645    1,124    9,906    9,552       562   10,115
9 Tanyang                          2,241       784      288    3,589    1,312    8,215    8,431        775    9,206
10 Bomei                            2,524    1,362       292    3,164    1,069    S,411    8,657       362    9,019
Average Flow                     3,305    1,279       126    3,489    1,027    9,425    9,251       596    9,847
Z vehicle distribution            35.1Z    13.62      3.5Z    37.01    10.91   100.01    98.21      6.3Z   10&.SZ



- 85 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Guangdongt  Projected Traffic on the Foshan-Kaiping Highway
(thousand. of equivalent passenger car units per day)
SECTIONs              VaSHAN-HESH&N           HESH&N-SVuIKOU
NEW HIGHWAY LENGTHs        (39.5 kss)            (40.3 km.)
YEAR:                 1997   2005   2015   1997   2005   2015
Without New Highway
Existing Highway          31.9  36.9   37.1   14.0  20.9   22.7
With New Highway
Assuming no tolls:
Existing Highway:    18. j   26.9   38.4    4.6    5.5    7.8
New Highways
Diverted traffic      13.9   16.8   17.3    9.5  15.4   17.3
Generated traffic      1.4    7.4   21.2    0.9    1.5    9.4
Total New Highway    15.3   24.3   38.5   10.4   16.9   26.7
Assuming tolls:
Existing Highway      18.9   28.3   40.5    6.3    8.4   12.4
New Highway           12.7   20.1   32.0    8.6   14.0   22.2
SOURCE:  Gu0ngdong Provincial Communications Department
and Bank estimates.
NOTE: Traffic estimates for the existing highway include
estimates of local traffic, and also reflect
congestion-induced restrictions on traffic growth.
Generated traffic on the new highway includes suppressed
demand released by the new highway.



- 86 -
CHIN
CUANODOE  PROVINCIAL hIGWY PROJECT
Cuangdong: Projected Traffic on the LongEsng-Tanui Highway
(thousands of equivalent pasengor car unlts per day)
SECT- O n             LONG -GDABlUU         DAIYUN-HOU=EN        HOUMN-TANII
mEm BIGHWAY LENCTG:      (53 RMS)             (47 U(S)             (49 UMS)
TEAR:                1997  2005   2015   1997  2005   2015   1997   2005   2015
Without No aighway
Existing Highway         21.5  30.1  30,4   18.3  28.6  28.5  18.1  27.0  27.1
With nov Highway
____...___0_____.
Aesuming no toll s
Existing Highway:    10.5  16.9  27.3  10.3  16.3  26.2  11.0  17.1  27.2
Nev Highway:
Diverted traffic     11.0  15.5  15.7   8.0  12.7  12.7   7.1  10.9  11.1
Generated traffic     1.1   4.0  15.1   0.8   1.6   9.8    0.7    1.8   8.9
Total Naw Highway    12.1  19.5  30.8   8.8  14.3  22.5   7.8   12.7  20.0
Assuming tollns
ExistLng Highway     11.2  18.0  29.1  11.8  18.7  30.0  12.3  19.2  30.6
now Highway          10.1  16.2  25.6   7.3  11.9  18.7    6.5   10.5  16.6
SO RCEsa Guangdong Provlacial Comicaitons Departmnt a0 Bank estimates.
MOTE: Traffic estimates for the exiting htghway includo estimates of local traffic,
and also reflect congestion-induced restrictions on traffic growth.
Generated traffic on the new highway includes suppressed demand released
by the new highway.



- 87 -
Zakt416
GUANGOO  PNVNCIAL a1GAY PRlonCT
istimted Construction Costs of Major hlgbways
Toewn-Kuiping and Longgang-Taf-z
(Y .11, 1992)
MOSHAN-KAXPIN  HIGHWAY              LO4CGAAN-TANXI HIGEWAY
..... .............    ......_.___............._.._._._.,_____.___ .....
Zieban   Heshan               Longgang   Ialyun   Boumen
to       to                    to       to        to
COST ITES             leshan  Shuikou    Total        Baiyun   1eamen    Taxi    Total
_.____...................._._  .......   _.___.......... __ .............   ..  _ ............  --------  --------..------- _ ---------_ .... ____ . ...___ .....__.__
Civil  ngirneearg Costa         907      283    1,190           402      409      498    1,309
Electrical and Mechanical        33       17       50             8        6         7       21
Construction SupervIsion         17        7       25            10       10        10       31
Laboratory testin                 4        2         6            2        2         2        6
._.__._._.   -----___ .. ...    _.._.    ---      .....    -----
Bass Coat                       961      310    1,271           423      428      518    1,368
Physical Contingency (1)         96       31       126           42       43        52      136
Price Contingency (2)           154       49      203            68       69       83       220
.___ --  ----_    .. .. .       ----     .._._    -----     ----
Sub-total                     1,211      390    1,601           532      539      652    1,723
Land and Resettlement            92       42       133           29       28        32       Be
.;..    -----  .   - --         -- ---    .....    ---;      --
Financial Coat                1,303      431    1,734           561      567      684    1,812
Economic Coat (3)             1,399      465    1,863           600      606      730    1,936
Distribution by year:
1992                    92        42      133           29        51       59       139
1993                   157        51      208           74        81       98       253
1994                   301        97      398          143       116      140       398
1995                   392       127      519          171       173      210      554
1996                   353       114      467          137       139      168       444
1997                   105        34      138           46        46       56       148
1,399      465    1,863          600       606      730    1,936
(1) 10S of Base Cost, except laboratory coats
(2) Local - 181 of Base Cost plus Physical Contingency
Foreign a 102 of Base Cost plus Physical Contingency
(3)  Total cost less contractor taxes, le  price contingency, all factored by 1-25.
(1.25   financial-to-economic conversion factor)



- au -
Table 4.7
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Average Economic Vehicle Operating Costs oy Vehicle
Class, Pavement Type and Cnndition, and Terrain
(1991 Y per km)
GOOD                 FAIR                 P-OOR             VERY PooR M
VEHICLE       Plat/                 Plat/                 Plat/                Flat/
CLASS         Roll   Hill Mount    RoU   Hill Mount   Roll   Hill Mount    Roll   Hill  Mount
Paved Highvays
Small car      1.00  1.05  1.08      1.12  1.17  1.20      1.45  1.50  1.i3     1.68  1.72  1.76
Small bus      0.65  0.77  0.87      0.75  0.87  0.97      0.96  1.07  1.17     1.05  1.18  1.29
Medium bus     1.02  1.19  1.33      1.21  1.39  1.53      1.60  1.75  1.89     1.77  1.93  2.09
Large buas     1.35  1.65  1.91      1.51  1.82  2.07      1.83  2.12  2.38     1.98  2.28  2.56
Small truck    0.35  0.44  0.51      0.40  C.48  0.55      0.48  0.56  0.64     0.52  0.61  0.70
Medium Truck   0.47  0.58  0.69      0.53  0.65  0.76      0.64  0.76  0.88     0.69  0.82  0.94
Large Truck    0.78  0.96  1.13      0.87  1.06  1.22      1.03  1.22  1.40     1.05  1.24  1.42
Tract-Trail    1.28  1.68  2.04      1.39  1.80  2.16      1.65  2.05  2.41     1.74  2.14  2.52
Unpaved Highways
________________
Small car      1.35  1.41  1.44      1.77  1.83  1.85      2.42  2.46  2.49
Small bus      0.90  1.06  1.16      1.10  1.24  1.33      1.39  1.51  1.60
Medium bus     1.51  1.72  1.86      1.85  2.05  2.18      2.35  2.52  2.65
Large bus      1.77  2.12  2.37      2.07  2.40  2.64      2.51  2.82  3.06
Sma.l truck    0.46  0.56  0.64      0.54  0.64  0.72      0.66  0.76  0.84
Medium Truck   0.61  0.75  1.13      0.70  0.85  1.29      0.86  1.00  1.52
Large Truck    0.79  0.99  1.16      0.88  1.08  1.25      1.05  1.24  1.42
Tract-Trail    1.38  1.76  2.09      1.49  1.88  2.21      1.71  2.10  2.44
/ a   only for evaluating the replacement of old and deteriorated pavement which cannot be
setrengthed by overlaying.
SOURCE: Guangdong Province Transport Study, World Bank, 1990,
updated by 102 to 1991



- 89 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT              Table 4.8
Economic Evaluation without Tolling
Foshan-Kaiping Highway
(millions of Yuan, 1991)
XIEBAN-HESHAN (40 KHS)  HESHAN-SHUIKOU (40 KMS)           TOTAL (80  RMS)
Cost Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total
1992    92.0            (92.0)   42.0             (42.0)  134.0            (134.0)
1993   152.0           (152.0)   46.0             (46.0)  198.0            (198.0)
1994   296.0           (296.0)   92.0             (92.0)  388.0            (388.0)
1995   387.0           (387.0)  122.0            (122.0)  509.0            (509.0)
1996   348.0           (348.0)  109.0            (109.0)  457.0            (457.0)
1997   100.2   321.9   221.7    29.2    90.4    61.2   129.4   412.3   282.9
1998     0.2   359.3   359.1       0.2   111.0   110.8       0.4   470.3   469.9
1999     0.2   401.1   400.9       0.2   136.2   136.0       0.4   537.4   537.0
2000     0.2   447.9   447.7       0.2   167.4   167.2       0.4   615.3   614.9
2001     0.2   472.1   471.9       0.2   180.2   180.0       0.4   652.3   651.9
2002     6.3   497.6   491.4       0.2   194.1   193.9       6.4   691.7   685.3
2003     0.2   524.7   524.5       0.2   209.1   208.9       0.4   733.8   733.4
2004     0.2   553.4   553.2       0.2   225.3   225.1       0.4   778.6   778.2
2005     0.2   583.8   583.6       0.2   242.7   242.5       0.4   826.5   826.1
2006     0.2   610.1   609.9       0.2   254.,-  254.3    O.    864.6   864.2
2007    12.3   637.8   625.5    12.0   267.0   255.0    24.3   904.8   880.5
2008     0.2   666.9   666.7       0.2   280.1   279.9       0.4   947.0   946.6
2009     0.2   691.6   697.4       0.2   293.9   293.7       0.4   991.5   991.1
2010     0.2   729.9   729.7       0.2   308.5   308.3       0.4 1,038.3 1,037.9
2011     0.2   781.0   780.8       0.2   330.0   329.8       0.4 1,111.0 1,110.6
2012     0.2   835.6   835.4       0.2   353.1   352.9       0.4 1,188.8 1,188.4
2013     0.2   894.1   893.9       0.2   377.9   377.7       0.4 1,272.0 1,271.6
2014     0.2   956.7   956.5       0.2   404.3   404.1       0.4 1,361.0 1,360.6
2015     0.2 1,023.7 1,023.5       0.2   432.6   432.4       0.4 1,456.3
2016  (687.4)1,095.4 1,782.8  (219.9)  462.9   582.8  (907.3)1,558.3
NPV 1991   885.7 2,443.7 1,558.0   287.5   947.2   659.7 1,173.2 3,390.9 2,217.7
B/C RATIO                      2.8                       3.3                      2.9
EIRR                          24.2Z                     25.8Z                    24.22
PYRR 1997                     18.82                     16.32                    18.22
NOTES: Costs are for construction (I992-1997), routine maintenance, pavement
repairs (2002), periodic maintenance (2007), and construction salvage
value (2016).
Benefits are from diverted highway traffic and newly generated traffic.



- 90 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 4.9
Economic Evaluation with Tolling
Foshan-Kaiping Highway
(millions of Yuan, 1991)
WOSHA-HESHAM (40 KMS)  HESHAI-FSHUIKOU (40 EMS)          TOTA  (80 EN)
Cost Benefit   Total    Coat Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total
1992    92.0            (92.0)   42.0             (42.0)  134.0           (134.0)
1993   157.0           (157.0)   51.0             (51.0)  208.0           (208.0)
1994   301.0           (301.0)   97.0             (97.0)  398.0           (398.0)
1995   392.0           (392.0)  127.0           (127.0)  519.0            (519.0)
1996   353.0           (353.0)  114.0           (114.0)  467.0            (467.0)
1997   105.2   276.8   171.6    34.2    77.8    43.6   139.4   354.6   215.2
1998     1.1   309.0   307.9       1.1    95.4    94.4      2.2   404.4   402.3
1999     1.1   345.0   343.9       1.1   117.2   116.1      2.2   462.1   460.0
2000     1.1   385.2   384.1       1.1   143.9   142.8      2.2   529.1   527.0
2001     1.1   406.0   404.9       1.1   155.0   153.9      2.2   561.0   558.8
2002     7.1   428.0   420.8       1.1   166.9   165.8      8.2   594.9   586.7
2003     1.1   451.2   450.2       1.1   179.8   178.7      2.2   631.1   628.9
2004     1.1   475.9   474.8       1.1   193.7   192.6      2.2   669.6   667.5
2005     1.1   502.0   501.0       1.1   208.7   207.7      2.2   710.8   708.6
2006     1.1   524.7   523.6       1.1   218.9   217.8      2.2   743.6   741.4
2007    13.2   548.5   535.3    12.9   229.6   216.7    26.1   778.1   752.0
2008     1.1   573.6   572.5       1.1   240.9   239.8      2.2   814.4   812.3
2009     1.1   599.9   598.9       1.1   252.7   251.7      2.2   852.7   850.5
2010     1.1   627.7   626.6       1.1   265.3   264.2      2.2   893.0   890.8
2011     1.1   671.6   670.6       1.1   283.8   282.8      2.2   955.5   953.3
2012     1.1   718.7   717.6       1.1   303.7   302.6      2.2 1,022.4 1,020.2
2013     1.1   769.0   767.9       1.1   325.0   323.9      2.2 1,093.9 1,091.8
2014     1.1   822.8   821.7       1.1   347.7   346.6      2.2 1,170.5 1,168.3
2015     1.1   880.4   879.3       1.1   372.1   371.0      2.2 1,252.4
2016  (699.0)  942.0 1,641.0  (231.5)  398.1   629.6  (930.5)1,340.1
NPV 1991   905.0 2,101.6 1,196.6   306.8   814.6   507.8 1,211.8 2,916.2 1,704.4
B/C RATIO                     2.3                       2.7                      2.4
EIRR                         21.5Z                     22.7Z                    21.42
FYRR 1997                     15.8X                    13.32                     15.2X
NOTES: Coots are for construction (1992-1997), routine maintenance, pavement
repairs (2002), periodic maintenance (2007), and construction salvage
value (2016).
Benefits are from diverted highway traffic and newly generated traffic.



- 91 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT              Table 4.10
Economic Evaluation Sensitivity Test with Tolling
Foshan-Kaiping Highway
(costs increased 10, benefits decreased 102, in millions of Yuan, 1991)
VOSKA-HESHA  (40 KI4)  HESHaN-SHUIKO'U (40 KES)         TOTAL (to DRS)
Coot Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total      Cost Benefit   Total
1992   101.2          (101.2)   46.2            (46.2)   147.4           (147.4)
1993   172.7          (172.7)   56.1            (56.1)   228.8           (228.8)
1994   331.1          (331.1)  106.7           (106.7)   437.8           (437.8)
1995   431.2          (431.2)  139.7           (139.7)  570.9            (570.9)
1996   388.3          (388.3)  125.4           (125.4)   513.7           (513.7)
1997   115.7   249.1   133.4    37.6    70.0   32.4    153.3   319.1   165.8
1998     1.2  278.1   276.9       1.2    85.9    84.7      2.4   364.0   361.6
1999     1.2  310.5   309.3       1.2   105.4   104.3      2.4   415.9   413.5
2000     1.2  346.7   345.5       1.2   129.5   128.3      2.4   476.2   473.8
2001     1.2  365.4   364.2       1.2   139.5   138.3      2.4   504.9   502.5
2002     7.8  385.2   377.3       1.2   150.2   149.0      9.0   535.4   526.4
2003     1.2  406.1   404.9       1.2   161.8   160.6      2.4   567.9   565.6
2004     1.2  428.3   427.1       1.2   174.3   173.2      2.4   602.7   600.3
2005     1.2  451.8   450.7       1.2   187.9  186.7       2.4   639.7   637.3
2006     1.2  472.2   471.0       1.2   197.0   195.8      2.4   669.2   666.8
2007    14.5  493.7   479.2    14.2   206.6   192.5       28.7   700.3   671.6
2008     1.2  516.2   515.0       1.2   216.8   215.6      2.4   733.0   730.6
2009     1.2  539.9   538.8       1.2   227.5   226.3      2.4   767.4   765.0
2010     1.2  564.9   563.7       1.2   238.7   237.6      2.4   803.7   801.3
2011     1.2  604.5   603.3       1.2   255.5   254.3      2.4   859.9   857.6
2012     1.2  646.8   645.6       1.2   273.3   272.1      2.4   920.1   917.7
2013     1.2  692.1   690.9       1.2   292.5   291.3      2.4   984.5   982.2
2014     1.2  740.5   739.3       1.2   312.9   311.8      2.4 1,053.4 1,051.1
2015     1.2  792.3   791.2       1.2   334.8  333.7       2.4 1,127.2
2016  (768.9)  847.8 1,616.7  (254.7)  358.3   613.0 (1,023.6)1,206.1
NPV 1991   995.5 1,891.4   895.9   337.5   733.1   395.6  1,333.0 2,624.5 1,291.6
B/C RATIO                     1.9                     2.2                       2.0
BIRR                         18.7Z                   20.02                     18.5Z
FYRR 1997                    13.02                   10.92                     12.42
NOTES: Costs are for construction (1992-1997), routine maintenance, pavement
repairs (2002), periodic maintenance (2007), and construction salvage
value (2016).
Benefits are from diverted highway traffic and newly generated traffic.



- 92 -
CHINA
WANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGMWAY PROJECT                           Table  4.11
Economic Evaluation without Tolling
Longgang-Tanxi. Highway
(millions of Yuan, 1991)
LWNGGANG-BAIrJN (57 KM)  BAIyUN-HOUMEN (43 KM)  HOUMEN-TANXI (47 KM)                     TOTAL (146 1M9)
Cost Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total            Cost Benefit   Total
1992    29.0             (29.0)   51.0             (51.0)   59.0              (59.0)   139.0            (139.0)
1993    70.0             (70.0)   77.0             (77.0)   94.0             (94.0)   241.0             (241.0)
1994   139.0            (139.0)  112.0            (112.0)  136.0            (136.0)   387.0             (387.0)
1995   167.0            (167.0)  169.0            (169.0)  205.5            (205.5)   541.5             (541.5)
1996   133.0            (133.0)  135.0            (135.0)  163.5            (163.5)   431.5             (431.5)
1997    46.3   283.0   236.8    46.2   129.0    82.8    56.2   129.6    73.4    148.7   541.7   392.9
1998     0.3   335.2   334.9        0.2   158.3   158.1       0.2   155.7   155.5        0.7   649.2   648.4
1999     0.3   397.1   396.8        0.2   194.5   194.3       0.2   187.1   186.8        0.7   778.7   777.9
2000      0.3   470.7   470.4       0.2   9.39.2   238.9      0.2   224.8   224.6         0.7   934.7   934.0
2001      0.3   497.6   497.3       0.2   267.4   267.2       0.2   244.0   243.7         0.7 1,009.0 1,008.2
2002      0.3   526.2   525.9       1.6   299.1   297.5       5.1   264.8   259.7         7.1 1,090.1 1,083.1
2003      0.3   556.6   556.3       0.2   334.8   334.5       0.2   287.5   287.3         0.7 1,178.8 1,178.1
2004     0.3   588.8   588.6        0.2   374.9   374.6       0.2   312.3   312.0         0.7 1,276.0 1.275.2
2005      0.3   623.2   622.9       0.2   420.0   419.8       0.2   339.3   339.0         0.7 1,382.5 1,381.7
2006      0.3   661.8   661.6       0.2   447.6   447.3       0.2   361.0   360.8         0.7 1,470.4 1,469.7
2007    16.2   703.1   687.0    14.3   477.0   462.7    14.9   384.3   369.3            45.4 1,564.5 1,519.0
2008      0.3   747.2   746.9       0.2   508.6   508.4       0.2   409.2   408.9         0.7 1,665.0 1,6b4.2
2009      0.3   794.2   794.0       0.2   542.5   542.3       0.2   435.8   435.5         0.7 1,772.5 1,771.8
2010      0.3   844.5   844.2       0.2   578.9   578.6       0.2   464.3   464.0         0.7 1,887.6 1,886.9
2011     0.3   903.6   903.3        0.2   619.4   619.1       0.2   496.8   496.6         0.7 2,019.8 2,019.0
2012      0.3   966.8   966.6       0.2   662.7   662.5       0.2   531.6   531.3         0.7 2,161.1 2,160.4
2013      0.3 1,034.5 1,034.2       0.2   709.1   708.9       0.2   568.8   568.5         0.7 2,312.4 2,311.7
2014      0.3 1,106.9 1,106.7       0.2   758.8   75e.5       0.2   608.6   608.4         0.7 2,474.3 2,473.5
2015      0.3 1,184.4 1,184.1       0.2   811.9   811.6       0.2   651.2   651.0         0.7 2,647.5 2,646.7
2016  (291.9)1,267.3 1,559.2  (294.9)  868.7 1,163.6  (356.9)  696.8 1,053.7   (943.6)2,832.8 3,776.4
NPV 1991   378.2 2,600.7 2,222.5   385.6 1,579.4 1,193.8   466.5 1,348.0   881.5  1,230.3 5,528.1 4,297.8
B/C RATIO                      6.9                        4.1                       2.9                         4.5
IEIR                          S0.9X                      28.22                     23.62                       30.92
FYIR 1997                     38.82                      17.42                     14.41                       22.92
NOTES:  Coste are for construction (1992-1997). routine maintenance, savement
repairs (2002), periodic maintenance (2007). end construction salvage
value (2016).
Benefits are Lrom diverted highway traffic and newly generated traffic.



-93 -
CHINA
GIASGDONG PROVINCIAL 91GFWAY PROJECT                                    Table  4.12
Economic Evaluation with Tolling
Longgang-Tanzi Highway
(millions of Yuan, 1991)
WONGGANG-AIYUN (57 KMB)  BAIYUN-HOUMEN (43 KM)  HOUMEN-TAIXI (47 KMB)                  TOTAL (146 KMS)
Coat Benefit   Total    Cost Benefit   Total    Coat Benefit   Total          Cost Benefit   Total
1992    29.0             (29.0)   51.0            (51.0)   59.0             (59.0)   139.0            (139.0)
1993    74.0            (74.0)   81.0             (81.0)   98.0             (98.0)   253.0            (253.0)
1994   143.0           (143.0)  116.0            (116.0)  140.0            (140.0)   399.0            (399.0)
1995   171.0           (171.0)  173.0            (173.0)  209.5            (209.5)   553.5            (553.5)
1996   137.0           (137.0)  139.0            (139.0)  167.5            (167.5)   443.5            (443.5)
1997    46.3   243.4   197.2    46.2   110.9    64.7    56.2   111.5    55.2    148.7   465.8   317.1
;998     1.4   288.2   286.8       1.3   136.2   134.9       1.3   133.9   132.6        4.0   558.3   554.3
1999     1.4   341.5   340.1       1.3   167.3   166.0       1.3   160.9   159.6        4.0   669.6   665.6
2000     1.4   404.8   403.4       1.3   205.7   204.4       1.3   193.4   192.0        4.0   803.8   799.8
2001     1.4   427.9   426.5       1.3   230.0   228.7       1.3   209.8   208.5        4.0   867.7   863.7
2002     1.4   452.5   451.1       2.7   257.2   254.6       6.2   227.7   221.5       10.3   937.5   927.2
2003     1.4   478.7   477.2       1.3   287.9   286.6       1.3   247.3   245.9        4.0 1,013.8 1,009.8
2004     1.4   506.4   505.0       1.3   322.4   321.1       1.3   268.6   267.2        4.0 1,097.4 1,093.3
2003     1.4   535.9   534.5       1.3   361.2   360.0       1.3   291.8   290.5        4.0 1,188.9 1,184.9
2006     1.4   569.2   567.8       1.3   384.9   383.6       1.3   310.5   309.2        4.0 1,264.6 1,260.6
2007    17.3   604.7   587.4    15.4   410.3   394.9    16.0   330.5   314.5           48.7 1,345.4 1,296.7
2008     1.4   642.6   641.1       1.3   437.4   436.2       1.3   351.9   350.6        4.0 1,431.9 1,427.9
2009     1.4   683.0   681.6       1.3   466.6   465.3       1.3   374.8   373.5        4.0 1,524.4 1,520.3
2010     1.4   726.2   724.8       1.3   497.8   496.6       1.3   399.3   398.0        4.0 1,62-.4 1,619.3
2011     1.4   777.1   775.6       1.3   532.7   531.4       1.3   427.2   425.9        4.0 1,737.0 1,733.0
2012     1.4   831.5   830.0       1.3   570.0   568.7       1.3   457.2   455.8        4.0 1,858.6 1,854.6
2013     1.4   889.7   888.2       1.3   609.9   608.6       1.3   489.2   487.8        4.0 1,988.7 1,984.7
2014     1.4   952.0   950.5       1.3   652.5   651.3       1.3   523.4   522.1        4.0 2,127.9 2,123.9
2015     1.4 1,018.6 1,017.2       1.3   698.2   697.0       1.3   560.0   558.7        4.0 2,276.8 2,272.8
2016  (298.7)1,089.9 1,388.6  (301.8)  747.1 1,048.9  (363.8)  599.2   963.0   (964.3)2,436.2 3,400.6
NP  1991   393.5 2,236.6 1,843.1   400.3 1,358.3   958.0   481.4 1,159.3   677.9  1,275.2 4,754.2 3,478.9
B/C RATIO                      5.7                       3.4                       2.4                        3.7
BIDE                          36.91                     25.4Z                     21.2X                      27.8S
FIRR  1997                    32.5Z                     14.5S                     12.1Z                      19.2Z
NOTES: Costs are for construction (1992-1997), routine maintenance, pavement
repairs (2002), periodic maintenance (2007), and construction salvage
value (2016).
Bamefits are from diverted highway traffic and newly :enerated traffic.



- 94 -
CHINA
GOUANDONG PR1NCIAL  IWY PROCT                                 Table  4.13
Economic Evaluation Sensitivity Test with Tolling
Longsang-Tanxi Highway
(oosts increased 101, benefits decreased 10, in millions of Yuan, 1991)
LONGGANG-BAIYUN (57 KMS)  BAIYUN-BOUMN (43 1KM) 80W-ZNirXI (47 1KM5)              TOTAL (149 KMS)
Cost Benefit   Total   Cost Benefit   Total   Cost Benefit  Total         Cost Benefit   Total
1992    31.9           (31.9)   56.1           (56.1)   64.9            (64.9)   152.9           (152.9)
1993    01.4           (81.4)   89.1            (89.1)  107.0          (107.8)  278.3            (278.3)
1994   157.3          (157.3)  127.6          (127.6)  154.0           (154.0)   438.9           (438.9)
1995   188.1          (188.1)  190.3          (190.3)  230.5           (230.5)  608.9            (608.9)
1996   150.7          (150.7)  152.9          (152 A)  184.3           (184.3)   487.9           (487.9)
1997    50.9  219.1  168.2   50.9   99.8   49.0   61.9  100.3   38.5   163.6  419.3  255.6
1998     1.6  259.4  257.8       1.4   122.5  121.2       1.5  120.5  119.1        4.4   502.5  498.1
1999     1.6   307.3  305.8      1.4   150.5  149.2    1.5   144.8  143.3          4.4   602.7   598.3
2000     1.6   364.3  362.7      1.4   185.1  183.7       1.5   174.0  172.6       4.4   723.5  719.0
2001     1.6   385.2  383.6      1.4  207.0  205.6        1.5  188.8  187.4        4.4   781.0  776.5
2002     1.6   407.3   405.7     2-9  231.5  228.6        6.8  205.0  198.1       11.4  843.8  932.4
2003     1.6  430.8  429.2       1.4  259.1  257.7        1.5  222.5  221.1        4.4   912.4   908.0
2004     1.6   455.8  454.2      1.4  290.2  288.8        1.5  241.7  240.2        4.4   987.6  983.2
2005     1.6  482.3  480.7       1.4  325.1  323.7        1.5  262.6  261.1        4.4 1,070.0 1,065.6
2006     1.6   512.3  510.7      1.4  346.4  345.0        1.5  279.4  278.0        4.4 1,138.1 1,133.7
2007    19.1   544.2  525.2    16.9  369.2  352.3   17.6  297.4  279.8            53.6 1,210.9 1,157.3
2008     1.6   578.3  576.7      1.4  393.7  392.3        1.5  316.7  315.2        4.4 1,288.7 1,284.3
2009     1.6   614.7  613.2      1.4  419.9  418.5        1.5  337.3  335.8        4.4 1,371.9 1,367.5
2010     1.6  653.6  652.0       1.4  448.0  446.6        1.5  359.4  357.9        4.4 1,461.0 1,456.6
2011     1.6  699.4  697.8       1.4  479.4  478.0        1.5  384.5  383.1        4.4 1,563.3 1,558.9
2012     1.6  748.3  746.8       1.4   513.0  511.6       1.5  411.4  410.0        4.4 1,672.7 1,668.3
2013     1.6   800.7  799.1      1.4  548.9  547.5        1.5  440.2  438.8        4.4 1.789.8 1,785.4
2014     1.6  856.8  855.2    1.4   587.3  585.9          1.5  471.1  469.6        4.4 1,915.1 1,910.7
2015     1.6   916.7  915.2      1.4  628.4  627.0        1.5  504.0  502.6        4.4 2,049.2 2,044.7
2016  (328.6)  980.9 1,309.5  (332.0)  672.4 1,004.4  (400.2)  539.3  939.5 (1,060.8)2,192.6 3,253,4
NPV 1991  4'42.9 2,013.0 1,580.1  440.3 1,222.4   782.1  529.6 1,043.4   513.8  1,402.8 4,278.e 2,876.0
B/C RATIO                    4.7                      2.8                     2.0                       3.1
KIMR                        32.81                    22.6S                   18.6Z                     24.71
PYRE 1997                   26.6£                    11.9S                    9.9Z                     15.7X
NOTES: Costs are for construction (1992-1997), routino maintenance, pavemnt
repairs (2002). periodic maintenance (2007), and construction salvage
value (2026).
Benefits are from diverted highway traffic and newly genorated traffic.



- 95 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG PBOVINCIAL HIGMHIA  PROJECT                         Table 4.14
Evaluation Summary and Sensitivity
Foshan-Kalping and Longgang-Tanut Highways
(1991 prices)
CONSTRUC                    1991    1997
LENGTH    COST    EIRR      B/C     NP      FYRR
(kIe) (Milo of    (2)          (Milo of    (2)
Yuan)                    YIMan)
Evaluation as Free Road
---------------- _._.__
Foshan-Kaiping  Foshan-Heshan         40   1,374    24.2Z    2.8   1,558    18.8S
Heshan-Shuikou        40     440    25.8S    3.3      660    16.32
Total project         80   1,813    24.22    2.9   2,218    18.22
Longgang-Tanxl  Longgang-Balyun       57      580    40.9S    6.9   2,222    38.8S
Balyun-Houmen         43     586    28.2Z    4.1   1,194    17.42
Boumen-Tanxi          47     710    23.62    2.9      881    14.42
Total project        146   1,876    30.92    4.5   4,298    22.92
Evaluation as Toll Road
__________ ___ _ ______
Poshan-Kaiplg  Poshan-Heshan         40   1,399    21.5S    2.3   1,197    15.82
Heahan-Shulkou        40     465    22.7S    2.7      508    13.32
Total project        80   1,863    21.42    2.4   1,704    15.22
Longgang-Tanxi  Louggang-Baiyun       57      600    36.92    5.7   1,843    32;5%
Balyun-Houmen         43     606    25.42    3.4      958    14.52
Houmen-Tanxi          47     730    21.2S    2.4      678    12.12
Total project        146   1,936    27.82    3.7   3,479    19.22
Toll Road Sensitivity:
Construction costs 102 hIgher
Project benefits 102 lower
Foshan-Raiping  loshan-He4han         40   1,399    18.72    1.9      896    13.02
Heshan-Shuikou        40     465    20.02    2.2      396    10.9S
Total project         80   1,863    18.52    2.0   1,292    12.4S
Longgang-Tanri  Lcnggang-daiyun       57      600    32.82    4.7   1,580    26.62
Ba1yun-Houmen        43      606    22.62    2.8      782    11.92
Houmen-Tawzi          47     730    18.62    2.0      514    99.0X
Total project        146   1,936    24.72    3.1   2,876    15S7!
NOTE: KIRI - econ mic Internal Rate of Return
B/C a Benefit to Cost Ratio
NPV - Met Present Value
FMRR - First Year Rate of Return
SOURCE: Guangdong Provlacial Comrnmicatlona estimates, updated by Bank staff



- 96 -
,Mab1e 4.15
GUANCODNG PROVINCIAL HIG1WAY PROJECT
Summary of First Package Economic Evaluations
.1990          Construction
ADT    Leagth      Cost      NPV   sin   FMY
Seq No   Rt No.     Rt type Location (veh/day%   (k-n)      (Y ml) --        --- 2 
Group A: Paving Eating Gravel Roads
1   106    Natlonal    Shaoguau      725     15.2         7.7    6.6    20      17
2   106    National    Shaoguaan     740     14.7         7.5    9.8    24    21
3   106    National    Shaoguan      914     14.0         9.5   10.9    22    21
4   106    National    Guangzhou     626     14.4         7.5    6.0      19    16
5   323    National   Qinguan        856     17.5         8.7   13.5    26    23
6   323    National   cZ4ngyAan      651     22.2        10.9   10.8    22       19
7  1911    Prot.       Qingyuan     1275     16.0         7.8   17.8    32    28
8  1923    Prov.       Shanei       1101     20.2         7.9   15.8    31    28
9  1924    Prov.       Huizhou      1024    26.2         17.8   24.3     24    20
10  1989    Prov.       Zhanjiang    1101      7.1         2.5    6.1     34      1
Subtotal                                  167.5        87.8  121.6
Average                            898                                  25    22
Croup B: Rehabilitating Existing Paved Roads
1   106    National    Shaoguan     2188     11.0         5.5   29.0    81      70
2   106    National    Shaoguan     2188      9.0         4.5   25.2    75    57
3   106    National    Shaoguan     2188      5.0         2.6   11.6    56    36
4   106    National   Qiajyuan      2042      7.0         2.7   19.3    68    47
5   106    National   Qingyuan      3381      9.0         1.8   37.7    226    185
6   106    National    Guangzhou    4043      8.1         4.2   38.8    113    87
7   207    National   Macming       4578    21.0          3.9  128.3    151    119
8   207    National    Zhanjiang    4778     11.0         5.4   75.2    112    83
9   325    National    Yangjiang    6722      6.2         2.7   36.0    117    80
10  325    National    Yangjiang    3778      12.0         5.2   39.6     70    A5
11  325    National    Zhanjiang    4321      11.0         4.5  46.2   108    78
12  1925    Prov.       Hui:hou      5135     41.2        14.9  221.6    279   251
Subtotal                                  151.5        62.9  708.5
Average                           4138                                 147   121
Group Cs Upgrading Existing National Highways
1  206    National      Pinyuan      88S     37.0        48.8   26.8     16    12
2   206    National     Pinyuan      885     18.8        30.3   15.0     16    12
Subtotal                                   55.8        79.1   41.8
Average                            885                                  16    12
…---------....-.-------_---..----..----------_...._______-.-----------...-__._____.____-__
Total                                              374.8       229.8  871.9
Average                                                                          5S     45



- 97 -                              ANNEX I
Page 1
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Eoad Imnrovement Program
A. Background
1.        GP is currently experiencing rapid economic growth which started
with the economic reforms in the late 1970s. As a result, freight and passen-
ger traffic on the provincial highway network has grown substantially during
this period.
2.        The growth in highway transport demand in the province has resulted
in an expanding vehicle fleet, increasing vehicle utilization, and greater use
of heavier vehicles. From 1986 to 1991, the total motor vehicle fleet grew 18
percent per year. The highway freight density (ton-km) and passenger density
(passenger-kl) grew 12 and 15 percent per year respectively On the other
hand, road maintenance expenditures in real terms grew at only about 6 percent
annually. Clea- evidence of underinvestment in the Provincial road network
was noted by various Bank preparation missions, in particular, undesirable
postponement of pavement overlays and rehabilitation. With continuing growth
in traffic, it will be necessary to increase the allocation of resources to
highway maintenance and rehabilitation in order to prevent further deteriora-
tion of highway pavements. The objective of the RIP covrponent of the project
is to reinforce the Provincial program of highway strengthening and
improvement.
3.        With increasing maintenance and rehabilitation needs, and with grow-
ing demands on Provincial budgets, it is becoming facreasingly necessary to
make prudent and cost effective decisions in planning major road works. In
recognition of the need for more systematic and advanced method of determining
highway improvement strategies, a RDB and PMS have been developed in the Prov-
ince since 1986. The RDB and PMS provide a very useful tool for the GPCD to
monitor the current road network conditions and to allocate limited mainte-
nance funds. The methodology has been taken further in the preparation of
this project by introducing economic evaluation techniques, as described in
this Annex.
B. The Proposed Program
4.        Based on the existing PM8, the GPHAB has tentatively identified 86
subprojects for inclusion 'n the RIP. These subprojects can be categorized
into three groups:
Group A:    24 subprojects, 450 km, for paving existing gravel roads.
Those road falling into this category but narrower than 7 m
would be widened to 7 m;



- 98 -
ANHX L
Page 2
Group BD    59 subprojects,  )3 kI, for rehabilitating existing paved
roads; and
Group Cs   3 subprojecto, 107 km, for upgrading National Highways.  The
improvewnt work including widening, realignment and pavement
rehabilitation.
5.        The total investment of the RIP is estimated to be Y 693 million.
The detailed breakdown cost table is presented in Table I to this Annex.
6.        The RIP would be processed in a series of packages.  inly the sub-
projects in the first package have been appraised; it is required that the
evaluation of subprojects in the subsequent packages follow the methodoWogy
outlined in this annex. The subprojects selected for inclusion in subsequent
packages would depend on the status of preparation of the required studies, on
the availability of local funds, and on other criteria stipulated in Section C
of this annex. Most of the 150 subprojects tentatively identified by SPHAB
are expected to qualify for inclusion in the RIP; however, other subprojects
meeting selection criteria could be added t4 the program.
C.  Criteria for Subroisct Selecti-on
7.  The criteoia for selecting subprojects in the RIP are as follows:
(a) the 8IRR, calculated according to methodology presented in this
annex, should not be less than 12 percent;
(b) engineering design should be prepared according to the geometric
standards indicated in Table 1.7 of this SAR end sound engineering
practices;
(c) the procurement procedures should be in conformity with Bank Guide-
lines for Procurement, specifically paras. 2 and 3 of Appendix I
thereof;
(d) an EAP and, for subprojects with potential adverse Impact on the
environment or located in environmentally sensitive areas, an Envi-
ronmental Assessment, prepared as outlined in Annex 3 to this SAR;
and
(a) a RAP prepared in accordance with the procedures followed for the
Poshan-Ralping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways, as described in Annex 4
to this SAR.
8.        Appendix I to this Annex summarizes the requirements for subproject
selection, preparation, and bank review.
D. gconomic Rvaluation of Grouns A and B: Pavin Existlna
Gravel Roads and Rehab1litatLag Paved Roads
9.        The first package of subprojects for the RIP include 10 from Group A
(paving existing gravel roads) and 12 from Group B (rehabilitating existing
paved roads). Their evaluation is summarized in this section,



- 99 -
Page 3
10.       Meth-odoloaw.  The evaluations of Group A aad B prcjects used the
Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance model (HDM 111)./  The IDM model iA
designed to estimate total life-cycle costs--construction, maintenance and
road user costs--as a function of road deLign, maintenance standards. and
other policy options. Thus the model entbles decision makers to com.pare costs
and benefits associated with different rehabilitation and upgrading strate-
gies.
11.       For any road, given the existing conditions cf t!Iat road, the traf-
fic characteristics, and the maintenance policios, the HDI model can simulate
the road surface conditions and vehicle operating costs as they are affected
by the level of maintenance. For each year of analysis, the road surface
conditions (roughness, rutting, cracking, btc.) are computed as a function of
the pavement conditions at the end of the previous year, pavement characteris-
tics, climate, intensity of road maintenance, and both traffic volume and
composition. Vehicle operating costs on that surface are then computed as a
function of road surface conditions and vehicle characteristic. This simula-
tion, repeated for each year of the analysis period, produces the annual costs
of road maintenance and vehicle operations for each maintenance policy, from
which economic comparison can be made.
12~    PreDaration of Basic InDut Date.  The basic input data required for
the HDM model consist oft
(a) existing road characteristics;
(b) vehicle characteristics and costs;
(c) traffic volumes, compositions and growth characteristics; and
(d) maintenance unit co3ts.
13.       Existing road conditions include data on climate, road geometry, the
type and strength of the pavement structure, and existing surface roughness.
The detailed existing conditions of subprojects included in the first package
are presented in Table 2 to this annez.
14.       Eight vehicle types were considered In the manlysis.  For each type
of vehicle, a set of typical chareczeristics and unit prices were prepared
which are presented in Table 3 to this annex, The vehicle types used are
listed as follows:
1) Small car        5) Small truck
2) Small bus        6) Medium truck
3) Medium bus       7) Large truck
4) Large bus        8) Tr:ctor-Trailer
15.       Traffic data includes traffic volume, vehicle composition, and
growth charactoristics. A standard traffic composition was used for all the
LI   The Hiahwav Desian and-Maintenance Standaras Model, Watanatada and oth-
ers, The Johns Hopkins University Press for the World Bank, 1987.



- 100 -
Page 4
subprojects in the analysis. Road traffic was projected using a growth factor
cumon to all vehicle types, but varying by period.  The percentage of various
typ9s of vehicles and traffic growth rate at different time periods are listed
as the fol.Lowing:
Traffic ComDosition
Small car 13Z       5) Small truck  161
Small bue 131       6) Medium truck  331
Medium bus 41       7) Large truck   21
Large bus  4%       8) Tractor-trailer  152
Traffic Growth Rat9s
1991-95   10% per year
1996-2000 8
2001-10    5
16.       Maintenance Policies.  A road maintenance policy defines two
aspects: (i) the types of maintenance activity undertaken, and (ii) the
intervals at which tne activity should be performed.  Various types of mainte-
nance activities are considered in the modelling. These activities and their
unit cost are listed as follows:
Financial                              Unit
Ty-,e                          cobt           Economic              cost
Gravel Roads
Grading                        0.55             0.63            Yuan per km
Spot regravelling              80.0             92.0            Yuan per ms
Gravel resurfacing             84.5             96.6            Yuan per a
Routine                       3,750            4,313            Yuan per km/year
Paved Roads-
Patching                       11.0             12.7            Yuan per ma
Overlay                        21.5             25.0            Yuan per ma
Reconstruction             Variable         Variable
Routine                       4,500            5,175            Yuan per km/year
17.       The timing of maintenance activities can be specified to follow a
fixed schedule (e.g., every 30 days, or every 10,000 vehicle passes), or to be
condition responsive (e.g., patch all cracks when cracking covers 20 percent
of the pavement surface). For each subproject, both a with-project and a
without-project case were established for analysis and comparison by the EDM
model. To avoid distortion, adequate maintenance levels wire assumed for both
"with" and "without" cases. The improvement and maintenance p*licies were
developed with GPHAB and are presented in Table 4 to this annex.



- 101 -
Page 5
18.       For Group A projects (pavl.ng esxeting travel roads), routine mbinte-
nance was always ealectid for both "with" and "without" cases. In addition,
the "without" case adopts following maintenance policy:
(a) grading every 200 vehicle paseesl
(b) spot regravelling to replace 20 percent of material loss each year;
and
(c) resurfacing whenever the surface course is worn out to restore the
thickness of the surface course to the original thickness.
The "with" case for Group . projects specified the following maintenance pol-
icy:
(d) paving the surface immediately; and
(e) overlay whenever surface roughness exceeds 7.0 IRI mijm
19.       For Group B projects (rehabilitasing existing paved roads), routine
maintenance and a policy of patching all po,.holee as they occur was specified
for both vith-project and without-project cases. No additional maintenance
was specified for the "without" case, but for the "with" case, a reconstruc-
tion was specified to be performed every 12 years.
20.       Results.for the First Packete Group A and B Sub -rolects.  The asso-
,.ated construction, maintenance and vehicle operating costs were estimated
year by year for an 18-year period (1993 to 2010) for both the "with" and
"without' cases for each subproject.  By comparing cost and Denefit streams
for both cases, the HDM model estimated economic indices suck as NPV and EIRR.
All subprojects in Group A and B of thie first package yielded high economic
rates of return. The EIRR of Group A subprojects varies between 19 percent
and 34 percent, with an average of about 24 percent. The EIRR of Group B
oubprojects reached over 56 percent. The results are summarized in Table 7 to
this annex.
S.  Economic RvAluations of Group C: Untradina National Hiahwavs
21.       The first package of subprojects for the RIP contain two projects
from Group C (upgrading National Highways). These were evaluated using a
computer spreadsheet evaluation model developed in previous Bank highway proj-
ects in China. This treated many aspects more timply than HDki, but did
account for important congestion effects which are not included in HDM. Thus
the Group C model assumes a standard composition for motor vehicle traffic
(compared with eight vehicle types separately analyzed in HDM), but does con-
sider the influenze of agricultural tractors and other slow vehicles, includ-
Ing bicycles, which are important when traffic capacity is -  ng considered.
The inputs to the model are described below.
22.       Traffic forecgst.  Road traffic was initially projected using the
growth factor method. Traffic volumes were projected by three types cf traf-
fic: motor vehicles., agricultural tractors, and other (mainly bicycles). The
estimated traffic volumes were then converted to an equivalent medium truck
traffic volume and compared with the capacity of the road. If the equivalent



- 102 -
Page 6
volume was lower than road capacity, the projected volume was taken as the
future traffic volume. If the converted volume was higher than road capacity,
it wva then adjusted to equal the capacity of the road, and the volumes by
vehicle type vere adjusted proportionately.
23.       The 4-ton medium truck (5.5-ton GVW) was used as the standard vehi-
cle and other typed of traffic convurted to truck traffic. The conversion
factor for vehicles, tractors and other traffic were assumed to be as follows:
Motor vehicles                1.0
Agricultural tractors         1.0
Others                        0.067
24.       A uniferm set of traffic growth fa.ctora were used for the evalua-
tions of all the projects. The growth factors (rates) used for various types
of traffic across different time periods are listed in the following table:
Annual arowth rate
Traffic type         1991-95      1996-2000       2001-10
--------------- (Z) …--------------
Motor vehicles             10             8              5
Agricultural tractors       5             2              0
Others                    2.5             0             -5
25.       Vehicle traffic is assumed to grow in all three time periods but at
decreasing rates. Tractor traffic is expected to grow in the near future but
at a much lower rate than vehicle traffic. Beyond 2000, tractor traffic
growth rate is set to zero. Other traffic (mainly bicycles) is assumed to
have a negative growth beyond year 2000 to reflect the likely switch to motor-
ized vehicles as the Province becomes more developed. The growth factors
presented above account for normal traffic growth likely to occur with
economic development. Additional traffic is assumed to be generated by the
project at a rate of 10 percent of the normal traffic.
26.       HiehWav Cavacltv.  The practical capacity of a highway is defined as
the maximum traffic volume reached when the stability of the traffic stream
starts to break down. Congestion effects, In the form of impedance of the
faster vehicles by slower ones, are felt over the whole range of traffic vol-
umes up to that volume, but Instability of flow and the onset of stop-go con-
ditions occur only after this volume is exceeded. The practical capacity of a
flat tangent 7-m 2-lane highway is about 2,500 Passenger Car Equivalent (PCE)
per hour. Since a medium size truck is equivalent to 2 passenger cars, prac-
tical capacity for this type of highway is assumed to be 1,250 equivalent
medium trucks per day.



- 103 -
Page 7
27.       Capacity is assumed to vary with the width of pavement.  The follow-
ing adjustment factors were adopted to modify the capacity of a 7-m road (with
linear interpolation) when the road width is different from 7 ms
7.0 m                 1.00
6.7 m                 0.98
6.1 m                 0.90
5.5 m                 0.80
28.       Road capacity drops with increasing hilliness.  The following fac-
tors were adopted to modify capacity for each road geometric classt
Flat/Rollingt         0.85
Hilly:                0.65
Mountainous:          0.50
29.       Vehicle ODeratina Cost.  Vehicle operating costs were estimated in
two steps. First, free flow operating costs were estimated and then the v81-
ues were modified to reflect the degree of traffic congestion.
30.       Free flow operating costs for various types of vehicle are listed in
Table 4.7 of the main SAR. To obtain an average operating cost for vehicle
traffic, the following fleet composition was assumed for vehicle traffic on
all roads analyzedt
iVehile tvDe          Percentage
Small car                  13
Small bus                  13
Medium bus                  4
Large bus                   4
Small truck                16
Medium truck               33
Large truck                 2
Tractor-trailer            15
31.       The average vehicle operating cost, weighted by the above percentage
traffic composition, were defined as follows:



- 104 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
Surface              Pavement            Flat/
Type                Conditions          rolling            Hilly     Mountainous
Paved                  Good                0.73             0.88         1.02
Fair               0.81             0.98         1.11
Poor               1.01             1.16          1.30
V. poor            1.10             1.26          1.41
Unpaved                Good                0.92             1.09         1.32
Fair               1.49             1.88         2.21
Poor               1.71             2.10         2.44
32.       The purchase price of the agricultural tractor was estimated at
about 1/6 of the cost of a small truck.  Running cost are probably not propor-
tionately as low as the purchase price, therefore it was assumed that tractor
operating costs are 1/4 of the average vehicle operating cost.
33.       Vehicle operating cost under congested conditions were obtained by
multiplying free flow cost with a congestion factor, estimated as a function
of daily volume capacity ratio. Congestion factor used for different volume
capacity ratio are listed as follows:
Volume/capacity       Congestion
ratio               factor
0.0                   1.00
0.6                   1.00
0.7                   1.05
0.8                   1.15
0.9                   1.5
1.0                   2.5
34.       Road Maintenance Costs.  Road maintenance cost can be divided into
fixed and variable. The fixed cost does not change with traffic volume. In
the evaluations, the fixed cost is assumed to be Y 4,400 per km per year for
roads with asphalt surface and Y 4,700 for gravel and earth roads. The vari-
able cost changes when traffic volume changes. It can be measured as a linear
function of daily traffic volume.  Values of Y 30 and Y 53.5 per daily vehicle
per kilometer per year were assumed for asphalt surface and gravel surface
roads, respectively. For example, the annual maintenance cost for a gravel
road with 200 vehicle per day would be:
4,700 + 53.5 x 200 - 15,400 Yuan/km
35.       Conclusions on First Packase Groun C Subnroiocts.  The spreadsheet
evaluation model for each of the two Group C subprojects are presented in
Tables 5 and 6 to this Annex. The economic coset of upgrading the first sec-
tion (starting cha4nage - 2087 + 000) of National Highway 206 is estimated to
be Y 56.9 million (financial cost is estimated to be Y 48.8 million). The



- 105 -
Page 9
project is estimated to yield an NPV of Y 27 million at 10 percent discount
rate and an EIRR of 16 percent. The FYRR is 12 percent. The economic cost of
upgrading the second section (starting chasinage - 2137 + 376) of National
Highway 206 is estimated to be 35.3 million (financial cost is estimated to be
30.3 million). The project is estimated to yield an NPV of Y 15 million at 10
percent discount rate and an KIRR of 16 percent. The PYRR is 12 percent.
F. Road Imirovement Proaram Evaluation Summary
36.       To test and demonstrate che procedures for subproject selection,
engineering design, and economic evaluation, a first package, comprising 24
subprojects (10 gravel road paving, 12 paved road rehabilitation, and 2 sec-
tions of National Highway upgrading) was identified by the GPHAB. The charac-
toristics of these projects, together with tha summary of the economic evalua-
tion results, are shomn in Table 7 to this anex.  All the subprojects in the
first package yield an acceptable rate of return.



- 106 -
ANNEX 1.
Table 1
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs of Road Improvement Program
(Y mil, March 1991 prices)
Cost Items                              Local  Foreign    Total
Civil Engineering Cost                          358.53   168.72   527.25
Supervision of Construction                       6.25      0.00     6.25
Supervision Equipment                             0.24      3.76     4.00
Bsge Cost                                       365.02   172.48   537.50
Physical Contingency (1)                         36.48    16.87    53.35
Price Contingency (2)                            56.21    11.36    67.57
Sub-total                                       457.71   200.71   658.42
Land and Resettlement                            34.53      0.00    34.53
Financial Cost                                  492.24   200.71   692.95
Economic Cost (3)                               523.23   227.22   750.46
(1) 10 of Base Cost, except equipmont costs
(2) Local - 14X of Base Cost plus Physical Contingency
Foreign - 61 of Base Cost plus Physical Contingency
(3) Total cost less price contingency, all factored by 1.2.
(1.2 - average 1992 financial-sconomic conversion factor for
road improvement projects)



I~~
1-~ ~~                        ~                                m            -m
r bs _ &sfe Sr to-Can
Average         Avg Ainl Surface Stoulider   th  is  borism                cow"e   1i90
Degiala      bin   tAlitude  Chew  tlaIal.    With   Vldtb   Pall           SuY      Surfo ace icisac
Proj so    at lb. It tye Locti.   Chatng            (i)    (a)               Cm)        (a)       (a)     (now) (dagmIi)  Type         Cm) M)
I      106 SetI   Shosan   215400           1S.21    0lo0       3       3.6s0      o       0.30     60.0      6o0.0  Crevel      20.0      723
a      100 SatlosL Seogs        2172#f      14.65    l100       4       1.6O0       6.6    0.50    100.0    3000.0  arevel       20.0       740
3      106 ratios  aeoaa    22629300    14.00         3000      4       I, ee      5.7    0.50    100.0    3000.0 orel           20.0      914
4      106 Setiosl SCaga   24404000    16.36          3000 3 I            .        3.0     0.50    100.0    3000.0  Creel        20.0      626
3      323 fStiaom   QIaaJua     383.0      17.50    1000 S  I:         2.216      5.0     0.30    300.0    1000.0  Orel         20.0      am
6      323 Qatioml qioaa         333900    22.20      1000      4       2,236      3.0     0.30    100.0    1000.0 oCreel         20.0     631
7     loll Pr.   ql qyueu        362#900     6.00      300      3       2.216      S.S     0.50     45.0      so0.0  Crewel      20.0    1273
6     1923 Pr.   Sbamid           124000    20.20      100      4       1.930      7.3     0.30     23.0      100.0  c ,wel      20.0    1101
9     3924 Proe.   Mll=            2eo      26.20     100       4       1.70       4.9    0.50    300.0    1000.0 Creel          20.0    1024
10    li6t Prou..   bajitea        49400      7.11      10t      4       1.334      7.6     0.50     25.0      100.0  Creln    20.0    1301
2. biti,  Pa.    aes"
Average         Avg hin    Suta   Shoulder tRIe PUea  Sorisan                       Surface    II&"      Surfac
01.t Altitde  Class at¢al     i   Width   Width   tal          c11      Suace    eao  TbLcisse  Thinem. gaighma   19
Seq so    t so. St tpe       Same   Degini        (i)    is)              Ims)       (a)        (a)    (afte) odreei) TJ_b Type I_c 1m)                  (m       (I)    DE O
..~~~~~~. . .__ .... _....._._________._............................. .____ ............ _______ __________  .................................................... -______ --_ -       --------
1      106 Matlcol Sbaogu      220100      11.00      SO3      4       1.600      6.0     o.7      60.0   D      G    ASS"    I          20.0      150.0    10.0      2160
2      106 Satia  Sbeousn    222140          9.00      so0      4       1.600      P.O    0.30      60.0      600.0     AM          I    20.0       150.0   e .3  * 21
3      106 Setical Sb_agu       23300        3.00      300      4       1.600      ..1     0.73     60.0      4a0.0     AM5         1    30.0       1O3.0      6.3     216
4      l  oste i  Qtuaa    23334000         7.00      Soo      4       2.216     10.1     1.00     60.0      200.0    ABSS         1    23.0       200.0      7.1     2042
S      106 Setool Q1aan         2383000      9.00      SOO      4       2.216      7.2    0.63      60.0        o.0     "ST         1    23.0       200.0      7.3     3381
6      106 "tuna Seaqsubu   24743UO          .14      100      4       1.694      7.9     3.00     25.0      300.0    ASs          2    30.0       200.0      8.0    4043
7      207 Satioal SW..Ia       34234000    21.00      300      4       1.423     11.0     0.50     25.0      100.0    Asr          2    30.0       160.0      0.0    4378
6      207 SetiousI Zhe.jia  S262+000    11.00         300      4       1.334      9.0     1.23    2S.0       100.0    ASS?         2    30.0       200.0      7.1     4776
9      3223  astlawl Iarsvjia    2s04o0      6.20      300      4       2.200      9.0     I.SO     25.0      100.0     AM                22.0      200.0      4.9     6722
10      323 Setioua ?Tajun        264*000    12.00      100      4       2.20       9.0     1.30     23.       100.0    ASST         2    25.0       200.0      3.2     36
11      32S fteial ZbaaJlm        443.0      33.00      100      4       3,324      9.0     3.30     23.0      300.0    ASS?         2     3.0      200.0      6.3    4321
12     2923 ?rV.   dSiow            240      41.3?      100      2       1.700      7.0    0.75      25.0      300.0    ASS?         2    3o.0       200.0    20.0      3133
cs cut of ale..
I b *ST? for aephalt  Wfrae  t£retut
I.c bae typ  * It   for flble sateuiala
is    for ae-rfgId materals
I!Un



- 108 -                                            AN X  I
Table 3
*            ~~~~C8SVt
VAJJW~   FPROINCIAL HZOHWAY PRWECT
Vehile Characteriutics and Costs
SlmaL     Medium       Large    Tractor      Small    Medium         Laisg
Small Car      Truck       Truck      Truck    Trailor         Bus        Bus         Bus
1. Vehicle Chracteristics
Siza                          150 cc     (2 ton    4.5 ton       8 ton     25 ton    28 seat    40 seat   60 seat
Borge powr                        90         80         100        100         210         so         100        100
Type of fuel                gaaoliae   gsolin,   gasoline       diesel     diesel   gasoline   gasoline       diasel
Avg load carried              9 pesr   1.1 tons   2.3 tons      6 tons    12 tons    28 pass    40 pcss    60 p"s
Number of tirea                    4          4           4          6          14          4           6         10
2. Economie Costs (1991 Yuen)
Vehicle                      232,705     30.910      44,660    104.280    185,790      78,650    155.430    187,220
Tire                              66        440         572        715         880        440         396        792
Crew wages per hour             1.12       1.12        1.12       1.45        2.18       1.12        1.45       1.45
Pasgr tim  per hour             0.33       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.30        0.30        0.3
Main. labor pcr hour            0.55       0.55        0.55       0.55        0.55       0.55        0.55       0.55
Fuel & lubricant (Yuan/liter):       Petrol - 0.91   Diesel  0.8   Enginee oiL - 0.709
Intersat rate - lO1
3. Vehicle Utilisation
km driven per year            30.000     50,000      50,000     75,000      75,000     65,000      65,000     65,000
Vehicle lif  (year)               1S       12.5        12.5           9          9         10          10         10
Annual Operating hours         1,500      1,500       1,500      1,500       1,500      2,000       2,000      2,000
Veh depreciation code /_a          1           1          1           1          1          1           1          1
Vch utilisztion code /_b           3          3           3          3           3          3           3          3
/_  Vehicle depreciation codes: 1 - dstliUces varying vehicle life method   2 - Constant vehicle life method
/_b Vehicle utiliuation codes:  1 - Constant Annual kilometerage; 2 - Constant annual hourly utilisZtion;
3 a Adjusted utilisation.



cHN
OU&12  PIPNCL HIGUIITlA P UOJN
Proposed larowmnt ma  Naint.te e Policlts
1. twtg osia toed
with Zapovmmn
Vithat sprowment (Rae Case)                              Propoe   mroent
asgin'"                                                              Be           Same       Surface   Surface
Seq No   It No. It tye Location    Chainage                      aintenane Policy                         ?ype I/ *      lbes    Type lb  'hicbsa                   Maiteance Polley
I      I"  fttim      Swu        2131*M0                                                                      2      15 go           3          cm
2      l06 N tlol Sbaogue        2172.000 0                                                                   2      15 co           3       4co
3      106 National Seogun       2262+500   1. Rotie maintenanco;                                             2      15 cm           3       4 co
4      106 Natioal Guashbo    24404000   2. grad  wory 200 wb,, spot regrawellin  to recover                  2      20 ce           2       3 cm   1. Routine maieance
S      323 Natioal Qinguan        585+900   3. Spot regravelling to recover 20X of materl lose                2      15 cm           1     2.5 c   2. s cm asphlt  ixtuNe overlay
4      323 Natial Qingyun         5333900   4. Resurfacing wboe thu weeing *ourse Is worn out                 2      13 cm           2       4 c      wben II  (ro}unse)3  7.0 all
7     loll Pru.    qingywe        1629000                                                                     2      13 co           2       4cm
*     1923 Prow.    Sbms           120t0                                                                      a 2    20 cm           2       4 cm
9     1924 Prow.    sisbn           24000                              I                                      2      20 cm           2       4 cm
10     1989 Pro.       njian        490500                              I                                      2      15  a           4       5 cm
_ __ ___.  ........ . ........  __._________  ___________ ........................... ................................................... ..._._._. _.........,_____............ ___. ..____ ._________________ ____________
2. b.tLV  Ptaed to dP                                                                                                            
--                                                                                                                    Propose Improveet
Regiunin                                                             Base         Ease       Surface   Surface0
Seq No   St No. It tne Location    Cbelnge                                                                  Type      Thicknee      Typ    Thickness               maintae Policy                 sD
1      106 Natial S       beogun    2201.000                             I                                    2      20 cm          3        5 cm                    I
2      10 matial Sbagan         22l21OO                                 I                                    2      20 c            3       Sco
3       §106 Ntionl Sbeoguan    22304000                                 I                                    2      20 cm           3       5 cm a
4      106 National Qinuyn       23354000                                                                     2      15 cm           3       5 c       1. Routi  Maintenanc
5      106 Natioal Qbna          2383e000                                                                     2      15 cm           3       5 c       2. Patchin  10   of potbold area
4      106 Notonal Ouasbou   2474+460             1. Routin  maintunance                                      2      20 cm           2       5 cm      3.  ecots     ctin  ewery 12 years.
I      207 Natiol Homan          3421400          2. Patebhin  lo  percent of patbhlee area                  2      15 cm           3       6 c          witb nw type of structure
4      207 Natinl tbanjiung   3624000                                                                         2      20cm5 m                                 l a tb   r o       premt
9      525 Nticual Tajig    2504000 e                                                                         2      20m             2         cm
10      323 National  enw4jia2                                                                                         0 2444  2  20  2       4cm 
11      323 Nationa  Rnjieng    4454000                                                                        2      13 cm          3        5cm
12     I92SP ro.    ebisho           2000                                                                      2      20 ce          2        5s
base tpes           * sem-risid mttril
2 I   flexible  aterils
lb  mwrece typs I sepalt surfaee tratmant
2 - ahlt concete
5 - aphalt mlatue"



-110 -
OUMIGON  MPUOVCIAL fhOWT PIOUC
E:onomic Analysis of National load 206 at Pinp7ua
Terrain        2    1-flatcroUic.. 2-billy.                     ~                     opomtCas.aT.lo.   ELUy   Moun
"aysoer    365       amutlossra;;    -- -  --- ---*m    -U
Conat1r.    56.690   millions of Yuan                                        Pave     oo             1"  0.73'  0.68        .0
Intereat    10.0I   Percent                                                          Fair           2    0.61    0.66    1.11
Can Trail   10.01   Percent                                                          V. poor        3    1.10    1.26    1.41
Onpaved Good           A    0.92    1.06    1.322
amu  c                                                              Fair          a    1.00    1.26    1.SO
Inputa                                                         l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~foot  3    1.35,   1.32    1.79
v,ist anc  36.20    35.62     Kilm eters                                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
pavement        I       I    I-pawed. 2-Anpaved                               anenctoe
Condition      3        1    1.go     2-flai. 3-v. poor......
Width        6.6      7.5    Mae.                                                       Paved Unpaed
Calcu.Ut.d,                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~looad  4.400   4 700 Tusan/Pyr
Calculated'                                              ~~~~~~~~~Variable   50.0    £2.5 Yuanidaily veb-.n/yr
Caacty  10.454  10.928    Vehicles (sad trl eqe) per day_________________________
lM8maint  4.400   4,400    Yuan per km   r ya
War saint     30       30    Tua  per dad'iy veb.) per year                     Capacity (eq medium trucks per day)
asee. WOO    1.26    0.66    Yuanm ve veb-m                                                  -
TraZEla                MnMUAL. vu&nt'~U -i-s                                            Width llritol   illy   Mount
Ghwed-......... ......                                                                             ..   ..
1990    1993 - ;; 2000    2010-    PAOC
---  -----   -----   .....  .                            ~~~3.0   4.300   3,300   2.600
Vehicles     085    10.0X    6.0X    3.01  1.000                                          5.5  11.600   6.600  26.60
Tractors     277      5.01    2.01    0.02  1.000                                         6.0  13.000   9.900   7.700
)tber      1,174     2.512   0.01   -.5.0   0.067                                        7.3  14,200  10,6000   6.300tf
iraxzic wrojectioas
InITIAL PIOJEID  231111                  NORMAL 22*111             ZINTTAL P1OJEC   0221             ODIFlE  PROJECTIIWS
1903    1176     321   ~~~~1264   1.563           1.178     321            1,296     353   1.733             1.296      353   1.733
1994            1298      337    1296   1.719             1.296     337            *.425      370   1.662             1,423     370   1.002
1995            1425      354    1326   1.667             1,423     354            1.566      3ao   2.045             156       39 205
1996            1539      361    1326   1.986             1.539     361            1.693      597   2.17              169       37 216
1997            1662      368    1326   2.119             1.662     366            1.629      405   2.322             l,629     405   2,322
1996            1795      375    1326   2,259             1,795      375           1.975      413   2.476             1.975     413   2.476
1990            1939      363    1326   2,410             1,939      363           2.133      421   2.643            2.133      421   2,645
2000            2094      390    1326   2.573             2.094      390           2.304      429   2,622            2.30       429t,62
2001            2199      390    1262   2,673             2.199      a9 2419                  429   2.932             2.419     429   2.32
2002            2309      390    1199   2,779             2.309      39:0          2.540      429   3.049            2.540      429   3,9
2003            2424      390    1139   2.61              2,424      390           2.667      429   3,172            267        429   3.172
2004            2346      390    1062   3.0081            2.346      390           2.600      429   3,302            2,600      429   3302
2005            2673      30     102    5.132             2.673      390           2.940      429   3,4368            2940      429   a,436
2006            2606      390     976   3.262             2.606      390           3,067      429   3,582            3,067      429   3.562
2007            2947      390     926   3.399             2,947      390           5,241      429   3.733             3,241     429   3.733
2006            3094      390      681   3,543            3,094      390           3.404      429   3,692             3.404     429   3,692
2009            3249      390      637   3,695            3.249      390           3 574      429   4.059             3,574     429   4,059
2010            3411      390      795   3,635            3.411      390           3,752      429   4,0235           3,752      429  IL23
Uoi2NFUWt growth rates                     uo-ntrcoirot traf to     1!Fihiiefied                      C3  l5FUtal traffic
cap of oxustinS road    generated traffic                  to capacity of am coad
Estimated Costs and lenefits
NOalmL tEshIC            ADDITL- --      - -- CU-!E....                 3ATED 63W                        VIC   210       CM ACTO
- . - - COBBlE   BlINT    Dis~~~t Dist    Surf    Surf--------- -             NBIT              0L      usm...,    ....
T=1    Wes tae COSTS  wv gen)    Webs   Trace    Webs  Traes    Vbeb  Trace    33W                                  WIgs   so gn  Oild   gm
..... ....  . ....   ....   ....  ....       ....    ....  .. .…
1993  28.4                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~-28.4  0.15    0.16    1.00    1.00
1994                     26.4                                                               -265.4            0.16    0.16    1.00    1.00
1995   1,423     354             0.17      0.2      0.0     7.1     0.4      0.4     0.0      6.0             0.16    0.17    1.00    1.00
1996   1.539     361             0.16      0.3      0.0     7.6      0.4     0.4     0.0      8.6             0.19    0.16    1.00    1.00
1997   1.662     368             0.19      0.3      0.0     6.3     0.5      0.4     0.0      9.3             0.20    0.19    1.00    1.00
1996   1.795     371%            0.21      0.3      0.0     6.9     0.3      0.5     0.0    10.0              0.22    0.21    1.00    1.00
1999   1,939     363             0.22      0.3      0.0     9.6      0.5     0.5     0.0    10.6              0.23    0.22    1.00    1.00
2000   2,094     390             0.24      0.4      0.0    10.4      0.3     0.5     0.0    11.6              0.23    0.24    1.00    1.00
2001   2,199     390             0.25      0.4      0.0    10.9      0.5     0.6     0.0    12.2              0.26    0.24    1.00    1.00
2002   2.309     390             0.26      0.4      0.0    11.5      0.5     0.6     0.0    12.7              0.27    0.23    1.00    1.00
2003   2,424     390             0.27      0.4      0.0    12.0      0.5     0.6     0.0    13.4              0.26    0.26    1.00    1.00
2004   2,546"    390             0.26      0.4      0.0    12.6      0.5     0.7     0.0    14.0              0.29    0.27    1.00    1.00
2005   2,675     390             0.29      0.5      0.0    13.5      0.5     0.7     0.0    14.7              0.30    0.29    1.00    1.00
2006   2,606     390             0.31      0.5      0.0    13.9      0.5     0.7     0.0    13.4              0.31    0.30    1.00    1.00
2007   2,947     390             0.32      0.5      0.0    14.6      '.5     0.6     0.0    16.1              0.33    0.31    1.00    1.00
2006   3.094     390             0.33      0.5      0.0    15.4      0.5     0.6     0.0    16.9              0.36    0.32    1.00    1.00
2009   3,249      590            0.35      0.8      0.0    16.1      0.5     0.6     0.0    17.7              0.35'   0.36    1.00    1.00
2010   3,411     390             0.36      0.6      0.0    16.9      0.5     0.9     0.0    16.6              0.37    0.35    1.00    1.00
Economic Evaluation                                                                                            0eto
WIC  lctor    Knot
not present Tawsj            26.6 Yuan mil"nun-
Econeomiclate Of lAtUrn      16.42                                                                                 0.0    1.00    0.00
first leOr lAte Of Return   12.22                                                                                  0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    0.10
0.6    1.15    0.35
0.0    1.50    1.00
1.0    2.30    00



EoaconMi Analyslo of Natioaml Aeed 204 at Ltaten
Vbicl* @peratium Coatt (luanlvab.ba)
Dyueyar    343.......M                                                                                M    R y m t
=ntlr.    35.33    Wlilliams of IvnPae   Go                                                      I   0.73,  0.88    1.02
IMOrOSt    10.02   Peragnt                                                         aar                0.61    0.96    1.11
GanTra      10.as   Percent                                                        Poor          3    1.01    1.14    1.30
________________________________________________        Unpmaved Good          I   0.192   1.09    1.52
viaU    saw                                                             ir          2    1.09    1.24    1.50
Poor          3    1.3S    1.52    1.79
Ott n e 16.20  17.07   KiLceeter                                     _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Paveumut       2       1    1-paved  2-wyavwed                                         Gooseane    ea
COUdIIIC.      2        1    1-od,3hi,3poor                                -     .    ....
width        0.3     7.2                                                             Pavtergofar
Vised     04ir     .7i 0 luanInikm
Cal*ul&tedl                                                                Varible   I..    13.5 Tuanldairlyweb-inyr
6, 00         10731    V ehicle.   (mad    ith    0,.)   per   day_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
FATIuai 1    7,700   0,400    luau per In er year
War *"Ait     54      30    Tuas per da     wbupew year                        Capacity (eq medium tugh. per day)
Baee VWO    1.24    0."0   luau per                                                                  ...eb....
_________________ _________________ _______________        Be"     17,000    ( 250000.S'13*0.9)
crani,                 aua.vaan  u                                                   Width flatIo   lilly  lount
1990    1995    2000    2010    FAGt0C6C                                                        30  0
Vehicle.     865;   10-.83    6.8     5.3  1.00                                        5.   11,0    6,6080   061,400
Tractors     277     5.83    2.02    0.02  1.000                                      4N0  13.000  9,90    7,700
Otber      1,170     2.32    0.02   .5.03  0.047                                       7.5  14,'200  1:0.0,0  6,300
INMTAL. IOWSCTO  23*AMC                30OWA1 TRAMIC            MNTIAL 23031  a= OWHDIIDM P3OJIC?IU
'fUR         lobe; -- Trace   Othe---Ce.,             We.. race.            . eb.... Trace.C..'                Web. Trace .... ;
~~995  1176  521    1240   1,363  ~~~~~~1,176       321            1,9       353   1,755            1,296     353   1,733
1990        1294     55129   290 1,71               1,294     337            1,02      370   1.642            1,025     570   1,682
1995            1425     354    136 167                 I,425     M3             1.566     169   2,045            1,546     369   3,043
1996        2~~~339  341    132    1,:41,3   ~;1                             1,493     397   2,76             1,492     397   2,178
1997            1442     346    1326 2,119              1,42       166 1I29                005   2322             1,629    4005   2,522
199             1795     375    2326    ,5              1, 795    373            1,7        13   2.476            1,975     413   2.076
Is9             1939     165    13526   2,10            1,939     165            2,33      021   2,445           2,133      421   2,405
2000            2094     390    1320   2,73             2.094      390           2,304     029   2,022            2,34      029   2,822
2001            2190     390    1242    ,73             2,199      590           2,19      429   2932             2,019     029   2:,952
2002           2w0o      390    119    2779             2,309      390           2,1540    429   5.,009           2.40      429   5,049
2003            200      303    1139   2,913420                    590           2,447     029   3.172            2,667     039   3,172
2000            2504     390    1042   5,0              2.50"      390           2,800     429   3.30i2           2,600     029   3,302
2005            2673     3900   1026   5,13             2.673     390            2,940     429   3.416           21,940     429   3,438
2006            2604     So0     974   3,242           23,606      390           3.9067    429   3.362           3,067      029   3,562
2007            2947     390      926   3,39            2.97       390           3,241     429   3.733           3,241      029   5.733
2006            3094     390     66      ,54      3     5094      390            3.404     429   5,692           3,404      029   3.892
2009            3249     390      637   3.495           3,209      I90           3.574     029   4.059            3.574     429   40,59
2010            5011     390      795   3,635           3.011      390           3.5752    029   4.235            3,732     029   4.235
Te'llwzivn  couth  ates         MMOI1t traf to    l1lreFauI11                           gouuro&   tal tratfui
l*.*~~~~~**~~~ P ~~cap of eSiating read   pgeneated traffIce                            to capacity of new road
Zatimated Ctoat and Renefita
omIOUcOT "AVIMG
van"   RAFFI A2OM                                     .......... -.-ODATID am1                       WIC N*210       CM0  FACTOR
CommT   Him3    Diet   Diet    Ourf    Sufw----.-------0----e-
MR    Wb   Trace   mOST  (w Se)    Web.  Trceo   Veb.  Trceo    Web  Trace    am1                        go son WI son      Old     NeW
1995              1~~~~~-7.7;                                                      .17.7             0.24    0.16    1.00    1.00
1990                    17.7                                                             .17.7            0.26    0.16    1.00    1.00
1995   1,425     350           .0.49      0.2     0.0     3.5     0.2      0.2     0.0     0.9            0.28    0.17    1.00    1.00
1998   1.539     561            .0.74     0.2     0.0     3.6     0.2      0.2     0.0     5.2            0.30    0.19    1.00    1.00
1997   1,6a      360            .0.79     0.3     0.0     0.1     0.2      0.2     0.0     5.6            0.32    0.20    1.00    1.00
1996   1,795     375           .0.30      0.3     0.0     4.5     0.2      0.2     0.0     6.1            0.30    0.21    1.00    1.00
1999   1,939     383            40.90     0.3     0.0     4.6     0.2      0.3     0.0     4.5            0.37    0.22    1.00    1.00
2000   2.090     390            .0.94     0.3     0.0     5.2      0.2     0.5     0.0     7.0            0.39    0.20    1.00    1.00
2001   2,19      390            .1.00     0.3     %0      5.5      0.2     0.3     0.0     7.3            0.41    0.25    1.00    1.00
2003   2,309     390            .1.00     0.0   ~.a       5.7      0.2     0.3     0.0     7.7            0.42    0.26    1.00    1.00
2003   2,0620    390            .1.09     0.0     0.0     4.0      0.2     0.3     0.0     6.1            0.40    0.27    1.00    1.00
2000   2.046    390             .1.13     0.0     0.0     4.3      0.2     0.3     0.0     8.4            0.46    0.28    1.00    1.00
2003   2,:673    390            .1.16s    0.4     0.0     6.4      0.2     0.0     0.0     6.6            0.07    0.29    1.00    1.00
2006   3,606     390            -1.23     0.4     0.0     7.0      0.2     0.0     0.0     9.3            0.49    0.30    1.00    1.00
2007   2.947     390            .1.29     0.4     00      7.5      0.2     0.4     0.0     9.7            0.51    0.32    1.00    1.00
2008   3,090     3o0            .1.34     0.5     00      7.7      0.2     0.0     0.0    10.2            0.54    0.35    1.00    1.00
2009   3.209     590            .1.40     0.5     0.0     6.1      0.2     0.4     0.0    10.6            0.56    0.30    1.00    1.00
2010   3,411     390            .1.47     0.5     0.0     6.5      0.2     0.0     0.0    11.2            0.36    0.36    1.00    1.00
Reosamia EvajAaatio                                                                                        Congestlon
................ . .                                                           ....~~~~~~~~~~TI  f"actor    loar
Net Proeeet Value            15.3 Ivan "ULM......a...
Eccucuc Rate of Return       14.02                                                                              0.0    1.00    0.00
Mirt leer Rate of Return   11.92                                                                                0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    0.10
0.6    1.15    0.35
0.9    1.50    1.00
1.0    2.50    0.00



- 112 -                                          ANNEXIL
~k12_L
CSINA
GUNGWSNG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of First Packag goonomic Evaluations
Starting    1990              rinancial  Economic
Chainage   ADT    Distance      Cost        Cost      NPV   ErRR  FYRR
Seq No  Rt No. Rt type Location       (km)  (vah/day)    (km)          - 1Y millLon) --------- -         -----
Group A: Paving Existing Gravel Roads
1      106 National Shaoguan      2151      725       15.2         7.7         6.9   6.6    20    17
2      106 National Shaoguan       2172      740      14.7          7.5         8.5    9.8    24     21
3      106 National Shaeguan       2262     914       14.0         9.5        10.9  10.9    22    21
4      106 National Guangzhou      2440     626       14.4         7.5         8.6    6.0    19    16
5     323 National Qinyuan          585     856       1.5          8.7        10.0  13.5    26    23
6      323 National Qin8yuan        533     651       22.2        10.9        12.5  10.8    22    19
7     1911 Prov.   Qinryuan         162    1275       16.0         7.8         9.0  17.8    32    28
8     1923 Prov.    Shanwei          12    1101       20.2         7.9          9.1  15.8    31    28
9     1924 Prov.   Huiabou            2     1024      26.2        17.8        20.5  24.3    2e    2r
10    1989 Prov.    Zhanjiang         49    1101        7.1          2.5        2.9    6.1    34    31
Subtotal                                            167.5        87.8       101.0  121.6
Average                                    898                                              25    22
Group B: Rehabilitating Existing Paved Roads
1      106 National Shaoguan       2201    2168       11.0          5.5        6.3  29.0    81    70
2      106 National Shaoguan       2221    2188        9.0         4.5          5.2  25.2    75    57
3      106 National Shaoguan       2230    2188        5.0         2.6         3.0   11.6    56    36
4      106 National Qingyuan       2335    2042        7.0          2.7         3.1  19.3    68    47
5      106 National Qinyuan        2383    3381        9.0         1.8          2.1  37.7   226    185
6      106 National Guangshou      2474    4043        8.1         4.2          4.8  38.8   113    87
7     207 National Maoming         3421    4578       21.0          8.9       10.2  128.3   151   119
8     207 National Zhanjiang       3624    4778       ;1.0         5.4         6.2  75.2   112    83
9      325 National Yanajiang       250    6722        6.2          2.7         3.1  36.0   117    80
10     325 National Y.ngjiang        264    3778       12.0         5.2         6.0  39.6    70    45
11     325 National Zhaniiang        445    4321       11.0         4.5         5.2  46.2   108    78
12    1925 Prov.    Buizhou           2    5135        41.2        14.9        17.1  221.6   279   251
Subtotal                                           151.5        62.9        72.3  708.5
Average                                   4138                                             147   121
Group C: Upgrading Existing National Highways
1     206 National  Pinyuan        2047     885       37.0        48.8        56.9   7.0    16    12
2      206 National  Pinyuan       2137      685       18.8        30.3       35.3  15.0    16    12
Subtotal                                             55.8        79.1       92.2  22.0
Average                                    885                                              16    12
----_-------------------------------------------------------___--------__----__--------------_-_------_---------
Total                                                       374.8        229.8      265.5  852.1
Average                                                                                              55    45



- 113 -                          ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Procedures for Processing RIP SubDrojects
A. Criteria for SubRroiect Selection
1.        The criteria for obtaining the Bank's concurrence to include subpro-
jects in the RIP are as follows:
(a) the EIRR, calculated according to methodology presented in this
annex, should not be less than 12 percent;
(b) engineering design should be prepared according to the geometric
standards indicated in Table 1.7 of this SAR and sound engineering
practices;
(c) the procurement procedures should be in conformity with Bank Guide-
lines for Procurement, specifically paras. 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
thereof;
(d)  an Envisonmental Action Plan and, for subprojects with potential
adverse impact on the environment or located in environmentally
sensitive areas, an Environmental Assessment, prepared as outlined
in Annex 3 to this SAR; and
(e) a Resettlement Action Plan prepared in accordance with the proce-
dures followed for the Foshan-Kaiping and Longgang-Tanxi Highways,
as described in Annex 4 to this SAR.
B. Subproiect Information for Bank's Review
2.        The following information is required to be submitted to obtain the
Bank's no objection to contracting each of the subprojects under the RIP.
3.        Economic Evaluation.  Subproject descriptions, economic evaluation
information, and detailed calculations of the EIRR, should follow the format
as presented in Annex I of this SAR..
4.        Engineering Desien.  The engineering design should be prepared
according to national standards as determined by MOC. The design documenta-
tion and technical specifications need not be forwarded to the Bank but they
should be made available to Bank missions on request in the field.
5.        Biddina Documentation.  The procurement procedure, and therefore
bidding documentation required, would depend ci the size of contract.
6.        Contracts with an estimated cost of $2.0 million or more would be
awarded following Local Com-etitive Bidding (LCB) procedures and each contract



- 114 -
ANNEX 1
AT,Dendix 1
Page 2
would be subject to review prior to the issuance of invitation to bid. How-
ever, since the HOF-approved sample LCB documentation would be used, the sub-
mission of doeuments for Bank clearance, after tas submission of the first
complete documentation, would be restricted to the following sections (which
should be in English):
Volume I             -   Cover sheets (about 3 pages)
Volume I Section 0   -   Invitation for Bids (about 2 pages)
Invitation for Bids (about 2 pages)
Instruction to Bidders (about 5 pages)
Section 3            -   Special Conditions of Contract
-   Data Sheet
Conditions of Particular Application
Section 4            -   Contract Forms (iZ different from those in
sample documents)
Volume III           -  Appendix to Form of Bid
Section 8            -   Schedule of Supplementary Information
(if different from those in the sample
document)
7.        Any deviation from the sample documentation or the first Bank-
approved version of Volume I and Volume III should also be submitted to the
Bank for each LCB subproject. A detailed bid evaluation report is required
with recommendations to award the LCB contract to the lowest evaluated bidder.
8.        Subprojects with an estimated contract cost of less than $2.0 mil-
lion equivalent would be awarded on the basis of at least three bids from
qualified contractors. After the Bank's cleauance of an English language
standard bidding document, it would not be required to submit bidding docu-
ments to the Bank for clearance prior to bidding. However, key information
regarding the main features of each of the subprojects covered by the contract
should be sunmarized in English indicating the characteristics of the works
covered by the contract evaluation summary and the proposal for contract award
(contractor, contract amount, duration of contract, etc.).
9.        In case GPCD/GPHAB would prefer to use the sample LCB bidding docu-
ment for procurement under direct invitation, the information to be submitted
to the Bank prior to award of contract should be much the same as listed in
para. 6 above for LCB.
10.       Retorting on Enyironmental Analysis.  Annex 3 of the SAR clearly
defines the requirements regarding Environmental Analysis. An SAP should be
submitted for each subproject based on the guidelines to be set up in the
SEAP.



- 115 -                          ANNEi I
Ansendix 1
Page 3
11.       For Category One subprojects, which are ncr  expected to hart adverse
environmental impacts, the RAP should be based on the guidelines established
in the SEAP, indicating the appropriate measures which are reiuired to be
taken in accordance with sound environmental practice for subprojects during
project preparation and implementation. A tabular presentation, citing appro-
priate clauses of the SEAP, would be sufficient.
12.       For Category Two subprojicts, which could have a potentially adverse
impact on the environment, an A is also required to provide the basis for a
more detailed RAP. The EA/HAP procems is now weil established in the Province
and the Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (GPEPB) and
Guangdong Provincial Highway Design Institute are well acquainted with the
Bank's requirements in this respect. The HA and HAP for Category Two subproj-
ects could follow the pattern established for the Foshan-Raiping and Longgang-
Tanxi Highway components of the project as presented in Annex 3 of the SAR,
subject to adjustments depending on the complexity of the environmental pro-
tection requirements.
13.       Resettlement Action Plan.  A RAP is required for each subproject
which should be prepared following the format adopted for the Foshan-Kalping
and Longgang-Tanxi Highway. (see Annex 4).
C. Summal
14.       .or each RIP subproject, the following documentation is required to
be submitted to the Bank for clearance:
(a) Prior to Issuance of Bidding Document
Clearance of LCB bidding documents prior to issuance of invitation
to bid (para. 6).
(b)  Prior to Award of Contracts:
*    economic evaluation summaries (para. 3);
*    recommendation for LCB contract award (for subprojects with an esti-
mated contract cost of $2.0 million or more) (para. 6);
*    procurement information summary (for subprojacts with an estimated
contract amount below $2.0 million) (para. 8);
*    HAP, and also an Environmental Asessment for Category Two subproj-
ects (para. 10-12); and
*    RAP (para. 13).
15.       The Bank's acceptance of the above set of documents and submittal of
the signed copies of contracts would be the condition of disbursement.



- 116 -
Page 1
CHINA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWVAY PROJECT
Hiahwav Pinancing Technical Assistance
Outline Terms of Reference
A. Obiectives
1.        The objectives of the Highway Financing Technical Assistance are to
identify and implement a revised system of highway financing which would
ensure adequate funding for highway maintenance and construction activities in
GP, but which would impose the least restraint on the development of highway
transportation services.
B. Background
2.        The current system of highway financing is based on a complex struc-
ture of vehicle and road user charges, including periodic (some annual, some
monthly) vehicle license and use fees, tolls on selected bridges and highways,
levies on road freight company revenues, and passenger tariff surcharges.
These are supplemented by grants from the Province and from Central Government
(which are mostly derived from vehicle purchase and import fees), bank loans
(domestic and foreign), and contributions from local comunities and overseas
donors. The road user charge structure is based on a system defined by cen-
tral government and co-mon to all provinces, but it has evolved over time and
now has distinctive features peculiar to Guangdong.
3.        With the rapidly growing vehicle fleet making diiarply increasing
demands on the road system, the time has come to rationalize the highway
financing system and develop a more equitable user fee structure. A revised
system of fees and usage charges, developed in line with modern practice,
would ensure that revenues kept pace with the increasing demands for highway
maintenance and construction, particularly as traffic grows and heavier vehi-
cles (which are more damaging to highway pavements) become more prevalent. As
well as reviewing the current tolling systems for high grade highways, the
Province would also 'ike to examine other ways of raising capital for highway
investment, including construction bonds and forms of shareholding in highway
development enterprises.
4.        HOC in Beijing, through the HSRI, has recently undertaken a review
of highway financing in the Bank-supported "Road Funding Study"; the report on
the study waa published in July 1991. The Road Funding Study focussed on
highway funding requirements at National level; while providing a valuable
foundation on which to base this technical assistance, the special nature of
highway and economic development in Guangdong Province requires a thorough
review of the assumptions and reconmendetions. For example, highway tolls
make an important contribution to funding revenues in Guangdong Province, but
were not considered significant in the Road Funding Study based on experience
in less developed provinces.



- 117 -
Page 2
5.        It is proposed to carry out the technical assistance in three
stagess
Stage 1: Preparation
Stage 2: Discussion
Stage 3: Implementation
6.        Only Stage 1, the Preparation Stage, can be outlined in any detail
at this time, but the scope of the subsequent stages must be considered e.
that the Preparation Stage can be planned adequately.
C. Stage 1: Preparation
7.        The preparation stage would have two important functions:  (i) to
make a detailed review and analysis of the current financing system, and (ii)
to identify, quantify, and evaluate alternative systems for future highway
financing, and make recommendations to Government,
Preparation Tasks
8.        The various tasks of the preparation stage are outlined below.
9.        Task 1: Identify Existina Financina Sources.  Identify all existing
sources of highway financing revenues. These will include the following vehi-
Lie based fees:
(a)  Road Maintenance Fee
(b)  Added Vehicle Purchase Fee
(c)  Vehicle Use Fee
(d)  Transport Administration Fee
(e)  License Plate Fee
(f) Annual Vehicle Examination Fee (including certification cost)
10.       Other sources of financing to be identified should inzlude:
(a)  Road tolls
(b)  Passenger and freight tariff surcharges
(c) Grants from central and local government
(d)  Loans from banks, domestic and foreign
(e)  Use of free labor to maintain rural roads
(f)  Other contributions
11.       Finally, other revenues levied on vehicles and transport activities
should be identified, including product taxes and excise duties on fuel and
vehicle purchases/imports.
12.       Task 2: Evaluate Existint Revenue Sources.  For each source of
revenue, the following aspects should be investigated and evaluated:
(a) The basis for each fee/charge/toll and how it is calculated;
(b) Annual revenues since 1980



- 118 -
ANNEX2
Page 3
(c) The current allocation of net revenues to:
(i) type of activity--maintenance (periodic and routine), construc-
tion, administration;
(ii) class of highway;
(iII)  level of government (central, provincial, municipal, prefec-
tural, county, etc.);
(iv) agency (e.g., maintenance units, PSB); and
(v) geographic region.
13.       Task 3:  Assess Current Orranization and Staffing of Revenue Collec-
tion Agencies, The structure and staffing of the agencies responsible for
collecting revenues should be assessed from three viewpoints:
(a) identifying numbers of staff by geographic location, and the extent
to vhich this task is shared vith other related or unrelated tasks
by the same agency;
(b)  from this  nalysis, the direct and indirect costs of collecting
revenues for each agency can be estimated, and therefore an estimate
of the net revenues after administration costs are deducted; and
(c) the extent to which provincial revenue collection is dependent on,
or closely integrared with, revenue collection in other regions
which would require external consultations or liaisong for example,
Guangzhou Municipality.
14.       Taok 4t Analyze Past HiahWaV Exnenditures.  Assemble tables of past
expenditures on highway construction and maintenance. The tables should be
subdivided by subcategory of expenditure, separately identifying expenditures
on administration. Breakdovns of expenditures by agency and geographic region
should be made to identify accurately the agency and function of each category
of expenditure. If revenue sources are linked to specific maintenance or
construction activities, these links should be clearly identified in this
task.
l5.       Task 5t Estimate Future HiRhwav Construction Funding Needs.  Esti-
mates should be based on the future road developmert program for the province.
There must be some uncertainty about the size of this program which will
depend on many other things besides financing availability. In particular,
the future road program must be related to the growth in highway transport
demand, and this will depend on the location and extent of ruture economic
growth. Cortainly, all major highways would require a full evaluation to
establish the scale and timing of investments. The capacity of the provincial
road construction industry must also be a factor. Given these uncertainties,
esti2ates should be made of a range of future investment levels, linking these
to alternative economic growth scenarios, and (very broadly) to the related
tequirements for additional highway capacity.



- 119 -
A=NEX 2
Page 4
16.       Care must be taken that future expenditures on minor roads, which
are not normally programmed far in advance, are properly accounted for.
Also, if revenue sources (such as the road maintenance fee) normallv cover
urban as well as inter-urban highway investments, then either allowance must
be made for urban construction needs in projecting expenditures, or adjust-
ments must later be made to the revenue estimates to deduct the funds normally
allocated to urban expenditures.
17.       Task 6:   stimate Future Highway Maintenance Funding Needs.  Funds
for highway maintenance should be projected based only partly on past experi-
ence. Since the size, weight and utilization of the vehicle fleet are all
increasing significantly, a sharp increase in future maintenance needs can be
expected. Projections of future maintenance needs should therefore take
account of the strengths of existing pavements and the likely increases in
wear caused by growing traffic volumes. This could most conveniently be done
using the World Benk EDM, currently being calibrated as part of the prepara-
tion of this pro4ect using data in the Guangdong RDB and PMS. As with con-
struction funding needs, a range of projected funding should be established
based on alternative economic growth scenarios.
18.       Task 7:  Pro1ect Revenue Parameters.  Inveotigate and project para-
meters which currently do, or which in the future could, provide a basis for
highway user charging. These would include such things as:
(a) Vehicle fleet growth, by class of vehicle, identifying the changing
composition of the vehicle fleet, separately identifying locally
manufactured and imports
(b) Vehicle axle configurations and loadings--this should include a
survey of axle loadings at a sample of existing location.
(c) Vehiele utilization
(d) Consumption of fuel, for both gasoline and diesel
19.       For parameters which are expected to be particularly critlcal, in
particular the vehicle fleet projections, it would be necessary to prepare a
range of plausible forecast scenarios related to alternative growth rates of
the economy (and possibly to different vehicle import policies), in order to
later explore the implications for the highway financing systems proposed.
20.       Task 8s  Identify Alternative Highway Financina Svstems.  A key task
is to identify alternative financing systems to meet the projectioas of high-
way funding need., and the likely devalopment of Guangdong Province. There
are potentially three important and distinct components of future financing
systems to be considereds (i) the scope for road user charaes which raise
revenues (such as vehicle fees, fuel surcharges, tolls, etc.), (il) the extent
to which the provincial highway authorities will be eligible for grants from
either central or local government, and (iii) the scope for financial instru-
ments such as foreign or domestic loans and construction bonds, which do not
provide financing revenues as such but which permit current funding needs to
be financed from future revenues. This leads to three subtasks:



- 120 -
ANNX 2
Page 5
21.       Subtask 8(a): Road User Charaes.  The range of options for road user
charges must be identified and quantified, considering both existing and
alternative sources of revenues. In particular, the potential role of fuel
price surcharges must be explored. For each type of user charge identified,
the following aspects must be considered and analyzed:
(a)  The basis for each proposed charge/fee/toll and the way    which it
is to be calculated;
(b) The likely future revenues under the different economic growth sce-
narios identified in an earlier task;
(c) The distribution of revenue income between the various branches of
central and local Government, noting the implications this has for
future highway funding allocation.
22.       A key issue is the relative efficiency and equity of the alternative
user charges in relation to recovering the costs imposed on the highway system
by different classes of vehicles. This should be examined by identifying
separately the traffic-related and nontraffic related costs of road damage and
repair, and further separating the traffic-related costs into those related to
vehicle weight (or more properly axle weight) and those related to road occu-
pancy. With this information, it is possible to devise a structure road user
charges so that users pay according to the costs they impose e.g., higher
vehicle fees for those high-axle-load vehicles which cause significant pave-
ment damage.
23.       Subtask 8(b):  Grants and Loans.  The availability of future grants
from central and local government will depend to some extent on the structure
of road user charges. For example, revenues from the Added Vehicle Purchase
Fee (AVPF), currently levied on the purchase of new vehicles, are routed to
MOC and come to the provinces 'n the form of grants for National Highway
improvement projects, but the amount of grants to each province is not linked
to the AVPF revenues raised in that province. Probably future grants should
be treated as a residual in presenting alternative highway financing systems;
that is to say, as the shortfall of revenues raised by other means compared to
funding needs.
24.       Subtask 8(c):  Financial Instruments.  The potential role for finan-
cial instruments such as loans and bonds needs specialist advice. They would
probably be directly linked to specific revenue earning projects such as high
class highways and major bridges. Given the recent success of major projects
in GP, these are likely to be useful sources of highway financing.
25.       Task 9: Evaluate Future Hiahwav Financing SYstems.  For each alter-
native highway financing system considered, total revenues from all sources
must be compared with projected highway funding needs. A base case must also
be examined comprising an extension of the current system unchanged.
26.       Ta&k 10: Evaluate Implementation Requirements.  The requirements
and implications for the agencies concerned in implementing a revised system
of highway financing must be fully assessed before coming to recommendations
for changes. This should include the need for staffing reductions, additional



ANNEX 2
- 121 -                              Page 6
staffing requirements, retraining needs, and the period required for implemen-
tation.
27.       Task llt  Prepare Recommendations.  The final task of the prepara-
tion stage will be to prepare a report describing the work accomplished and
making a recommendation to decision makers.
Preuaration Schedule and ReDorting
28.       It is envisaged that the Preparation Stage could be completed in
twelve months, considering the following three broad phasees:
(a) analysis of past highway revenues and expenditures, and the current
administrative organization and staffing (tasks 1-4);
(b)  projections of future funding needs, and analysis of alternative
financing systems (tasks 5-8); and
(c) evaluation of alternatives and preparation of r%commendations (tasks
9-11).
29.       While there could be overlaps between each of the three phases,
particularly (i) and (ii), it is envisaged that a report on the first phase
(past trends and curront organization) be prepared after four months, and a
report on the second phase (alternative projections) after eight months. The
third phase would be concluded by a Final Report with recommendations. The
Final Report shoulds
(a) Summarize the findings on current highway financing system;
(b) Present a range of alternative financing systems, together with
their imp'Lications on administration and fund allocation, detailing
the key assumptions and sensitivities to alternative growth projec-
tions; and
(c) Make recommendations on the financing system to be adopted by the
province.
Preparation Stage Organization
30.       The team would comprise three groupst
(a) staff from Guangdong Province familiar with the highway construction
and maintenance program, and with the current highway financing
system, who will assemble the relevant information on past expendi-
tures and revenues, and on the current organization and staffing of
highway financing, and who will provide the overall leadership for
the Preparation Stage;
(b) a technical team from the Xian Highway Institute to lead the analy-
tical work of assessing the existing highway financing system, and
developing and evaluating alternatives; and



-122 -                               Page 7
(a) foreign experts to provide speci%list advice on the followingt
(i) the economic theory and pract:'ca of highway user charging sys-
tome; and
(11)  use of construction bonds and other form of financial instru-
ments.
31.       The work of the team could be controlled through a leading group led
by the Director of the World Bank Financing Office under the GPCD and comprie-
Ing members from the Provincial Planning Commission, Provincial Finance
Department, the Price Control Department, and the Biegway Administration
Bureau and Science and Technology Div'Bion of the GPCD.
D. Stage 2: Discussions
32.       The discussion stage cannot be programed in detail, and the time
required will depend on the ecopO of the changes recomended. Diecussions
will be needed at several levele of Government, including:
(a) with different provincial departments including the Office of the
Governor, GPPC, and Guangdong Provincial Finance Bureau;
(b) with agencies and institutions in the province which would be
affected by organizational and staff changes or training;
(c) with Guangzhou Mhnicipality and other local governments in the Prov-
Ince which have autonomy of any aspect of highway financing subject
to change by the proposals from Stage 1; and
(d) With Central Government In Beijing; specifically the hX)C, the Minis-
try of Finance (MOP), and the SPC.
33.       The outcome of the Discussion Stage should be the selection of an
agreed highway financing system.
E.  Staae 3:  ImDlementation
34.       Once agreement has been reached on the ecope and nature of the
changes to the highway financing system, detailed plane can be prepared for
Implementation. These should have been worked out to eome degree of detail in
the Preparation Stage to permit the proper evaluation of the alternatives, but
further work will be required to finalize these plans. The key areas to con-
sider are:
(a) modification. needed to the ezistivS organizational structures, and
possible need to create new organizational structures;
(b) staff reallocation and training;
(c) detailed timetable for Implementation; and
(d) publicity to notify the public of the changes to be made.



- 123 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
CINA
GUAWGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Environmental Assesmeat. Mnaaement. and Monitorint Sumary
for Highway Infrostructure Components of the Project
A. Background
1.        The proposed project is composed of financial support for the con-
struction of two major new highways, the Foshan-Kaiping and the Longgang-Tanxi
Highways, *nd programmatic assistance for the improvement of the provincial
road network In GP through the RIP. This annex addresses environmental issues
relevant to the physical components of the project and how the institutional
and trainitg components may relate to perceived needs in the environmental
sector of the Guangdong Provincial Government's administration of this project
and of highway construction and operation in the province.
2.        The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assess-
ment of development projects in China followed during preparat'on and evalua-
tion of an EA Include the following:
(a) Management Guidelines on Enviromental Protection of Construction
Projects of PRC, 19861
(b) Regulations for Engineering Design on Environmental Protection of
Construction projects, 1987;
(c) Directive No. 17 of the Ministry of Communications, PRC/1990, Man-
agement Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction Proj-
ectst and
(d) Management Procedures for Environmental Protection of Construction
Projects, NEPA, 1990.
3.        A project proponent is required to undertake, directly or through a
technical institution, an Initial Environmental Analysis for submission to the
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau at the prefeasibility stage of a
highway proposal. For major infrastructure projects, the next step is the
preparation of an EA. Only specially licensed institutions can undertake EAs
In China. A completed EL would be submitted to the HOC for preevaluation,
which is normally done by a panel of experts including representatives of thie
National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). NEPA's clearance of the ELA
is required for projects costing more than Y 200 million and for obtaining
SPC's approval to go ahead with the engineering design for proposed highway
projects.
4.        The above-outlined internal procedures were followed for the envi-
rormental analysis of the Foshan-Kalping and Longgang-Tanxi Highway. before
the project was brought to the Bank for possible financial support. The ELs



- 124 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
and environmental action plans for the cwo highways were submitted to the Bank
before the preappraisal mission left for China in October, 1991. The Bank's
review and comments on the EAs and RAPs were provided to the GP in the Pre-
appraisal Aide Memoire. One result of this review led to the conduct of a
detailed wetland survey of the Lufeng Marsh area, which is near a section of
the Longgang to Tanxi Highway. This study was completed before project
Appraisal, and expanded the EA prepared for this subproject. This information
was incorporated into the EA Summaries transmitted, as required by the Bank's
OD 4.0, before the Appraisal Mission left for China. A final RAP incorporat-
ing the Bank's commente on the earlier draft, was submitted to the Bank on
January 17, 1991.
5.        The assessment of environmental impact of subprojects in the Road
Improvement Program would be ongoing over the life of the loan. Assessments
for the first batch of these subprojects would be available for Bank review
before loan negotiations.
B. The Foshan to KaiDinR HigLhwav
6.        An EA of the Foshan-Kaiping Highway was prepared by the Shanghai
Ship and Shipping Research Institute and was submitted to the GOC in December,
1990. It has been ascertained that the highway would not affect ecologically
sensitive areas, and if appropriate actions.are taken, should not have adverse
impact on the environment. Based on the EA's findings and subsequent to dis-
cussions between the representatives of GP and Bank staff, an EAP was prepared
specifying the measures required for eliminating or mitigating potential
adverse effects on the environment during the construction and operation of
the two highways.
Baseline Environmental DescriDtion
7.        ToDooraphv and Climate.  The corridor along the right of way (ROW)
lies to the just south of the north tropic, and belongs to the south subtropi-
cal monsoon oceanic climate group. The prevailing winA is from the south
during the summer, and from the north during winter months.  The annual aver-
age temperature is 21.6 degrees centigrade, average relative humidity is
83 percent, and annual rainfall is 1,619-1,800 mm. The ROW is divided by the
Xijiang River, with the northern part running though the Pearl River Delta.
This area is characterized by soft soils overlain by cultivatable land. The
southern section of the proposed highway passes through both flat and hilly
land, starting from the Chen Mountain. It then passes by several villages,
crosses the Guang-Zhan Highway and terminates at Shuikou, on the border of
Kaiping County, meeting the Grade II highway in Kaiping County that was
rebuilt and widened in 1989.
8.        Air Qualitv.  The new pollution source in the area of the ROW likely
to result from highway construction and operation is exhaust gas from vehi-
cles. Dust generated during construction is also a potential environmental
issue. The EA therefore established baseline air quality conditions based on
analysis of air samples along the ROW for the following parameters: CO (car-
bon monoxide), NOx (nitrous oxides), TUC (total hydrocarbons), TSP (total sus-
pended particulates-dust), Pb (lead). Results indicated that no pollutant



-125-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
exceeded the GOC national standards, based on daily mean concentrations (Table
1). The atmospheric stability classification is generally neutral, and the
frequency of temperature inversion is over 50 percent, with would tend to
inhibit quick dispersal of pollutants.
9.        Of particular interest was lead levels in plants and soils along the
proposed ROW. The objective was to determine background levels of lead in
edible plants which would then serve as a point of comparison when estimating
likely impact of lead emissions from vehicle exhausts once the highway became
operational. Lead levels were found to be within public health standards,
although somewhat elevated in plants and soils within 30 m of major roads in
the study area.
10.       Noise Quality.  A total eight cross sections were analyzed for back-
ground noise during the EA. The objective was to establish background levels
of noise along the ROW and at noise sensitive locations such as schools and
residences. The noise levels obtained were within the GOC standards (Table
2), The reference sensitive point (perceived as the most noise sensitive area)
at Jili High School does not exceed the class II hybrid area standard, and the
school is 300 m from the ROW.
I1.       Hydroloav and Water Qualitv.  The north section of the Foshan to
Kaiping Highway is close to the network of waterways in the Pearl River Delta.
Rivers such as the Dongpin, Fengliang, Jili, Beijiang and Jinjiang all flow
from northwest to southeast. The Dongpin and Xijiang are classified as "water
protection rivers" and are near the highway ROW.
12.       The pH, BOD5 (five day biological oxygen demand), COD (chemical
oxygen demand), SS (suspended solids), Pb, and oil/grease values from samples
taken from the Dongpin, Fegjiang and Xijiang Rivers suggest that waters from
these rivers fall with class I, II or III standards (Table 3).
13.       Cultural and Archeological Aspects.  The ROW does not pass near or
through areas having known cultural or archeological significance.
Imoact Analysis
14.       It Was determined that the most significant impacts that could
result from construction and operation of the Foshan to Kaiping Highway would
include:
(a) Physical destruction of natural habitat, cultural relics and his-
toric sites, homes, businesses, and infrastructure within the ROW;
(b) Pollution resulting from vehicle exhaust emission caused by
increased vehicle movements along the highway;
(c) Increased noise in the area of the ROW because of construction
activities and because of increased traffic volume moving at speed
during highway operation, and its impact on areas of human habita-
tion and congregation;



- 126 -
Page 4
(d) Potential pollution of surface and ground wators during construction
and operation (particularly highway service areas).
15.       The most likely and significant of the expected atmospheric impacts
relate to duset caused by earthworks, and material transport. Nolse Is also a
potential problem, especially during evening and early morning houro.
16.       Noise within 60 m of the ROW is likely to exceed the allowable lim-
its by the year 2010. After 1996, some village areas and schools would
already be impacted by noise unleoss protection measures are taken.
17.       There is expected to be some runoff from bitumen sealed road sur-
faces. This runoff may contain short-chain hydrocarbons and oil that may be
troublesome to farmlands and fish ponds. Drainage I. to be designed to avoid
this problem.
18.       Ground vibrations caused by vehicle  movement are not predicted to be
a problem, although models suggest that vibration standards may be exceeded 10
m beyond the road sides after the year 2010.
19.       Traffic along public roads could become congested if used as access
into the ROW during the highway construction period.
Environmental Management Plannina
20.       Route Location.  The ROW was selected from 6 alternatives.  The
basis for route selection of the chosen alternative route was on economic and
technical grounds, including onvironmental considerations. Established cri-
teria in route selection includedt
(a) Minimize the area of good quality agricultural land needed for the
subproject;
(b)  Circumvent all archeological sites;
(c)  Avoid cities, towns and large residential areas;
(d)  Avoid, as much as possible, engineering problem  such as soft soil.
and steep topography that carry environmental burdens;
(e)  Avoid isolation of cormunities or communities from farmland.
21.       Cultural/Archaeoloalcal Issues.  It is GOC law J/ that any cul-
tural relices discovered in a construction site must bJ removed by the Provin-
cial Cultural Relics Research Institute before construction can reoummence.
I/ The National Cultural Relics Protection Law and the Guangdong Provinlcal
Relics Implementation Clause of this law would require all construction
activities to cease if an antiquity site was discovered during expreeway
construction.



-127-
ANNEX 3
This is reinforced by the requirement for Contractors to adhere to clause 27.1
of The Conditions for Works of Civil Engine3ring Construction of FIDIC (which
is included in the Contractor Tender). There are no known sites of cultural
or archeological importance within the right of way (ROW) of the highway.
22.       Hydrologv and Water Qualitv.  The design of the highway would allow
unhindered passage of a 1 in 100 year return flood, with major bridges being
designed to pass 1 in 300 year return floods (local flood prevention stan-
dard). Contractors would be required to construct and satisfactorily maintain
septic tanks for offices, temporary accommodation and other sites containing
ablution facilities. Storage (especially fuels), warehouses, laydown areas
are to be sited away from surface waters and provided with ring drains and
soak pits to prevent accidental spills from reaching surface waters.
23.       During construction of road drainage works, the Contractor shall
construct temporary by-passes to facilitate continued use of irrigation chan-
nels and drainage.
24.       Air & Noise Oualitv Issues.  Control of dust during construction
would consist of staging of work to avoid unnecessarily exposing soils to wind
and rain erosion. During dry weather, water is also to be spread over
remolded and exposed soils at least 2 times per day, up to a maximum of 4
times per day, at the diecretion of the Joint Supervision Department. Asphalt
mixing plants must be between 500 to 1,000 m from areas of human habitation
and congregation if located upwind of these areas. Construction activities in
areas of human habitation and congregation are to be limited to between the
hours of 6 am and 10 pm if noise production is likely to be excessive.
Cement-bound aggregate mixing plants, materials stores and warehouses, stone
crushing and screening machines are to be set up far from areas of human habi-
tation and congregation. The cost of constructing noise barriers to control
operational noise levels are to be added to the highway tender document.
These noise barriers are to be constructed at 18 locations along the Foshan-
Kaiping highway, with total length being 2,910 m (Table 4). Where necessary,
special graded pavement would also be used to minimize tire noise caused by
heavy traffic along sensitive areas along the highway. It was further recom-
mended that the speed limit near populated areas should be no more than 60
km/hr.
23.       It was determined from numerical modeling that pollutants sourced
from vehicle exhausts would be only a minor issue, as the model and existing
literature suggests that deposition of problem ions such as lead is very lim-
ited and localized. Trees would be planted to minimize these problems outside
tho area of the ROW.
26.       Traffic VEnsAement Durint Construction.  A survey of public roads
that would be used as access into the construction sites of the highway were
undertaken by the GP. The following were identified as places that may have
traffic problem during subproject construction:
(a) Contract I (kO+130-klO+500): Fenjiang Bridge, Foshan Bridge, Luocun,
Zhangehal



- 128 -
AM=  3
Page 6
(b)  Contract II (klO+500-k28+000): Nanzhuans, Shiwan, Lechong, Xiqiao
bridge, Shantou and Longshang
(c) Contract III (k28+000-k41+000)s Jiujiang town, South bank (Shaping
Bank) of Jiujiang Bridge at k41;
(d) Contract IV (k41+000-k8O+000)s At juncture of Zhishan town, Heshan
County and Shuikou town, Kaiping County (juncture of end of the
project and Guang-zhan highway).
27.       The Contractor and the Ministry of Public Security is responsible
for maintaining regular control of these trouble areas. The environmental
monitoring program includes evaluation of effectiveness of traffic management.
28.       Prevention of traffic problems and accidents would also be managed
during highway operation. Signs, lane marking, traffic surveillance and con-
trol systems, emergency telephone system would be established according to
National Laws and Regulations.
29.       Miscellaneous Management Actions.  All borrow and quarry sites to be
used during construction of the highway have been surveyed by the Provincial
Environmental ?rotection Bureau. A list of the areas that can be exploited
for highway construction in an environmentally acceptable way has been pre-
pared and would be attached to construction tender documents. The tender
would specify that only material from environmentally acceptable quarries can
be used. New quarries and borrow pits specifically opened by the successful
contractors are to be located in uncultivatable land and barren hillo, and
rehabilitated after use.
30.       If the Contractor uses existing Provincial and rural roads as access
into the construction site, the Contractor shall maintain the road and manage
traffic on it. Costs of temporary roads, or maintenance of existing public
roads and traffic management should be in costs of the engineering works, and
cannot be meas ired separately, except for those that are specifically men-
tioned in the Bill of Quantity of Works.
31.       Transport of dangerous goods along the highway must first be
approved by the public security, fire protection and traffic departments. An
emergency team would be established. The head of this team shall be she GPFC,
and the Deputy Head from the GPEPB. Members of the team would be drawn from
the Environmental Surveillance Centers, the Fire Brigade, and Departments of
Chemical Industry and Sanitation. A contingency plan for handling hazardous
materials accidents has been prepared by the GPPC.
32.       Table 5 presents a summary of environmental management measures
required, along with the or%2nization responaible for implementing or monitor-
ing effectiveness of the management measure. Where the management measure
deals specifically vith construction and the construction contractor, the
relevant clause in the construction tender document(s) is also listed. Table
6 is a summary list of investment proposed for environmental protection.



- 129 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
C. Lonegann to Tanxl Hihkway
33.       An EA of the Longgang-Tanxi Highway was prepared by the Highway
Scientific Research Institute of the Ministry of Communications and was sub-
mitted to the GOC in November, 1989. It has been ascertained that the highway
would not affect ecologically senuitive areas, and if appropriate actions are
taken, should not have adverse impact on the environment. Based on the EA's
findings and subsequent to discussions between the representatives cf GP and
Bank staff, an EAP was prepared specifying the measures required for eliminat-
ing or mitigating potential adverse effects on the environment during the
construction and operation of the two highways.
Baseline Environmental Conditions
34.       To0ograyhv and Climate.  The Shenzhen to Shantou Highway (of which
the Bank supported Longgang to Tanxi Highway is a part) is 286.7 km. It
passes through one city and six counties (Chantour city, Huiyang County,
Huidong Cc aty, Haifong County, Lufeng County, Hu.ilei County, Chaoyang County.
The route is located in the south of the Tropic of Cancer and the climate is
characterized by subtropical monsoon climate with high temperatures and fre-
quent rainfall. Average rainfall is between 1,514 and 2,399 mm, falling
mainly during April to September. During winter, northerly winds prevail,
while summer winds come mainly from the east. Most storms occur during May to
September. Greatest monitored wind speeds were in Shantou and reached 52.1
mjsecond
35.       The highway is located near the southeast coastal line of Guangdong
Province. The area is hilly with more light rolling areas and lesser areas of
flat terrain. The mountains are mainly located in the border between Hidong
County and Haifong County. The rolling areas occupy most sections of the ROW.
Normal elevation is about 100-300 m above sea level.
36.       Air Quality.  The area through which the ROW passes is mainly agri-
cultural, but the nature of the terrain has resulted in relatively low popula-
tion densities. The EA sampled and arslyzed baseline air quality through
determination of CO, NOx, THC, TSP con,entrations. As expected, the existing
air quality is good and results indicate that the area along the ROW generally
conforms to Class I National Standards (highest level).
37.       Noise Quality.  The EA established 7 surveillance areas for noise
along the ROW. The sites chose were representative of the ROW as a whole, but
were also weighted to include areas particularly sensitive to noise such as
schools and residences. The results of the survey indicated that present
noise along the ROW fall within the "mixed criteria" of the second category of
the national noise standards (GB 3096-82, see Table 2).
38.       Hydrologv and Water QualitZ.  The proposed route crossos 13 large
rivers. However, the route usually crosses near the mouths of these rivers
and little downstream impact is expected. The pH, BOD5 (five day biological
oxygen demand), COD (chemical oxygen demand), SS (suspended solids), Pb, and
oil/grease values from samples taken from the Luohe, Lian-jiang and Da-hao
Rivers suggest that these waters fall within class I, II or III standards



- 130 -
ANDLK 3
Page 8
(Table 3). Ground waters along the ROW were also analyzed for dissolve oxy-
gen, ammonia nitrogen, cyanide, mercury, chromium and cadmium and found to be
within drinking water standards.
39.       Cultural/Archeological Issues.  The highway does not pa.. through
scenic, recreation, cultural relies protection or animal and botanical protec-
tion areas. The residential areas (including school.) and rivers are the main
ecological focus of Impact assessment.
40.       Ecoloaical Issues.  The ROW generally follows a coastal route, and
traverses through or near a number of wetland areas. Almost all of these
areas have already been converted to ricaland. However, the Lufeng wetland is
recognized as an area important to local and migratory birds. The EA was
expanded to include a survey of wetlands (particularly the Lufeng wetlands
that are near one section of the highway ROW). This was completed and deliv-
ered to the Bank before the Appraisal Mission departed for China. The results
of this survey were that the proposed highway would have little or no physical
effect on the Lufeng wetland or the birds using the area.
Imoact Analysis
41.  It was determined that the most significant impacts that could result
from construction and operation of the Longgeng to Tanx. section of the
Shenzhen to Shantou Highway would includes
(a)  Physical destruction of natural habitat, homes, businesses, and
infrastructure within the ROW;
(b) Pollution resulting from vehicle exhaust emission caused by
increased vehicle movements along the highway;
(c) Increased noise in the area of the ROW because of construction
activities and because of increased traffic volume moving at speed
during highway operation, and its Impact on areas of human habita-
tion and congregation; and
(d) Potential pollution of surface and ground waters during construction
and operation (particularly highway service areas).
42.       The most likely and significant of atmospheric impacts relate to
dust caused by earthworks, and material transport. It is xpected, however,
that dust levels within 40 m of the side of the road would meet national stan-
dards on most days. Noise is also a potontial problems, especially during
evening and early morning hours.
43.       Noise in section 5 of the highway is predicted to exceed allowable
limits.
44.       Atmospheric pollution from CO is expected to be within limits until
the year 2020. Level of NOx in the atmosphere are likewise predicted to be
acceptable until 2010. It is predicted that after these detes, traffic volume



- 131 -
Page 9
would cause these compounds to be present in concentrations above national
standards, unless management measures are taken to control them.
45.       There is likely to be some runoff from bitumen sealed road surfaces.
This runoff may contain short-chain hydrocarbons and oil that may be trouble-
some to farmlands and fish ponds. Drainage is to be designed to avoid this
problem.
46.       Ground vibrations caused by vehicle movement is not predicted to be
a problem, although models suggest that vibration standards may be exceeded
10 m beyond the road sides after the year 2010.
47.       Traffic along public roads could become congested if used as access
into the ROW. Traffic analysis indicated that the following sections of pub-
lic roads are likely to become congested during construction of the highways
(a)  Baihua to Huangmaoling Section of the Longgang to Huidong Highway
within Huidong County;
(b) The Houmen to Heilong Town Section of the Guangzhou to Shantou High-
way within Haifeng County;
(c) The Danshui to Shatian Section of the Longgang to Huidong Highway
within Buiyang County; and
(d) The Gangwie to Houmen Section of the Guang-Shan Highway within
Haifeng.
48.       The highway is not likely to impact wetland areas.  This has been
verified by experts from the Zhongsehan University and South China Research
Institute of Rare Animals. The highway design contains sufficient drainage
structures to avoid rise or fall of surface vater levels In wetland areas.
The main habitats along the highway are located at, or near, river mouths, the
gulf and the Gongping Reservoir in Lianhua mountains. All are far from the
highway ROW.
Environmental Management Planning
49.       Hvdroloav and Water Qualitv.  The design of the highway would allow
unhindered passage of a 1 in 100 year return flood, with major bridges being
designed to pass 1 in 300 year return floods (local flood prevention stan-
dard). Contractors are to construct and satisfactorily maintain septic tanks
for offices, temporary accommodation and other sites containing ablution
facilities. Storage (especially fuels), warehouses, laydown areas are to be
sited away from surface waters and provided with ring drains and soak pits to
prevent accidental spills from reaching surface waters.
50.       During construction ci road drainage works, the Contractor shall
construct temporary bypasses to facilitate continued use of irrigation chan-
nels and drainage.



- 132 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10
51.       Route Location.  The route was selected from analysis of five alter-
natives. The basis for route selection of the chosen alternative route was on
economic and technical grounds, including environmental considerations.
Established criteria in route selection included:
(a) Minimize the area of good quality agricultural land needed for the
subproject;
(b) Circumvent all archeological sites;
(c) Avoid cities, towns and large residential areas;
(d) Avoid, as much as possible, engineering problems such as soft soils
and steep topography that carry environmental burdens;
(e, Shall avoid isolation of communities or communities from farmland.
52.       Cultural/Archaeological Issues.  It is GOC law that any cultural
relics discovered in a construction site must be removed by the Provincial
Cultural Relics Research Institute before construction can recommence. This
is reinforced by the requirement for Contractors to adhere to clause 27.1 of
The Conditions for Works of Civil Engineering Construction of FIDIC (which is
included in the Contractor Tender). There are no known sites of cultural or
archeological importance within the ROW of the highway.
53.       Social Issues.  A total of 185 underpasses are provided within proj-
ect design for local passage of vehicles and pedestrians.
54.       Air gualitv Issues. Asphalt mixing plants are to be located at
least 1,000 m from areas of human habitation and congregation.  Earthvorks and
exposed soils are to be watered at least twice daily during dry weather, up to
a maximum of 4 times daily, at the discretion of the Joint Supervision Team to
control dust.
55.       Noise Issues.  A strip 50 m wide along each side of the ROW would be
reserved as a buffer zone and planted with trees to minimize operational noise
levels along the highway. Where identified as necessary, this would be aug-
mented by additional vegetation belts and physical sound barriers. The tender
would include 820 m of physical sound barrier construction (Table 7). Con-
struction activities in residential areas are to be restricted to between 6
a.m. and 10 p.m., at the discretion of the Joint Supervision Team.
56.       Traffic Issues.  Management of traffic would be by combined traffic
maety and control teams, which shall consist of the county traffic adminis-
cration and town government. During construction, traffic control personnel
shall be sent to the identified trouble spots by the county traffic adminis-
tration and the Contvactor, and these persons would be in charge of traffic
contrLl in these areas. Management measures would includes
(a) Limit the number of temporary intersections;
(b) Placo warning signs indicating locations of temporary intersections;



- 132- -@B_3
Page 11
(c) Contractors and county traffic administration office to assign staff
to control traffic at congasted intersectional
(d) County traffic administration offices to supervise traffic control
personnel;
(e) Contractors would be directed to limit vehicle activity during iden-
tified peak traffic periods;
(f) Vehicle parking and street vender control to be exercised in traffic
sensitive areas; and
(g) Where necessary, construct temporary access roads to avoid identi-
fied traffic-seneitive sections on public roads.
57.       Miscellaneous Management Actions.  All borrow and quarry sites to be
used during construction of the highway have been surveyed by the Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau. A list of the areas that can be exploited for
highway construction in an environmentally acceptable way has been prepared
and would be attached to construction tender documents. The tender would
specify that only material from environmentally acceptable quarries can be
used. New quarries and borrow pits specifically opened by the successful
contractors are to be located in uncultivatable land and barren hills, and
rehabilitated after use.
58.       If the Contractor uses existing Provincial and rural roads as access
into the construction site, the Contractor shall maintain the road and manage
traffic on it. Costs of temporary roads, or maintenance of existing public
roads and traffic management should be in costs of perennial engineering
works, and cannot be measured separately, except for those that are specifi-
cally mentioned in the Bill of Quantity of Works.
59.       Transport of dangerous goods along the highway must first be
approved by the public security, fire protection and traffic departments. An
emergency team would be established. The head of this team shall be the GPFC,
and the Deputy Head from the GPEPB. Members of the team wouzld be drawn from
the Envirormental Surveillance Centers, the Fire Brigade, and Departments of
Chemical Industry and Sanitation. A contingency plan for handling hazardous
materials accidents has been prepared by the GPFC.
60.       Table 8 presents a summary of environmental management measures
required, along with the organization responsible for implementing or monitor-
ing effectiveness of the management measure. Where the management measure
deals specifically with construction and the construction contractor, the
relevant clause in the construction tender document(s) is also listed.
Table 9 is a summary list of investment proposed for environmental protection.



- 134 -
ANX  3
Page 12
D. Environmental Monitorint of the Foshan-KaIsina
and Lonxg&aa-TanZi H-itahwas
61.       The importance of controlling environmental impacts during construc-
tion and operation haa led the GPFC to establish an in-house environmental
unit (GPFCEU) with branch environmental protection departments (EPD) for each
of the two major highway subprojects. The GPFCEU serves an administrative,
quality control, and management liaison role. The two EPDs are responsible
for direct environmental monitoring and management. Four technical staff have
already been acquired for the central, Guangzhou based, GPFCEU. The two EPDs
would each have 10 technical staff. The environmental monitoring activities
of the GPFC are designed to support and provide information that would improve
the ability of the Joint Supervision Team to control construction of the high-
vayg and to ensure that the highways operate in an environmentally acceptable
manner. The general objectives of the GPFCEU aret
(a) To ensure that environmental laws and regulations of the PRC are
followed during construction and operation of the highways;
(b) To improve onvironmental protection activities of the GPFC;
(c) To conduct daily environmental monitoring along the highway align-
ment to assist the Joint Supervision Team with proper management of
construction, and especially to avoid disturbance that may result
from constructionl
(d) To ensure that social benefits are taken into consideration during
construction and operation;
(e) To control and clean-up any hazardous materials transportation or
accidental spills along the highway; and
(f) To Improve aesthetic aspects of the highways.
62.       Monitoring of construction activities within section 4 of the
Longgang to Tanxi highway (which would be subject to advance contracting and
be retroactively financed) would require interim environmental monitoring
measures to be taken, as training, institutional strengthening and equipment
to be provided under the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project would not be
available when construction starts on this section. The GPFC therefore
intends to contract the various county, and as needed, prefecture Environ-
mental Protection Bureau (EPB) to supply monitoring services until such time
as the EPDs can be established. The staff and equipment contracted from the
local EPBs would come under the control and direction of the GPFCEU.
63.       Suwmary Table 10 is a provisional list of monitoring equipment to be
provided under the loan. A diagram of the structural organization of the
GPFCEU, and lines of authority for environmental monitoring of the two high-
ways is presented In Chart 3.



- 135 -
ANNE]! 3
Page 13
S. Znvironment_l Asseosment of the Road ImDrovement Program
64.       The RIP would Involve Bank financing of provincial road improvement
projects which would not be Identified or prepared before the Guangdong Pro-
vincial Highway project is brought to the Bank's Board for review.  This pro-
gramiatic approach to the provincial road component of the project requires
that an environmental assessment process be developed to ensure that subproj-
ects submitted to the Bank for funding under the loan include adequate consid-
eration of possible subproject impact on the environment.
65.       The RIP component of the project would therefore require the prepa-
ration of a RA. This BRA would:
(a)  Present a screening process designed to identify subprojects having
potentially significant issues that would need to be addressed in a
subproject specific EA from those that would be unlikely to have
significant Impact on the environment;
(b) Present a general assessment of the kinds of impacts that might be
associated with the different types (road widening, pavement
improvements traffic bottleneck alleviation, etc.) of rural road
subprojects; and
(c)  Develop a SLAP detailing actions that would be implemented to elimi-
nate, minimize to acceptable levels or mitigate the minor impacts
identified in the SEA.
66.       The objective of the environmental screening in the SEA would be to
separate the RIP subprojects into one of two categories:
Cateagorv One: Subprojects that only include improvement and/or rehabili-
tation of roads within an existing ROW, minor realignment that might be
needed for localized improvement of a traffic "bottleneck", and those not
within or affecting environmentally sensitive areas I.e.* subprojects
with no potentially significant environmental impact;
Categorv Twot Subprojects that require substantial widening and/or
acquisition of new ROW. This would primarily include roads on new align-
ments (especially new penetration roads) and, in general, subnrolects
with gotentiall adverse imnact on environmentally sensitive 2/ areas.
V/ An environmentally sensitive area would include zones of significant
human habitation (urbanized areas, residential concentrations, hospitals,
schools, commer&ial and market complexes), ecologically important zones
such as wetlands, forests, or any area relatively unaltered by humans
(i.e., an area that Is dtecribed by the GOC National/Provincial Environ-
mental Protection Bureau as being in a unatural" state), archeologi-
cal\historic\cultural sitest and terrain with slope greater than 50 per-
cent--especially when soils are erodible and near surface waters.
I I



- 136 -
ANNEX 3
Page 14
67.       All subprojects would have an EAP attached as one of the preparation
sections describing the project. Por category one subprojects, the elements
of the RAP would be drawn directly from the SEAP, and not prepared on a sub-
project specific basis. Category two subprojects would require a complete EA
and a detailed subproject-specific EAP.
68.       The generic SEA is possible for the majority of subprojects within
the RIP because the subproject types proposed are simple, with few and easily
identifiable impacts. Most impacts that may result from a subproject would
therefore be relatively easy to identify and remedy. However, where a new ROW
is required, or when a subproject is to be implemented within an environmen-
tally sensitive area, a subproject specific EA with detailed EAP would be
required. Preparation of the SEA/SEAP would be a collaborative effort between
the Guangdong Provincial Highway Design Institute and the Guangdong Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau. The Design Institute would provide details
regarding specific project activities within each type of rural road subproj-
ect to be included in the RIP, and the Environmental Research Institute would
identify the likely impacts expected from each of these individual activities.
The SEA/SEAP is to be sent to the Bank for review at least one month before
loan negotiations. Disbursement on anv subgroiect in the RIP would be depen-
dent on Bank review of the EA and EAP.
69.       The responsibility for preparing and implementing the SEA and its
guidelines rests with GPHAB.
70.       RIP Environmental Monitoring.  Since national and provincial and
rural roads supported by the RIP are under the control and direction of the
GPHAB, an environmental monitoring program that is separate from that proposed
for the two highways would be needed. The Province therefore intends to con-
tract staff and lease equipment from local (county and prefectural) Environ-
mental Protection Bureaus in which RIP subprojects are to be implemented. The
contracted EPB staff would supply environmental monitoring services for RIP
subproject construction and operation.
71.       These contracted staff would come under the administrative authority
and control of a dedicated coordinator within the Prefectural-level RIP super-
vision office of the GPHAB. Prefectural environmental coordinators would, in
turn, report to a dedicated environmental coordinator in the provincial super-
vision office of the RIP program. The contracted EPB staff would effectively
transfer to the GPHAB for the length of the contract and become part of the
supervision organization. They would undertake an environmental monitoring
program designed to determine if environmental management actions are effec-
tive and if any environmental changes in the areas around RIP subprojects are
attributable to unexpected road impacts. The information from this monitoring
program, along with any needed recommendations, would be regularly transmitted
tot he supervising engineer so that appropriate actions could be taken. The
local Environmental Protection Bureaus, themselves, are responsible for moni-
toring of the RIP.
72.       Because an outside organization would be contracted to supply per-
sonnel and equipment to the supervision organization of the GPHAB, the Bank
would review the terms of reference, draft contracts and written indications



- 137 -
ANRM 3
Page 15
from county and Prefectural Environmental Protection Bureaus involved that
they are willing to enter into agreement with the GPHAB to supply the speci-
fied services.
F. EZnvioWmental Training
73.       Approximately 1.5 person months has been allocated for environmental
training. This would include awareness training for administrators directly
and indirectly (i  e., those leading environmental groups and groups affected
by results of monitoring--including supervision groups and design organiza-
tions) responsible for environmental monitoring organizations to be formed
within the GPVC and GPHAB, and staff that might be temporarily seconded to do
environmental work (such as staff from the Supervision Department# and the
Highway Scientific Research Institute).



- 138 -
gMR 3
Page 16
Zskl. Li ATMOSPHERIC QUALITY STAIDARDS (GB 3095-82;
Petching
Pollutant           time                Class I       Class II      Class III
(St.)         (at.)         (at.)
SPH               Daily average           0.15           0.30         0.50
Any time               0.30           1.00         1.50
TSP               Daily average           0.05           0.15         0.25
Any time               0.15           0.50         0.70
$02               Annual daily avg.       0.02           0.06         0.10
Daily                  0.05           0.15         0.25
Avg. any time          0.15           0.50         0.70
NO.               Daily average           0.05           0.10         0.15
Any time               0.10           0.15         0.30
CO                Hourly average          4.00           4.00         6.00
10.00         10.00        20.00
03                                        0.12           0.16         0.20



- 139 -
Pae 17
Mla*. 2.   AMBIENT NOISE STANDARDS FOR URBN AREAS (GB 3096-82)
(unitt Leq (dB)]
Area Applied                         Daytime  Night        Remarks
Special residential                     45     35    Designated as quiet
Rebdential and                          50     40    Purely Residential
educational quarters                                Educational and
Institutional Areas
Category I mixed area                   55     45    Ordinary Mixed Residential
with Commercial Areas
Downton, Category II mixed area         60     50    Concentrated Commercial,
and Mixed Industrial and
Residential Areas
Concentrated Industrial area            70     55
Both sides of traffic arteries          65     55    Traffic :' 100 veh/h
7ila.. 3: CLASSIFICATION OF WATER QUALITY
Classification       lot Class   2nd Class   3rd Class   4th Class   5th Class
Composite Index          <0.25    0.25-0.5    0.5.0.75    0.75-2.0       2.0-3.0
I ~ ~ ~   ~  .    ..



- 140 -
ANX 3
Page 18
Table 4: LOCATION AND LENGTH OF PHYSICAL SOUND BARRIERS REQUIRED FOR THE
FOSHAN-KAIPING HIGHWAY
No.    Location                        Start/End          Length    Remarks
(m)
1.  Lianxin Area                   kO+300 to kO+480       180    lft of rd
2.  Lianxin Viaduct                kO+480 to kO+630       100    lftlrt of road
3.  Liazxing Viaduct               kO+750 to kO+850       200    Ift/rt of road
4.  Zhangeha Viaduct               k5+900 to k6+180       680   lIft/rt of road
5.  Xin Village                    k6+490 to k6+540        50    rt of rd
6.  Hefen Village                  k12+390 to k12+450    120    lft/rt of road
7.  Beijiang Extra Large Bridge   k18+450 to k18+520       70    lft of rd
8.  Lanxin Village                 k19+250 to k19+420    340    lft/rt of road
9.  Nanjing School                 k48+715 to k48+880    165    lft of rd
10.  Tonvu Village                  k53+625 to k53+725    100    lft of rd
11.  Zhangwu Village                k53+640 to k53+780    140    rt of rd
12.  Juyuan Village                 k57+050 to k57+150    245    lft/rt of road
13.  Yongfen Village                k60+220 to k60+300      80   lIft of rd
14.  Zintianli Village              k61+150 to k61+220      70    lft of rd
15.  Tangchenzu                     k75+140 to k75+260    120    lft of rd
16.  Hexi Village                   k77+240 to k77+300      60    lft of rd
17.  Qiaognag Village               k78+020 to k78+080      60    lft of rd
18.  Dongbian Village               k79+935 to k80+065    130    lft of rd
Total                                               2.910



- 141 -
Page 19
Table As SUHMARY O THE MAIN ELEMENTS OF TEE ENVIRONMENTAL ACT`OR PLAN FOR
THE FOSHAN TO KAIPINC HIGHWAY
Enviroamental                           Required                        Responsible
Issue                                   action                             entity          Remarks
A. Preconstruction
& De lrn Phaee
1. Route Selection        Alignment selected from                   OEDI, GPEPB
6 alternatives, land
acquisition and Impact on
residential areas has been
reduced as much as possible,
historic sites avoided
2.  Impact on             98 underpasses for vehicle,                   GHDI
mobility             tractor and pedestrian, and
adequate access to the
expressway within design
3.  Excessive noise       A 60-m strip on both sides of                 CBDI
impact and air       the ROW is reserved as a buffer
pollution on          zone and planted with trees,
residents            noise barriers have been designed
and will be constructed at noise
sensitive areas
4.  Risk of flooding      Bridges, culverts,roadside drainage           CUDI
systems have been designed to
elimlnat& or minimize risk
Clause
In
tender
B. Construction Phase
1.  Air pollution         (a)  Materials will either be stored  Contractor, thru       102.13
with a cover over It, or sprin-        the JST
kledwith water periodically
(b)  Bitumen mixing plants will be                           305.05
located at least 1,000 m away
from residential areas
2.  Noise pollution       (a)  Construction activities, which   Contractor, thru       102.13
result In excessive noise, will        the JST
be carried out In daylight hours
only (10 p.m. to 6 a.m.)
(b)  Unnecessary noise from hauling,                         102.13/
blasting and construction will be                       102.14
minimized
3.  Water pollution       (a)  storage for lIlme and cement will Contractor, thiu      102.13
be away from rivers and water          the JT8
courses
(b)  Temporary drainage for exca-      Contractor, thru      201.OS
vation and filling will be             the JST
provided and maintained



- 142 -
Page 20
Environmental                           Requirnd                       Responsible
issue                                   action                            entity          Remarks
4.  Traffic               (a)  A plan for traffic control will  Contractor, thru    102.16
Managsent                 be made, roads for access to con-      the J8T
stmuction sites will be increased
to reduce congestion, and traffic
flow at peak hours will be reduced
(b) Material haulage will be controlled                     102.13/
to reduce spillage and duet                            102.16
S.  Quarry Operation      (a)  Quarry to be located away from   Contractor, thru      102.14
residential area                      the J8T
(b)  Safety zones wil  be established                       202.0S
and guarded
(c)  Explosive materil storage wil                          202.05
comply with safety regulAtions
6. Waste Disposal        Solid wvte will be appropriately        Contractor, thru     104.01
disposed, human vaste iull be              the J3T
treated and discharged
C. I9Elo1LUB
7* Construction          (a)  Air quality monitorlng for NOx,   Employer thri
Phs4e                     00, TSP, Pb, TSC, KEC.                 the JST
Nonitorlng points at h4, k9, US,
k19, & k30
(b) Surface water monitoring for p8,
3OD(5), COD, 88, Pb, oil.
Monitoring points at h4, h9, & k2h
(c) Noise monitoring at khI, ho, h13
& l30
8. Operation              (a) Monitor air, surface water, noSe,
vibration, lead content in soil
and crops
(b)  Traffic an  accldent monitoring    OPEC thiu Its
envirmsntal
unit
notes  1. ¢0E1   - Guangdong Otghway Design Institute
2. GPEC - Guangdong Pravince Freeway Company
3. 011s  - Guangdong Provlnce  nvirounental Protection Bureau



- 143 -
A-LX 3
Page 21
Table 63 ESTIMATED INVESTHENT FOR ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION OF THE
FOSHAN-RAIPING HIGHWAY
Item                                       Unit.              Cost (Y * 10,000)
Physical notee barriers               2,910m/18 places             984.9
Planting of trees                       36,039 traes                78.2
Planting of brush/shrubs                 126,000 o2                 75.6
Paving tufts                            1,041,300 .2               364.5
Total                                                       1.503.2
Table 7s LOCATION AND LENGTH Q' PHYSICAL SOUND BARRIERS RRQUIRED FOR THE
LONGGANG-TANKI HIGHWAY
No.    Location               Start/end              Length        Remarks
1. Xinjian Village          k117-010 to +128          118       Right of route
2.  Xincun Primary School   k134-060 to +156           96       Left of route
3.  Qiao tou Village        k139-380 to +620          240       Lefc of route
4.  Bian Village            k140-226 to +378          152       Left of route
5. Tian Zin Town            k166-750 to +964          214       Right of route
Ttal 1ent4 2h



- 144 -
AJgNNE 3
Page 22
Table Ags SUHARY OF TEE MARUN LHEN8S O liE ENYVIROMENTAL ACTION PLAN FOR TOE
LONOGANG-TAN  IIIGY
Eavizoimental                         Required                    Responsible
Lsaue                                action                        entiy                Remarks
A. Preselection & DeslQn Phase
1. Route           Route selected from 5 alternatives            USDI 1
selectlon       to minimize land   acquisition,              GP5PEC
'orticularly the land of good agri-          BRIHOC
Miltural quality and residential
areas. Not to pass thru
water sources.
2.  lmpact on       185 underpasses provided for the             BSD1 I
moblity         local passage of vehicles and
pedestrias across the expressway.
3.  Impact on       A strip 50 meter.' wide along each           USDI 1
inhabitants    side of the ROW reserved as a buffer
by exces-      zone and planted with trees.
sive noise
air poll.
Removal of some houses and providing
adequate noise barriers to reduce
noise and air pollution to reasonable
(GOC standards) levels.
4. Protection        Special engineering measures taken to        ESDI 1
for shrlmp      prevent shrimp ponds from being pol-
ponds            luted from runoff from pavement, alJ
to ensure freoh water is availabla to
recharge water In shrimp ponds.
Clause
i tender
B. COnSruction Phase
1. Air              (a) Stockpiled building material          Contractor,         102.13
pollutlon            stored with cover (cement and      GPEPEC thru 1ST       301.02
Lime) and located at specified
areae or regularly watered
(earthworks)
(b)  Trucks hauling looso material to     Contractor,         102.13
be sealed to prevent spillage      GPEPSC thu J8T
(c) Asphalt plants to be located at       Contractor,         305.05
least 1,000 m from residential     GPEPEC thru 1ST
areas
2.  Nolse           (a) Construction activities gensrat-      Contractor,         102.13
pollution           Ing excessive noise to be con-      GPEPEC thru JST
fined to day-light hours
(1Opm to 6am)
(b) Unnecessary noise from hauling,        Contractor,        102.03
blasting and construction to be    GPEPZC thru JST
minimized
3.  Water           Temporary drainage for cut and fill       Contractor,         001.05
pollutLon      to be provlded and regularly             OPEPEC thru JST
maintaLned



- 145 -                                        MX  3
Page 23
Environmental                          Required                     Responsible
issue                                 action                         entiy                Remarks
4.  Traffic         (a) The network of access roads for         Contractor,         102.16
control              construction traffic to be           GPEPEC thru JST
(control &          Increased to reduce congestion
mitigation of        and traffic to be controlled to
traffic con-         lover peak hour traffic
gestion
noise & air    (b) Material haulage to be controlled    Contractor,             102.16
pollution            to reduce spillage ard dust          GPEPEC thru JST
5.  Quarry          (a) Quarry to be located far from           Contractor,         102.13/
operation            populated areas                      GPEPEC thru JST       301.04
(b) Safety zone to be defined and          Contractor,         202.05
safeguarded                         GPEPEC thru JST
(c) Explosive material storage to          Contractor,         202 05
comply with security regulations   GPEPEC thru JST
6.  Dierisal of    Solid waste to be appropriately              Contractor,
solid and       dioposed, human waste to be treated      GPEPEC thru JST
human           and discharged
vaste
C. Monitorina
7.  Construction    (a) Ensure that noise levels 70 m              GPEPEC
Phase                form the expressway do not exceed    thru the JST
55 db
(b) Regularly monitoring of dust-
fall along the work sites in pas-
sive dust collectors and ensure
that measures are taken, thru the
JST, In case of excess dust-fall
(c) Monitor CO, NOx, TSP, other water
quallty parameters, noise and
vibration
8.  Operational    Monitor CO, NOx, TSP, other water qual-  GPEPEC thru
Phase           ity parameters, noise and vibration, and    the JST
ozone and hydrocarbons on a seasonable
and diurnal basis (long-term monitoring)
Notes  1. GPEPEC - Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Exmination Center
2. CSDI I - No. I Highway Survey and Design Institute of the Ministry of Communications
3   HRIMOC - Highway Research Institute of the Ministry of Communications
4. JST    -  Joint Supervision Team



- 146 -                              ANX 3
Page 24
ZIBla L2  ESTIMATED INVESTMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION OF THE
LONGGANG-TANXI HIGHWAY
Item                   Description             Quantity        Unit       Coat
(y*10')
Tree planting     Outside to slope of
subgrade                    120,175 ea    Y 15 ea       180.30
Grass             Side slope planting       1,461,110 m2      Y 2/rn      292.22
Sound barrier     (see Table 4)
Forest belt       4m wide for the road
section near villages        35,724 m2     Y 4/r2        14.29
Monitoring
equipment       (see Table 10)



147 -
Page 25
Tau      10 m9N   f1L ummo   MUIW    T0
AM LAs00A3-TM UGMxS
Ouaentitv
Io.  Name o  equmt                                iecimoe1 epeci"iitiu   Unt   fetoal  IMUOn-  Poeban-    Uit               Total
TM       Kipin       pi        prics
ms"   8kwy   0O    (
1    mcphie -WUampl   eqipment                                           set        20          10        10       160    3,200
2   LIph   ptnm photometor                                               St          2           1         1       6so    1,300
3    uirered analyss e        t                                          St          2           1               3,700    7,400
4   xftlhvolne Top e i                                                   got        20          1     0            070   19,400
S   Gee cbrmetograph epectrmter                                          Set         2           1         1   16,100    ",G60o
6   Atom  abeorptics equtipme                                            Set         2           1         1    9,100    18,600
7   Soud lwel pbotmeter (Sad.
vibratio  euipnt)                          De.ezt mg Co.             set         a           I         1   11,200   2a.400
*   Automttic saromental ML"
measuremeut equipmet                       Semerk us Co.             set         2           1         1   17,000   34,000
9   Ultraviolet roy epectnm photmeter                                    Set         2           1         1    2,200    4.400
10   Se"l, culture Io, ealysi  ecale, ate.                                Packag      1         0.5       0.5    7,600    7.600
11   Data proceeeie cmuter and pererel            U-type boat computer
et          2           1        1    13,000   30,000
12   Sezrvi  veble                              Yessin  c  type           Set         2           I         1   37,000   74,000
1   nottin  survellance ve le                                            set         2           1         I   56,000  112,000
ubetotal



- 148 -
Lag. 1
CHINA
GUAMGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Resettlement Action Plans
A.  Foshan-Kaivin  Hia_hwav
1.        Route Location and Imnact.  The expressway from Foshan to Kaiping
extends for 80 km; the first four kilometers are densely populated. The high-
way passes through Nanhai, Shunde, Xinghui county and the two cities of Foshan
and Jiangmen. A total of 7,646.31 mu (509.75 ha) would be permanently
acquired for the project, and 1,791.23 mu (119.42 ha) would be acquired for
temporary use. Most of the land is cultivated or has an economic use. A
total of 8,040 people would be affected by the project; those affected by
temporary land acquisition number 1,099. Of the 6,941 people affected by
permanent land acquisition, 65 percent are economically active. Most of the
people affected by land acquisition, 70 percent, would be moved from agricul-
ture to township enterprises, with 19 percent remaining in agriculture. About
183 households would be affected by the acquisition of their houses, for which
they would be compensated and provided with replacement land.
2.        Policy Basis of Land Acauisition and Resettlement.  The province
follows the Land Administration Law of PRC and its own regulations for land
acquisition and resettlement. However, for initiating action on land
acquisition and resettlement for major highway projects, the provinces
involved are required to obtain the SPC's approval of the feasibility study
recommendations and MOC's approval of the preliminary engineering design.
Approval has to be sought from The National Land Administration Bureau if over
1,000 mu of agricultural land are being acquired.
3.        Comnensation.  Based on the above, compensation provisions are
applied to both the expressway project and the provincial and rural roads
projects.
Land Comnenssation
*    Paddy fields  Compensation is four times the average annual output
value in the past three years before land acquisition.
•    Dry land, vegetable land, fish pond and orchards (including mulberry
field and tea plantation). These are compensated at three times the
average annual output value of the past three years before land
acquisition.
*    Young orchard (fruit trees which have not borne any fruits):  These
are compensated at twice the average annual output value in the past
three years before land acquisition.



-149 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 2
*    Forest landt If the canopy density is more than 30 percent, it
shall be compensated at eight times the average annual output value
and if the canopy density is lower than 30 percent for odd trees,
the compensation is five times the average annual output value of
similar forests in the area.
*    Waste Lands  No compensation for waste land.
Cro, Cognensation
The crops will be compensated according to the output value of one
batch.  The perennial orchard, tea and mulberry trees shall be com-
pensated according to the output of one year. Artificial forest and
odd tree lands will be compensated according to the actual value and
no compensation shall be made for nonprofit land.
Resettlement Subsidy
*    For cultivated land acquisition (including paddy field dry land,
fish ponds and orchards), the resettlement subsidy for each person
shall be twice the average annual output value per mu in the past
three years.
-    For forest land acquisition, the resettlement subsidy for each per-
son shall be five times the average annual output value per mu.
*    No compensation will be given for land with odd trees, wasteland and
land without profit.
4.        Land compensation fees and resettlement subsidies are paid to
county, township or village governments and used collectively. Enterprises
that absorb surplus labor are entitled to resettlement subsidies to meet the
cost of taking on new labor. The compensation fees are used to develop the
villages and may be spent on land reclamation, road development, pump wells
and establishing new village or tonnship enterprises. The local village
committees are expected to submit a plan for using the compensation monies to
the township governments.
5.        Compensation for personal belongings is calculated according to
local regulations and meets the costs of replacing lost houses, trees, tombs,
and wells. Land for reconstructing houses is provided within the same
village, and individual owners are responsible for replacing houses.
6.        Compensation is also paid for removal and replacement of power and
transmission lines. The managing units are responsible for replacement.



- 150 -
AMN[ 4
Page 3
7.        The following unit prices had been used for estimating the costs of
compensations
Item                                             Unit                Unit price
(yuan)
H.. ;
Wooden, tiled roof                                me                      90
Brick or stone vail, tiled roof                   Ms                     120
Reinforced cement structure                       Oa                     180
Frame structure                                   m                      200
Other §ulddings
Enclosing wvll and simple shed                    Ms                      30
Threshing ground                                  m!                      20
Earth grave                                       each                    60
Brick or cement gravs                             each                    90
Cinerary urns                                     each                    30
8.        The Guangdong Provincial Highway Design Institute (OPUDI) is respon-
sible for preparing the resettlement action plan (RAP) In consultation with
the relevont local officials. The Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPFC)
has overall responsibility for resettlement, implementation and monitoring,
and meots the costs of compensation. The total compensation cost is estimated
at Y 145.16 million.
9.        Resgettlgent Orxanizational Arrangomnts. The detailed organiza-
tional arrangments for resettlement activities are as follows:
(a) Provincial Level. The Guangdong Provincial Foshan-Raiping Ezpress-
way Construction Directorate Office is in overall charge. The
Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPIC) approves the resettle-
ment plans, oversees land acquisition and demolition of structures,
and pays out compensation costs. Two to three staff members are
assigned to this task.
(b)  CitL  ove!    City level resettlement offices are set up with three
to five staff members. The city level officers york with the land
management departments to implement land acquisition and resettle-
ment In the cities and districts.



- 151 -
ARM&X 4
Page 4
(c)  Countv Level.  County level resdttlement departments have five to
seven staff members and are responsible for organizing subordinate
township end village governments to undertake activities related to
land acquisition and resettlement.
(d) Townshl2 Level. The township level departments are staffed with
three to five staff members drawn from the offices of the townships'
People's Governments. The local People's Governments are responsi-
ble for supervising recettlement through the State Land Bureau.
10.       Survey of the Right-of-Way.  The survey of the ROW is complete.
Initial preparations for land acquisition are completed and the Freeway
Company has consulted with the relevant township officials.
II.       Contracts.  The land acquisition and resettlement contracts were
signed between GPFC and the relevant governments at city and county levels.
12.       Comiletion of ROW Acouisition and Resettlement. Acquisition of
land, payment of compensation and demolition of houses and resettlement would
be completed by GPFC during the period August 15, 1992 end January 31, 1993.
13.       Monitoring.  GPFC is in overall charge of monitoring resettlement
and has established a monitoring office with A staff of six. Two social sci-
entists, from Zhongshan University and from Guangdong Provincial Social Scien-
tific Institute will assist the monitoring team. A monitoring report would be
submitted by December 31, 1993 followed by annual reports in the next two
years.
B. LonRganx-Tanxi githwav
14.       Route Location and Imnact.  The Longgang-Tanzi Highway is 146 km in
length and passes through 6 counties and 17 towns. A RAP for the highway was
prepared by the GPFC. The project would acquire 11,489 mu (765.93 ha) of land
permanently and 2,231 mu (148.73 ha) of land temporarily (39-48 months). Due
to permanent land acquisition, 7,760 people would be affected; 54 percent are
economically active. In addition, 980 people would be affected due to tempo-
rary land acquisition; 55 percent are economically active. About 453 build-
ings would be affected by the project; 401 are privately owned and 58 are
publicly owned.
15.       Com2ensation Payments.  The policy applied for paying compensation
is the same as for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway. Under the regulations of the
national end provincial laws, the construction company is obliged to pay com-
pensation for land, crops, buildings, end other properties that are acquired.
Resettlement subsidies have to be paid to all those losing land and property.
16.       The management of resettlement, the distribution of replacement
lands and the absorption of surplus labor into township employment is the
responsibility of the respective local governments. Resettlement activities
would be completed before construction begins.
CoMenssation for Land: paddy--four times the average output value in the
three years before land acquisition.



- 152 -                              AEX 4
Page 5
Other landst vegetable, fruit, fish ponds--three times the annual aver-
age output value in the three years before land acquisition.
Youn& orchards--not bearing fruitt twice the average output value in the
three years before land acquisition.
Forest lands canopy density more than 30 percent--compensated eight
times the average annual output values. If the canopy density is lower
than 30 percent, compensation is five times the average annual output.
Resettlement subsidyt for cultivated land, for each person--twice the
average annual output value in the past three years per mu.
Forest cropes five times the average output value per mu.
Crop comnensation: crops would be compensated according to the value of
one batch.
Perennial fruit trees: compensated according to the output value for one
year. Other trees would be compensated for according to their individual
values.
Comnensation for houses:
*    wooden and tile roof--Y 90 per in
*    brick, stone wall and tiled roof--Y 120 per ma.
*    Cement house--Y 180 per m2
*    Framed structure--Y 200 per mi
*    Enclosing wall, simple shed and other buildings--compensated accord-
ing to the actual condition, but not more than Y 30 per m2
*    Threshing ground--not more than Y 20 per mi
A total of Y 81,923,900 would be spent on compensation and resettlement.
Ormanization
17.       At the provincial level, a staff of 15 will be responsible for man-
aging resettlement activities. They will be assisted by city, county and
township resettlement offices with a staff of 3 to 6 in each office.
Monitoring
18.       Resettlement would be monitored under the direction of the Guangdong
Provincial Shenzhen-Shantou Expressway Construction Directorate (staffed with
6 people) with the assistance of local land bureaus and county and township
officers. Two sociologists will assist the monitoring team. A monitoring



- 153 -                                    4
PAsg 6
report will be submitted at the end of 1993, followed by annual reports In the
net two year.
19.       SyI_r *o. Land acquisition, population affected, and resettleomnt
for the Foshan-alp w aond Shenzhen-Shantou highway. are sumuarised In Tables
1 and 2 of this annex.



cam
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL BHGROWY PKOJECT
Land Acquisitlon, Population Affected, and Population to be Relocated,
due to Construction of the Foahan-Kalpins Highway
Land to be acquired         Population Affected              Resettlement
City      Couaty  Touwnhip    Pemanent  Temporary          &eon.   on-econ.
(mc)       (mu)         Active      Active       Total   Families  Population
Fosban    Nanhal   Luochsn         149.8       32.7          110         60         170          28         120
Sbbirn   anambi           8.9         2.0          17           9          26           0           0
Shivan  Zangebha        538.2        147.8        722         391       1,113          29         137
Eanbal  iEDsheang       808.8       441.3         700         383       1,083           6          35
Eanhal  Sbaton          405.8       243.7         442         239         681          24         122
Sund    LotanEtsg       624.8        196.0        569         263         832           3          20
Nanbal   JuijSang       370.1        214.0        297         157         454          80         384
Jianpsn  Hesbam  Sbapln            498.0        25.0        564         304         868           1           4
oehms  Tay.o           1,546.1       174.0       1,119        576       1,695           0           0
Heshba EHeheag          220.7        36.0          75          38         113           0           0
Beshan  Coombe         1,009.0       85.5         328         176         504           4          17                             C.
Xkibnu   Daxbe           99.5        25.0          23          16          39           0           0
linhut  Siqlan         1,048.6       107.3        821         418       1,239           8          48
Heshan   Zhbiban        318.1         61.0        199         123         322           0           0
Tatals for the Project             7,646       1,791      5,986       3,153       9,139         183         887
SCURC:MERUng _    PFravincLal Freeay CompanI



CUANDOEGPRVINCIAL HGWA  PROEC
LOd  Acquiition, Poplation Affected, and Population to be Relocated,
due to Construction of the Longgau-Taaui Highway
Land to be acquired        nouseholds and Populatio. Affected         Acquisition and Resettlemuent (M)
County   Tmbip    Peent  Teporary    No. of    Pop eco. Pop   -ec.                  Total       oes  Households Population
(uM)       (MM)    Households       Active      Active   Affec Pop   Acuired   Relocated    moved
Bsoan    Lofagge4        247.8        61.7         21          56          45         101           1           1           S
Isoan    Kengzi         465.5        208.6         27          74          59         133          30          12          60
"Y1an5g  qiucbang        110.2         0.0           4          12          9          21           1           1           6
Hulyang  Danhbul       1,053.1       760.9         123        482         395         877          45          21         105
HUiyAg  Shatian         690.5        20.0          53        152         123         275          28           8          42
HBidong  Wihom           917.2        30.0         87         254         209         463           9           2          12
Huidong Rensban        1,004.0       294.5         88         331         273         604           5           2           9
Buldong  JiMong          989.1       101.6          92        260         213         473          16           8          40
Balfeng Yuanfun          408.5       218.0          18         61          so         111           0           0           0
Haifeng  Epu             719.1         0.0          78        216         177         393           5           3          16
Haifeng  Houmen        1,090.7       107.3         255        730         596       1,326          53          19          94
Haifeng Nelbong         826.3         40.3         134        391         321         712          93          40         200
Shawel Esgong           354.0         18.8         154        460         378         838           9           6          28
Sbanvet Hongcao         957.3          8.5        229         635         520       1,155          85          51         255
Balfeng  Tsohe           525.5        14.7          30         98          82         180           8           5          40
Balfeng  Cblkeng         484.4        42.9          54        162         I33         295           7           9          11
Lufaeg   Tansi          645.9        302.9         135        430         353         783           6          27           9
Totals for the Proj     11,489      2,231        1,582      4,804       3,936       8,740         401         215         931
NOt An additional 806 population living in ptblic lstitutions or enterprises (mostly
schools) vould also be relocated due to partial building acquisition and replacement.
SOURCE: Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company
IF 1tz



- 156- -E
CHINA
GJANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJCT
Implementation Schedule
This annex presents the implementation schedule for the various
components of the project. Table I summarizes the overall implementation
schedule for the project as a whole. Table 2 shows the detailed implementa-
tion schedule for Contract Section No. 4 of the Longgang-Tanxi Highway to be
constr"cted by LCB; the remaining five contract sections of this Highway and
the four contract sections for the Foshan-Kaiping Highway to be constructed by
ICB; administration and maintenance buildings and service areas; and electri-
cal and mechanical works for both Highways. Table 3 depicts the detailed
implementation schedule for the supervision of construction of both Highways.
These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction activi-
ties as well as for preconstruction activities such as preparation of bid
documents, prequalification process, bidding process, evaluation of bids,
negotiations and signing of contracts.



-157 -
OUANGDONG PROVINCIL HIGWA  PROJECT
lmelementation Schedule
1992       1993      lJ94        1995       1996        1997       1998
1. loshan-Xaiping Highway
(a) ICB contracts
(Sactions It 2, 3 and 4)
(b)            -, -, 3 and
Installtion                                       . ....
(c) Service and administration
facilities                                                                 -
2. Longgang-TSa   Highway
(a) ICB coitracta
(Sections 1, 2, 3, S, 6)
(b) LCB contract
(Section go. 4)
(c) EHI supply and
iustaiUationm
(c) Service and administration
facilities                                                      --
3. Road Improvemnt Program
4. Road Safety Pilot Progran
Sunervision of Conotruction
1.  osbhan-KUlpng end Longgang-
Tanzi Highway
2. Road Improvemeat Program
Procurement of airmarmnt
1. Foshan-Kaping and Loeggang-
Tanci Highways
(a) Supervisionllaboratories
and envronmaental
(b) Operation and maintenance                                                    -        -
2* Provancial and rural roads
(a) SupervIsionIRDB/PMS/Safety
(b) Road Maienncenes
TrUij,ITec'nical Assistance
1. General trainng-
2. Supervision tralan in===
3. Highway financing technical
Lageod:            Prsqualification/Preparation of Bidding Documents/TOR
Bidding Process/Competition along Consultants
ConstructionlSupervision/Dellvery
-         Training



- 158 -
AM S
Page 1
-GUANGDON¢ PROVINCIAL RIGWAY PROJECT
Implementation Program for Construetion of the Foshan-aiuina and
LonWnSgWg-Tami Highbas
I.   Civll Works-
A. Longlanx-Tanxi Hi&h_av. Contract Section 14 (LCB)
Bank's no objection to prequalification document   Aprl 30, 1992
Last date to receive PQ documents                    May 31, 1992
PQ documonts evaluation report and HOC review        June 10, 1992
Bank review and no objection of PQ evaluation      June 13-30, 1992
Complete bid documents                               June 15, 1992
Bank review and no objection to bid document.        June 30, 1992
Sell bidding documents to prequalified
contractors                                        July 1, 1992
Last date to recoive bid documents                   Aug. 15, 1992
lid evaluation report and Government review          Aug. 25, 1992
lank review bid evaluation report and no
objaction                                          Sept 15, 1992
Negotiate and sign contract                         Sept. 30, 1992
Start construction                                   Nov. 1, 1992
Complete construction                               March 31, 1997
B.  Lomaanat-Tanxi RigbhMa. Contract Sections No.s  1-3 and 5-6.
and Foshan-Kaoning Highwav. Contracts No.. 1-4 (ICB)
Bank's review end no objection to PQ documents      April 30, 1992
Last date to receive PQ documents                    July 2, 21992
Complete bid documents                               Aug. 15, 1992
PQ documents evaluation report and HOC review       July 3-31, 1992
Bank review and no objection to PQ evaluation
report                                            Aug. 1-31, 1992
Bank rview and no objection to bid
documents                                    Aug. 15 - Sept. 15, 1992
Notify prequalified contractors                      Sept. 5, 1992
Last date to receive bid documents                   Dec. 15, 1992
Blid evaluation report and government
review                                    Dec. 169 1992 - Jan. 31, 1993
Bank review bid evaluation report and
no objection                                     Feb. 1-28, 1993
Notify successful bidders                            March 1, 1993
Negotiate and sign contracts L/                     March 3-31, 1993
Start construction                                    may 1, 1993
Complete construction
losh.n-Kaiplng Contract Nos. 1, 3 and 4           Sept. 30, 1993
Poshan-Kaping Contract No. 2                       Dec. 31, 1996
Lmnggang-Tanui Contract Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6    Sept. 30, 1996



159 -
~~~~~~~~~~~AM5
|                                                              Tab~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ile 2
Page 2
c. Adiniostration and Haintenance Buildinas and Selxce Areas (Limited
Coemetitive liddina
Completo bid documants                        Jan. 1, 1994 - July 1, 1994
Invite bids                                  Jan. 15, 1994 - July 15, 1994
Receive bide                                 March 1, 1994 - Sept. 1, 1994
Complete bid evaluation                      April 1, 1994 - Oct. 1, 1994
Negotiate and sign contracts                  may 1, 1994 - Nov. 1, 1994
Start construction                            June 1, 1994 - Dec. 1, 1994
Complete construction                           July 15 - Nov. 30, 1996
II. Ilectrical and Mechaical Works
Lo2nang-TZax Hiahway--ContraCt #7 and Foshan-Kaininn
HiRBsv--Contract #5 (IC3)
Complete bid documents and review by HOC             June 15, 1994
Review bid documents by Bank and no
objection                                     June 25 - July 25, 1994
Invite bids an                                       Aug. 1, 1994
Last date to receive bids                            Oct. 13, 1994
Prepare bid evaluation reports and
Government review                             Oct. 15 - Nov. 25, 1994
Beak review and no objection to bid
evaluation report                          Dec. 1, 1994 - Jan. 10, 1995
Notify successful bidders                            Jan. 15, 1995
Negotia  end sign contract                         1ib. I - 28, 1995
Start construction                                   April 1, 1995
Completion construction                              Feb. 15, 1997
1 GPIC wishes to sign contract sections on various dates in order to spread the
timing of payment of contract advances.



- 160 -
ANXWE 5
cia ~    ~       ~       =a
CUANODONG PROVINCIAL HICEWAY PROJECT
Im=lemntation Proarsm for SunrvEision of Construction of
the Foshan-Ki2iLaU and LonaMang-Tmai Highwavs
Review and no objection of Bank to terms of reforence,
letter of imnitation and short list of consultants          April 30, 1992
Issue invitations to shortlisted consultants                  Sept. 1, 1992
Last date to receive proposals                                Oct. 31, 1992
Complete proposal evaluation report and MOC review           Oct. 1-31, 1992
ltnk revlow proposal evaluation report and
no objection                                               Nov. 1-30, 1992
Negotiations with consultant end sign contract               Dec. 15-319 1992
Training local personnel abroad                              Feb. 1-28, 1992
Start supervision of construction                             April 15, 1993
Complete supervision of construction                           Oct 31, 1997



- 161 -
mmI
Page 1
CH
GUAICDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SuDervision iselon PAOl
Timnlg            Main activities                                Skille requirement    Staff-weeks
11192     Initial Review                                         Highway Engineering           2
(i) steps taken by Borrower concerning loan            Highway Finance
effectivit';
(Li) bidding profile for civil worksl
(ill) status of consultant selection (highway);
(iv) local supervision team arrangements (highway
and RIP);
(v) status of land acquisition and resettlement;
and
(vi) progrese on highway financing.
4|93      Prolect Launch Workshon                                Highway Engineering           3
The review of all key procedures for Bank-             Procur ement
Executing Agency Interactions, such as project         Disbursement
selection (RIP), procurement, disbursemnt,             Environment
environment and resettlement, _mplementation           sighway Finance
schedule a"d progress reporting requirements.
Review progress on Highway Financing TA.
10/93     General Sunervslion                                    Highway/EngIneering           3
Resettlemant
Ci) review of overall progress for each com-
ponent and Identify pending Issues and
agree on follow up actions; and
(ll) reach agreement on resettlement monitoring
arrangements.
4/94      Maler Sunervision                                      Highway  ngin8e erng          4
In-depth review of implementatLon status with          snvlroNment
particular emphasis ong                                RIP, PRS
(1) contractors' performance                           Transport Economics
Cii) effectiveness of supervisiong
(ili) adequacy of environmental protection mea-
sureso
(iv) preparation of RIP subprojects and RIP, PHS,
Road Safety and staff training programws
and
(v) review progress on highway financing TA.
10194     General Sugervision                                 Bighway Engineerlng            3
(1) review overall progress for each component    Procurement
and Identify pending lssuee and agree on
follow up actions;
(ii) review proposal for equipment procurement
for the operation and maintenance of the
highway component, and
(iSl) review bidding docimnts for BEM supply and
installation contract for the highway.
4195      Maler Supervision                                   Highway Engineering            4
In-depth review of implementation statue wlth       Envirousnt
rzn.Il-Aar suo,phais ont                            Rosettlement
(i) con-a;tors' performance;                        Highway Finance
(i1) effectiveness of supervisioni
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection ma-
surest
(iv) RIP, PIS, Read Safety and staff training programs;
and
(v) review progress on hd&way financing TA.



- 162 -
A=6
Page 2
Timing            Maln activitles                                Skills requirement    Staff-weeks
10/95         rligway Engineering                                                             3
Reviewing oveo     progress for each component
and identifylng pendiag Issue& and agreeing on
follow up actions.
4196      Kalor 8ueu                                            Hghway Engineering            4
In-depth ravlrw of implemtation status with           Environment
particular  mpa hao oon                               RIP, PHS
(1) contractors' perfonmance                           lghweay Fnance
Cl) effctiveness of supervisiong
(Cit) adequacy of envlronemntal protection rea-
surest
(iv) RIP, PM, load Safety and staff training programsg
and
(v) review progres on highway flnanclng TA.
10/96     GenerHl SUD ighway Engineering                                                      2
Reviewing ove     progres for each component
and Identifying panding lmes and agrealig on
folow up act-low.
4/97      ^10r I Ml  lon                                         Highway Enginering           3
Zn-depth review of Implementation status with         Environment
particular * ph ael  ont                              RIP, PIS
(1) contractors' perfoumance;                         Highway Finance
(Ci) effectivenes of eupervlsong
(Cii) adequacy of environmental protection mea-
sures;
Civ) RIP, PM8, Road Safety and staff training programs.
and
(v) reviw progress on highway financing TA.
10/97                                                           Hiaenrl §°1  Bighway Engineering  2
Review  vev  progres  for each component and
identify pendng lasme and agree on follov up
actions.
4/98      CenHral  iDP                                           Elghway EnglneerIng          2
Review over      pla  etatlon status and
intalte t CR.
10/98     ,L3amiss                                              Highway Engineering          4
A cOmnolidated revie   of project Implemnta-          Transport Ecc-nomist
tion.                                                 Environment
Resettlement
RIP, PUS, Training
Toe;l                                                                         la4



- 163 -
Page I
CHIA
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Docgiments Available in the Pfrlect File
1. Shenghen--Shantou MotorwaE. Enineerins Feasibility Study Renort, Highway
Planning and Designing Institute of The Ministry of Comunications, March
1990
2  Reort on Assesoment of En-vironment Im2act of  xhenshen - Shantou
Motorway, Highway Scientific Research Institute, The Ministry of
Communications, May 1990
3. The People's Republir of China. Fohan-Zhanilana Auto-Onlv y lhwav
Protect. Prolilnarv leasibLlity Studt  Re_ort, Guangdong Provincial
Highway Planning end Design Institute, November 1990
4.  Proiect Feasibility Stuty Renort for Foshan-U12aini  Freewar, Guangdong
Provincial Highway Planning and Design Institute, August 1991
5. The Environmental ImvAct Assessment for Fo-&al (!oshan-1A121nn) HiaNwav
Pro1ect in Guanadona Province. China, Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research
Institute, Ministry of Communications, October 1991
6. The Latest Economlc Data and New Traffic Counto for 8henzhen-Shantou
ZDreos   , Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company, October 1991
7. Guanadong Provincial Hiahw-a Pro1-ct. Shenghen-Shantou and  oshgan-Kal2ini
Exnresswavs. Review for Entineerina Desian. Incention Renort, gampeax
International A/8, Danish Road Directorate, Navember 1991
8.  Gw nadona Provincial Hiahwta Pro1ect. Shenzhen-Shantou and Poshan-Kainlng
Exuresaways. Review for Enatneerina Desien. Dee4gn Revlew Re2ort, Kampoaz
InterLational A/$, Danish Road Directorate, December 1991
9.   oshan-RalKinin  Exreseway--Finolize  laosettlement Action Plan (RP)
Guangdong Proavincial Freeway Compony, July 1992
10.  Shenxhen to Shantou Xxork*psway (Lonmang to Tan=i Section)--Minalized
Resettlement Action PlI, Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company, July 1992
11. An Executive Summarv 2f the Environmental Assessment of the Foshan-
Kaioinat Exoreoswy, Environmental Protection Division, GPFC, February
1992
12. AnEtecutive Sunmary of the Enmironmental Assesoment of the Shenahen-
Shuztou Exorexprsg (Lonaaana-Tuxi Section)j, Environmental Protection
Division, GPFC, February 1992



- 164 -
,7
Page 2
13. loshon-Rai2nae ESncreoaw   Projects  nviromental Action Plan (xreised),
Cuangdong Provincial Freeway Company, January 17, 1992
14. Shnhn-Ih=qM Hiaba  (Lonagne to Taz  StIgn) a nvronenal
Action Plan (revision), Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company, January 17,
1992
15. EnMvronmental Imsact Asosesment Report for Road Im2rovement Program of
guanadonS Provincial Hiathwva Proloct inaced by IlRD, Guangdong
Provincial Highway Administration, May 1992
16. nMvironmenta.l Protection Imileentation Proagam fgr Road IXMrovement
Proaram of Guangdong Provincial HiahWa Prolect Financed by lIBED
Guangdong Provincial Highway Administration, May 1992
17. Lettex:  "Re: OD Provincial HIahWa ProlectlReunonse to thea ui.et on
ERRP of Fo2han-KAivinit ExnreseWav SMahenn-Shantou Exnrseaav and RIP,
Letter from Guangdong Province to Bank, September 2, 1992



- 16S5-            Chartl1
11 a   ig  I   ~~~~I I 
Ii'~~~~
41'                    II'
Xi                    lj



Cum
Ormaanation of the QuazzadonE prowingial Dinhmay hjbmietsrotion tea
provincial Hisjua
Adoiaitretion
surea
214
Egecutive Uateltnance      Maintenance        lorrY         Highway         Nann,'ug and       abr        Education      Adi
Sectio     Section       Fee Collectiug     Section    hAdmnstnration       Vinanclug       adWage        Section      Seto
Office                        Section          Section        Section
24         ~~~25             12             20              25               17             5             44
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P  y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
cwtlaf      g   Blf        Plit_cei          htDIOCeJeP           .a*t            Labor  etna4 S
Sehtinr       Project    wDeprtuat  I Cadre Cuierviict  8          r    tleo   I8                Ud SeW Io I
OOf f f    t        Comm                               Sectsioa
24           24              3            3         20         25                 40         2 
Note: The wmbes 1nelid  the blocks indicate the number of staff for the specific unit.
got



Otzation of MavtMaNgtal Protection MAnien
IlorIA Bank           state Emwicoment"Imonitoring
ftat"tun Bum"                                       ftv~~~~~~~~~~rgniation at
Protectioa Bureau                                                  +the highest irni
_  g    _                                                        1 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mntoringaned
Ie  OrgnizatioB  at
the lrst Lmel
G-ner                  "=*| GP Ibntr 11_ntal 1                                                                     lpleti8
So"rwuoc               PrnviLncs                                       IoltorLng CenterO                                   ting
Office                PrIY] th   t  Level
Company ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Ognzaina
Monitoring a
cityiomal                                 Cit Iixo,mntl              Ci   C omena                             1  npl.menting
8W1glse               boProtectio BDr                                   otorin  Center                             Organiatio at
sepr_entattwl               Ioa, oneC       I                   I      II                                            the Seeond Leve
_  _   .    partty stafft
t actratlm
Usident                                    COUR" dDD   |        |      cowy r      umatl                          Implementing
tagldr IStatio                              Protectim aute"             Montorig statio                           Organi1tio  1at
011C         |   |                     |    l                                          ,J the Ticrd lavel
|   s                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti  Fourth levl    {"
Il1inanting             £Ainistrative and Monitoring                    Auxiliry Organizatio
Organization                    Organization



RUSSIA                                                                                     RUSSIA
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
/                                                                         IHElONGllANG
ULAANBAATAR
UZBEKISTAN          ALIA                                                                                MONGOLIA                                                            ir
fr    6*   oh                                                                                       NEI           9 t\       (3                                                     t_          * v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
FRUNZE                               0ALIN->N 
SD Wqi                                                                                         .mONGOL                      Rl
KYRGHYZSTAN                                                                                                                                                                  $                                             JAPA
_ cr                                             Omvwon                                                                                      <k       A   /         17 Sbeny ns \~~~~OT                                JAPAN        
TADJIKISTAN                                    YNJANG                                                        ^/                                                                             DEM. REP
I     /                                          ;       k  hE AK-                   /
.NaAN                                                                              >                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF KOREA
<~''~'  nrZD  ~         H~Bl'" roreeoi!ANIIN SN!REP OF
CAN-'       ~     '             /e       R        tK-~-                JKOREA
N.                                         Sr-S           / ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~SHANXI (
g                    linl@mX     f    0'~~~~~~~ dL                \     <4   StNDT.-ONG      no
This mophoe Pren p pared by                               )                                                             f \>       Tone eo       'N. t           -J
The WorS b Ws s;_r euoe b yI                                                   QING11AI                                            o Si)
iforrhe,oteie-loorf The .Wodd                                                                             A                            I" \ Oree?
o LmG. The deromwi-omo                                                                                                  r r  *               0    om=n o
thi. mopdo rot rplfo o the p                                                                                            >           b'er\       HENAN . f pJI!NGSU
of Tle Wo=d Rhok Irop ooy                                    .                                                                  SHAANYI                 C-)
orocpoc f oh fo-rd-ree                                     4>-.                                                                                          IANNUl
50'  XiJ JO                                      k                                   A [  - <   \ h hiS7   s¢ii  SHANGHAI SHI
WANGm                                                                             -                                 ZNrJ, @ NC
NEPAL       SICHUAN    corse;r       &>
NEPAL                    0-                                                                 o 0w4                                 {Nn    j
CHINA                                                >9                     a r<                            roeesoeej
MAJOR HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                 i--                                           1   J            >5 HANGXI
MAJOR HIGHWAYS:                                                ,                       rAsN , )                                        )    Qoerlrwo
COMPLETED|iP                                            t                                                             -            <--
UNDERCON5TRUCTION/bTHFIVEYEARPLAN (1991 1995)                              .A V GANANGDNC                                                '2
9HFIVE YEAR PLAN (1996-2000)                                                                                            GUYUDNNAN  OC GLANGXI  e   rPMO   o0hemen
PLANNED bEYOND 20D0                                                                                  N           '             o01m                                                                                      =
BN FUDE PRTP \OJECTSHONG KONG. U.K.
WORLD BANK fVESTMEANT IN ThEMAJORROAD NETWORK:     RANK  NDEDPORTPROJECTSMac, Port.
ONGOING WORLD BANK PROJECTS              O3    PROO1NCE                      $          -,             VIETNAM                                                                 PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED WORLD BANK PROJECTS              *     NATIONAL CAPNTALS                   .f
PROANCE BOUNDORLES     -      nL          LAO PEOPLE'S                                                     Aeo i          e       e        e
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     THAILAND U    DEM. REP                         HAINAN



N                                      ~~~~HUNAN
/  741                                                      ~N.JIANGXI
I H  U N A N 4 a,, ; ,\ j$ -                                                                                                  RonhcJNoI A,N GXI  
,-\ ca, y -  (   . j  L  n   ~ i   b    \ ~    Shin- /- --                                                                          FUJIAN                 25o
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 -6
t;ta   aut  D     _                                                 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~  uYon/$h   0a   *-   oo     o _           O.7                         sHei3  fl9\ 
*     ,>SS*isi-                                                                                          C   Qt >U.E11C                        e5ud         (/opn -                                   Shkn Pingyon'        c           Dcu 
-                                                                                                  7          o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.ping
UANGXI                    Q,-Ramsai/as<>sosai  f  \>COnn    Y                         O                          \$            A    Longcho '~          0       >          O E I X I A N                                       %
P .,-~~~~~O                                                                                        I V A  u   J{_UFi> t5     oop            /                                                     isisO                                                     4 
,o/Y,nde                              .-                                               0000i0000 Ih
GUANGXI                                                                                                                                                                                      24J  9  'MHX
( Nn~,T.cdn,k,op                                                                ,0                                                                 f4<G>\         i        H--n - -a-->:  Y:GDGNG }                                                                  1/CGI
Z-k                                                                                             A ZH   I\  QV    no 
|-5                                                                           PROV I    P                                        2H W   P J
- . ~~Th,shon  Zkcho    I       0FI~"IG KO G, U.K.                                        PROPOSED PROJECT
-22                                                                           ogln           Eni-D00                                  AA                                                                          HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
Z -lU I-i A  - PO-E     - -0-000-0-NATIONAL ROADS UPGRZADING  )RIP FIRST PACKAGE
T. N.-F.9                                                                                                                             ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f0o0o    GRAVEL ROAD PAVING  SUB-PROJECT
'I                                                                                                                                            0000T0000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROAD REHABIUTATION
00000 NATIONAL ROADS UPGRADING     TENTATIVELY IDENTIFIED
*  -~~~~~,  Lon~~~~~~fon  oko ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                 00000000   GRAVEL ROAD PAVING              ADDITIONAL RIP~~~~~......    RAELROD PVIG  DDIIOALRI
PAVED ROAD REHABILITATION           SUE-PROJECT
PLANNED EXPRESSWAY
-EXISTING EXPRESSWAY
----EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
NATIONAL ROADS
PROVINCE ROADS
51                                                                                                                                                   ------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADs
~~~~~21' ~~~~                                             ~                   '                                                   '$  PORTS
Ao    RIVER PORTS
i~~    f4~0fl9                                                                                                                                                                              ±       ro A_RPETS21



U NGV U 0-
DmghiO 4 < 0 Sn9hul10'    -$ -9   > i                                                                                              CHINA                          |--A"
/                  _ ,GUAI21Gz[IOt<,                                       GUANGDONG PROVINCE HIGHWAY PROJECT
a ZhoobinS ./,'/ \'(' 'A:'G4r/y r a r <FOSHAN-KAIPING AND LONGC'ANG-TANXI HIGHWAY < N  vSai
ZHAQQIjG oTao                   ,           I1                                         ,
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uPROPOSED PROJECT.                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
HIDGHWA CONSTRUCTION                                        S
4 -, [ <e e 9 ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRIDGES__
TUNNELS
-     INTERCHANGES                              bA    8.4,
''Xinxinq
0                                                                                                                          -4 HeChene.  D  \  X   A  XXinke  _   EXISTING EXPRESSWAY
Hecheng 1C)   CAGI           ( k H  N G S H A N                                                           -~           NATIONAL ROADS
[ t,\   1  ZhiShnnX    52,;A   9    X  X   X                                                         =     PROVINCE ROADS
Z~~~~~~~ti~~~~~~~~FTa ~~~~~~~~~~COUNTY ROADS
S'444;K~~~~~~                          -ph                                                                RAILROADS
F<f0/   \~>-.   Shu ikouu  Xinhui                                                                                S ~~,  t9    PROVINCE CAPITAL
'K'-    (*  '< .                                                                                                 -        PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
J'ITolPrzipir+>              -         \   \X<                                                                    - PROVINCE BL'UNDARIES
M J; A N  kM EI~ .?                              9         %     o/Zhuh.i                                               -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,.      ,  SI>Tr ishon             I<      g \       /    >
Enping'                            7 -)oumw1                                           °
)   g    /'     /             r =                  , ~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT.
0    10    20i 3(   40         r
KILOMETERS_
Yonghu                      -          t    0          4 B          12    16_20                                                         Gongping20
>:)    (   /        /                   /4clihu(              \         S           ~~~~~~        ~       ~      ~~~                                                           ~        ~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~~KILOE4RS  ~j. 
0                xinxur                          /         --              HUIZHOU                                                                                                                    / SHAN.'EI
/                 ~~~~~~Shatian                                                                                                                                             SH NG         E
Pingchio4                    -                                                                                                                                       Hai euC
S     d H E Enshui                                                                                                                                                Li.nan                        He.i
Longgongo                                                                                                                     EBc  U                                                                                                u n"'  ' /  "  Tache  Taihu
* . . HYan xion
0PingshonAtob6wi                                                                                                                    Hun                                -'Ckeg
0 Henggang                                                                                                    -.'         XUTAON HNMzn                                           ---
SHENZHEN                                                                                                                                                                                     Dongyongua giVu
Y-ntnyu                                                                      Yonzhou      ,                      Hong    o i B   y             Xingong
6Sfatoujiao                                                                                             K



