Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE  Copy                             Report No. P-2913-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KOREA LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
December 1, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Prior to 1/12/80      From 1/12/80
Currency unit: Won
US$1.00        =  W 485                  W 580
US$1 million   =  W 485 milion           W 580 million
Won 1          =  US$0.0021              US$0.0017
Won 1 million  -  US$2,062               US$1,724
Won 1 billion  -  US$2.06 million        US$1.72 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
BOK       - Bank of Korea
CNB       - Citizens National Bank
DMB       - Deposit Money Bank
EPB       - Economic Planning Board
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return
Exim Bank - Export Import Bank of Korea
FRR       - Financial Rate of Return
GNP       - Gross National Product
GRA       - Guarantee Release Arrangement
IFC       - International Finance Company
IFD       - Industrial Finance Debenture
IRF       - Industrial Rationalization Fund
KDB       - Korea Development Bank
KDFC      - Korea Development Finance Company
KECO      - Korea Electric Company
KfW       - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KFX       - Korea Foreign Exchange
KIST      - Korea Institute of Science and Technology
KLTCB     - Korea Long Term Credit Bank
MCI       - Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
NIF       - National Investment Fund
POSCO     - Pohang Iron and Steel Company
SMIB      - Small and Medium Industry Bank
TDF       - Tourism Development Fund
TSD       - Time and Savings Deposits
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
KOREA LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLTCB)
Guarantor:        Republic of Korea
Amount:           $90 million equivalent
Terms:            The proposed loan will bear interest at 9.25% p.a., amorti-
zation to conform substantially to the aggrepate of the
amortization schedules applicable to Lwe specific invest-
ment projects financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
loan. The maximum repayment period would be 15 years
including 3 years of grace.
Relending terms: KLTCB will on-lend the proceeds of the loan to subborrowers
at an interst rate two percentage points above the weighted
average cost of foreign funds to KLTCB for a maximum period
of 13 years, including 3 years of grace. Subborrrowers
will assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project
description:      The proposed project incorporates a package of
financial sector policy measures which would be implemented
by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of
the financial system of Korea. The proposed loan would be
used to help cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two
years. In order to encourage increased mobilization of
medium-term foreign commercial borrowings by KLTCB, the
proposed loan would incorporate a special amLortization
feature, which would permit the blending of Bank and
commercial resources.  There is no special risk associated
with the project.
Estimated dis-      Bank FY:         1981       1982       1983       1984
bursements:                        ----- ($ million) ---------
Annual           11.0       46.0       31.0       2.0
Cumulative       11.0       57.0      88.0       90.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3115-KO, dated November 20, 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KOREA LONG TERM CREDIT BANK WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Korea Long Term Credit Bank (KLTCB) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $90.0 million. The loan will bear
interest at 9.25% p.a. and will be amortized substantially in accordance with
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of its proceeds. The maximum repayment
period applicable to subborrowers would be 13 years, including 3 years of
grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Currenit Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of SecM80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance and Emerging Structural Problems
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, the country was suffering from the
typical vicious circle of poverty. GNP was about $80 per capita and exports
only $41 million. During the following 17 years, 1962-78, real GNP grew by
9.4% p.a., exports by 40% p.a., and industrial production by about 20% pea.
In 1978, per capita GNP exceeded the thousand dollar mark, exports were
above $10 billion, the net foreign capital inflow was only albout 15% of
total imports, the rate of unemployment was down to 3.2% and the ratio of
population below the poverty level was estimated to be under 15%.
4.        Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of growth between 1973
and 1978 despite a total dependency on imports for its petroleum needs and
the quadrupling of oil import prices between 1972 and 1974. Korea's oil
import bill grew to $1.10 billion in 1974, absorbing 22% of export receipts.
The terms of trade worsened by about 23% between 1972 and 1974 leading to
slightly over 4% of GNP loss. In spite of this, Korea succeeded in
maintaining a GNP growth rate of 8% in 1974 and about 10% p.a. during
1974-78. Notwithstanding the recession in developed countries and growing
protectionism, Korea's exports in dollar terms grew by 38% in 1974 and by
32% p.a. during 1974-78. The ratio of foreign savings to GNP which rose to
12.4% in 1974 (from about 4% in 1973) declined to 3.3% in 1978. Throughout
this period, the rate of unemployment continued to decline aLnd the
investment-income ratio during 1974-78 was higher (29%) than during the
preceding five years (26%).



-2-
5.        Among the policy instruments which contributed to Korea-s success
in very rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis were: (a)
increased borrowing from abroad in order to maintain the momentum of growth;
(b) devaluation in 1973 and 1974; (c) restraint in wage increases in 1974
and 1975 when real wages in mining and manufacturing increased by 5.1% p.a.
and labor productivity by 10.5% p.a.; (d) an increase in government savings
from 2.3% of GNP in 1974 to 6.5% of GNP in 1978; and (e) continued emphasis
on export diversification in products as well as markets. In addition to
these policy adjustments, the Korean economy also gained from (a) an
improvement in terms of trade and (b) a spectacular growth in overseas
construction contracts which stood at $15 billion at the end of 1978 and
yielded gross earnings of about $2.2 billion.
6.         However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
exports, investment and growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the
economy. Between 1975 and 1978 the real domestic demand (consumption,
investment and exports) expanded by an unprecedented 60%. Both the volume
of exports and the level of real fixed investment doubled over these three
years and purchasing power of exports improved as terms of trade showed a
recovery of 28%. Such a rapid expansion in demand, along with multiplier
effects understandably created bottlenecks in the economy and fuelled
inflationary pressures. Labor markets witnessed a major transformation in
this period. Non-agricultural employment expanded by 30% between 1975 and
1978, and employment in the critical construction sector increased by 55%
during 1977 and 1978. Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money
wages in manufacturing increased by 33% p.a. during 1977-79 and real wages
clearly outstripped the growth in productivity. The constraint on the
supply of housing together with fast accelerating demand, led to very sharp
increases in prices of dwellings. Structural factors such as shifts in the
pattern of demand and bottlenecks in the supply of agricultural products
such as meat and vegetables put further pressures on consumer prices. The
sharp rise in Korea's price level compared with the major trading partners
in turn eroded export competitiveness and led to a major deterioration in
the balance of payments. Only a part of the widening of the current
account deficit from $1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2 billion in 1979 was
attributable to an increase in the oil import bill. The basic underlying
factors were the stagnation in the volume of exports and rapidly rising
nonoil imports reflecting continuation of a major investment boom till the
third quarter of 1979. Since early 1979, the Government has been concerned
about the excessive investment and overheating of the economy and initially
made efforts to reduce inflation through containing domestic expenditures.
The April 1979 stabilization cum restructuring program focussed on tight
monetary and fiscal policies. The growing weakness in the export demand and
the sharp rise in oil prices were, however, not foreseen and thus the
economy slowed down much more than expected, the inflation rates stayed
high and the balance of payments emerged as a serious constraint.
7.         The difficult economic situation prevailing in 1979 was further
aggravated by the second oil crisis and the political problems emerging in
1979/80. As a result of the increase in the price of oil, Korea-s annual



- 3 -
oil import bill rose from about $3 billion in 1979 to about $6 billion in
1980. The deterioration in the terms of trade amounted to a loss of GNP of
about 4% between 1978 and 1980. Moreover, the oil price increase contributed
to a slowing down of the growth rate of the industrialized countries and to
an acceleration of their rates of inflation. The prospects for world trade
in manufactures deteriorated and for an economy like Korea's, where growth
has been led by exports, this amounted to a significant worsening of growth
prospects. At the same time, the months between the October 1979 assassin-
ation of President Park and the inauguration of the present administration
in September were marked by a high degree of political uncertainty and civil
unrest.
8.        Under the combined impact of the adverse economic and political
events, the economy went into a recession: the seasonally adjusted GNP, as
well as nonagricultural GDP, declined in each of the las. three quarters of
1979. Notwithstanding the recessionary tendencies wholesale and consumer
prices rose by over 18% during 1979, compared to 12-14% increase during
1978. The current account balance of payments deficit widened sharply from
$1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2 billion, or about 7% of GNP, in 1979. The
nature of the current economic difficulties and some key policy issues were
reviewed in the latest Bank economic report which concluded that in order to
tackle the serious problems created by the past structural imbaxlances and
the oil crisis, it would be necessary to adopt measures for a restructuring
of the economy aimed at improving efficiency, controlling inflation and
improving the balance of payments position. Among the needed measures that
the report identified were: (a) a review of the investment pattern in the
heavy industries sector, (b) restructuring agricultural income support
programs, (c) improved energy efficiency through proper pricing as well as
energy saving investments, and (d) reform of the financial system. As noted
below, the Government has taken a series of measures in 1980 both to
revitalize the economy and addresss the structural issues. In spite of
these measures, however, it is expected that the rate of growth of GNP in
1980 will be negative (-2%), the rate of inflation (wholesale prices) about
40% and current account deficit about $5.5 billion.
Policy Measures Taken in 1980
9.        In its attempt to correct the emerging structural imbalances and
to respond to the oil price hikes, the Government, initiated a series of
policy actions in 1980, in three phases. At the beginning of the year,
within the overall framework of a "stabilization first" policy, the
Government introduced changes in the exchange rate, interest rates and
energy prices in order to respond to the changing structure of international
prices. In June, the Government moved to increase public expenditure and
relax credit ceilings to tackle the growing problems of unemployment and
declining industrial production. The third phase came a few weeks after
the current administration took office in September 1980 and was character-
ized by a more active program for the revitalization of the economy through
promotion of exports and of construction industry and consolidation of the
heavy industries sector through mergers. Prospects for the effective
implementation of this program are heightened by the fact that: the new
Government includes a number of highly experienced and competent



- 4 -
individuals. The Prime Minister served in key Cabinet positions during most
of the 1970s and is identified with the formulation and application of the
imaginative and bold policies which enabled Korea to surmount the difficul-
ties posed by the first oil crisis of 1974/75. Some details of the measures
adopted during these three phases are noted below.
10.       Exchange Rates, Interest Rates and Energy Prices.  In January
1980, the won was devalued by about 20% from W 484 to W 580 per US$1. This
was followed in February by a new exchange rate system under which the value
of the won would be determined on the basis of a basket of currencies
(consisting of SDR and a sub-basket of currencies reflecting the shares of
the countries in Korea's merchandise trade) although other factors such as
relative price movements could also be taken into account. The new system
has given flexibility to Korea's exchange rate and the dollar value of the
won has declined by about 10% since February 1980. In January 1980, interest
rates were also raised by about 6 percentage points for most lending and
deposit rates. Subsequently there have been some minor downward adjustments
in interest rates; however, at present, the prime lending rate stands at
about 21 percent, which is higher than the expected rate of inflation for
the year ahead. In response to rapidly rising oil import prices, the
Government had already raised domestic oil prices by about 75% in 1979.
In January 1980 the prices were raised again by about 60%, bringing the
total increase in one year to over 170%.
11.       Demand Management.  At the beginning of 1980, the Government was
pursuing an extremely tight monetary policy. In spite of the substantial
increase in domestic prices, due to the energy price increases and devalua-
tion, the rate of growth of money supply (M2) was to be kept at the
target of 20% in 1980. In order to restrain the budget deficit, Government
expenditures were to be cut back, with principal emphasis on reducing
expenditures with a low employment impact or high fuel or import intensity.
However, by mid-year, concerned at the rising unemployment and declining
industrial production, the Government eased the monetary and fiscal squeeze.
In response to the Bank's suggestions for flexible monetary policy and in
agreement with the IMF, the target growth rate of M2 for 1980 was raised
to 25%. W 112.7 billion of budget expenditures frozen earlier was made
available for public works programs and additional credit were made available
for small and medium industries and for construction of housing units,
particularly for low income families. Further incentives for residential
construction were given in September by reducing the rate of capital gains
tax on real estate transfer (from 50-80% to 35-75%), and increased funds
were made available to Korea Housing Bank and the Korea Land Development
Corporation. To promote exports, loans per dollar of letter of credit for
exports were increased and the banks were asked to pool resources for
providing performance guarantees requested by domestic companies for
overseas construction contracts, and for helping exports of heavy and
chemical industries on a deferred payment basis.
12.       Protecting Livelihood of the Poor.  Throughout the year, with
growing unemployment and rising prices, the Government has adopted various
measures to alleviate the economic strain on the poor. Among these measures
were: expansion of public works programs; various subsidy schemes on



- 5 -
essential goods and services such as rice, coal briquettes and bus service;
program for increasing imports of major grains and giving tariff reductions
on some essential commodities; and increase in interest rates on special
savings programs for low income families.
13.       Industrial Rationalization Program.  The new administration has
moved to tackle the very difficult issues arising from recent excessive
investment in some heavy industries. It has issued instructions for
consolidation in six industries, namely, automobiles, power generation
equipment, copper smelting, heavy electrical equipment, electronic switching
systems, and marine diesel engines. Since all these operations are
privately-owned, the Government instructions for mergers will involve
complicated changes in ownership, licensing arrangements, cont'ractual
relationships and management patterns. In a move to encouragesgreater
equity financing, the Government will disallow the treatment of interest
payments as expenses in the calculation of tax liability for firms which are
already too heavily leveraged. The larger companies will be required to
register all land owned and the land found unnecessary by the Government for
the companies operations will have to be sold and the proceeds of these
sales used for improving debt equity ratios of these firms.
14.       Expansion of Social Development Expenditure.  The new administra-
tion proposes to expand rapidly expenditures in the areas of education,
housing, health and social welfare. It has announced a large increase in
enrollment quotas for higher education, reform of the private tutoring system,
and an expansion of the medical insurance program.
15.       The Government is in the process of formulating the next Five Year
Plan which will cover the years 1982-86./1 The objectives of the plan are
restoration of growth momentum along with equity through employment
generation and increased social development expenditures. The general
strategy is to increase efficiency of resource use by opening up the economy
to greater international competition, by liberalization of the financial
system and by promotion of the competitive system in domestic production and
marketing. The emphasis on heavy and chemical industries would continue but
will be combined with efforts at consolidation of the industrial structure
and promotion of science and technology. Energy conservation and substi-
tution for oil will receive major attention. The income support program for
the poor (including rural income support program) would gradually shift from
generalized subsidy programs to targetted investment and income transfer
programs. There would be greater efforts than in earlier plans on reducing
regional imbalances, meeting basic needs, tackling urban problems such as
housing, transport and water supply and environmental pollution and
development of a social security system.
/1   The Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed program for
assistance to the Fifth Plan formulation. This assistaLnce involves
mobilizing some 30 foreign consultants to advise on some selected
aspects of the Plan and organizing training programs for Koreans
at selected institutions abroad.



-6-
External Capital Requirements
16.       At a recently held meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea,
there was a concensus that in spite of the current difficulties, Korea's
longer term prospects remain good. Among the sources of strengths for the
economy are: a large investment base, the young and rapidly growing labour
force, the scope for exports of capital goods including construction
equipment, and, above all, the skill and dedication of its labour force, the
dynamism of its private sector. It is generally recognised, however, that
even with strenuous Government efforts for structural adjustment, Korea's
balance of payments can improve only over a period of several years. The
current account deficit in balance of payments is expected to remain about
$5 billion per year during the next few years. Allowing for debt service
and addition to reserves, the gross external capital inflows required during
1980-81 are estimated to be about $7.5 billion per year, of which about $1.3
billion could be expected from public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but
including IMF), and the rest from private sources.
17        While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will
have to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official
sources. It should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated
levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are
a consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the
domestic savings rate. The ratio of foreign savngs to GNP is expected to
decline in the eighties, following the restructuring and readjustment
planned for the next few years. Servicing of the debt should not pose
difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the continuing
emphasis on export growth, provided that the proportion of external debt
incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not excessive. The
projected ratio of debt service payments to total export earnings is expected
to remain below 16% throughout the eighties.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of July 31, 1980, Korea had received 52 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,945.2 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$976.0 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.



19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government ; efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of inf-rastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life
in the rural areas.
20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLTCB) /1 has received $320.0 mil-
lion, the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $252.5 million, the Small and Medium
Industry Bank (SMIB) $145 million in Bank loans for rz. anding to private
industry and the Citizens National Bank (CNB) $30 million to meet the
financial needs of the small enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these
loans have been the numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds
through the financial intermediaries. This has resulted in the overall
development of the industrial sector, and also contributed to the achievement
of institutional improvements as well as the Government's objective of decen-
tralizing industry.
21.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industriali-
zation has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has
played an important role in these developments. In addition to the recently
approved loan of $94 million for the seventh railway project, some $340 mil-
lion had been provided for six railway projects designed to increase the
railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5
million have been made for highway construction and paving of high priority
sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
/1 Previously called the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC).



-8-
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agri-
cultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in the
country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for
the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government-s rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea-s power
system.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-K0), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1979.
25.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
July 31, 1980, entered into 28 commitments, totalling $67.9 million (net of
participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
26.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing. The maturity of many of
the Korean institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a
sector lending approach in some areas along the lines of the recently
approved loan for higher technical education which will contribute to the
modernization and improvement of the system of higher technical education so
as to increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing
requirements of the economy.
27.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for



- 9 -
agricultural credit and marketing, for low-income housing, ancd for the further
development of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial
areas, which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser developed
regions of the country and would have a significant impact on the problems of
migration to the major metropolitan areas.
28.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program.
29.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1979 was about 13%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 5% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 8% and 6% respectively, by the mid-eighties.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
30.       Korea's growth strategy has been based on the expansion of in-
dustrial activity with emphasis on the promotion of manufactured exports.
Rapid growth in GNP at about 10% p.a. in real terms during the last two
decades has induced considerable structural change in the economy. The
growth of the manufacturing sector, at 18% p.a. over the period 1962-79, has
transformed a predominantly agricultural economy into one in which mining and
manufacturing play an important role and account for 34% of GNP.
31.       In the early 1960s, Korea's exports were insignificant.  In 1965,
commodity exports totalled $181 million, of which manufactures accounted for
just over half. By 1979, commodity exports reached $15.1 billion; 90% of
these consisted of manufactures representing 27% of manufacturing output.
Although Korea's export pattern continued to display a high degree of
reliance on a few labor-intensive traditional exports (textiles, clothing,
footwear, plywood and certain miscellaneous manufactures), there has also
been a discernible movement in the direction of more sophisticated
skill-intensive products. Items such as electrical machinery, machine
tools, electronic goods and components, and transport equipment (including
ships), have been added to Korea's range of exports. At the same time, the
pursuit of backward linkages, usually from export products, has enabled
domestic production to replace imports in certain sectors, e.g., textiles,
apparel, sewing machines, certain metal products and chemica:Ls, and in
particular segments of the basic metal, petrochemical and machinery
industries.



- 10 -
32.        Several factors have contributed to the remarkable performance of
the export-oriented industrial sector. They include: efficiency of factor
use (labor and capital) in manufacturing; heavy investment outlays in industry
with an average real growth rate of about 15% p.a. during the last decade;
rapid and steady increases in productivity levels; and the combination of
flexible exchange rate and export incentives which maintained the
profitability of Korean exports in the face of relatively high rates of
domestic inflation.
33.       Korea's economy began to show definite signs of overheating in 1978.
Manufacturing investment, which had been increasing at a rate of 13.3% in real
terms over 1975-77, accelerated sharply by 63.4% in 1978. With hindsight it
may be averred that the growth of. manufacturing investment was too rapid and
concentrated excessively in capital-intensive industries (such as heavy
machinery and petrochemicals) resulting in a steep rise in capital intensity
of output as well as increased inflationary pressures in 1978-79. The
manufacturing growth rate of 10.6% in 1979 was about half that in 1978. The
Government's expectation that the GNP growth rate will be negative in 1980
implies that the rate of growth of manufacturing output has been even more
sluggish in the first half of this year.  The Government believes that a
number of structural factors affecting the industrial sector have contributed
to the slowdown. For instance, overcapacity is now apparent in some branches
of heavy industry and real wage increases have outstripped productivity gains
since the mid-seventies and caused an erosion of Korea's comparative
advantage in labor-intensive manufactured exports. The Government has begun
to formulate a structural adjustment program, one of the main objectives of
which will be to enable the industrial sector to continue in its role as the
major source of growth. The Bank has been consulted on this effort and
has under review the Government's request for a series of structural
adjustment loans. The Government's plans to rationalize the structure of
heavy industry by promoting mergers of some of the firms involved and to
concentrate more heavily on the promotion of skill-intensive industries such
as engineering and electronics appear to be steps in the right direction.
Korea-s well-trained labor force, the excellent record of its economic
management in adapting to changing circumstances, and the foothold it has
secured in growing markets such as the Middle East, augur well for its
industrial sector regaining its dynamism.
The Financial Sector
34.       Korea's financial system and institutions have expanded rapidly in
step with the growth of the industrial sector: the consolidated assets of
the financial sector have increased by 13.8% p.a. in real terms over 1975-79
compared to a GNP growth of 11% p.a. Lending for industry has kept pace with
the heavy investment needs of the sector: manufacturing fixed investment
increased by an average of 45% p.a. in current prices over 1977-79 while the
increase in term lending (i.e. loans with a maturity exceeding one year)



- 11 -
averaged 52% p.a. It is estimated that approximately 50% of manufacturing
fixed investment in 1979 was supplied by Korean financial institutions while
self-financing accounted for 30% and other sources of funds, including direct
overseas borrowings, accounted for the remaining 20%.
35.        The Korean financial system is highly specialized.  It comprises:
(a) banking institutions which along with the (central) Bank of Korea (BOK),
form the monetary system; and (b) nonbank institutions which do not take
deposits from the general public. Banking institutions comprise mainly the
commercial banks and a number of specialized banks which mobilize and
allocate funds to specific sectors of the economy (e.g., small-scale industry
and agriculture). The commercial banks are the main source of short- and
medium-term working capital for industry; the specialized banks are the major
purveyors of longer-term capital. The Bank has lent to two major specialized
banks dealing with smaller enterprises: SMIB and CNB. TL_ether with the
BOK, banking institutions accounted for 73.8% of the financial sector's
assets in 1979. Nonbank financial institutions perform a more specialized
function of allocating resources, mainly long-term, to particular
sectors/branches of the economy and of mobilizing specific types of resources
(e.g. insurance and short term finance companies). KDB and KLI'CB have been
the two main nonbank financial institutions meeting the long-term financing
needs of industry. At end 1979, they jointly accounted for 56% of the total
assets of nonbank financial institutions. They have played a major role in
the transfer of World Bank resources to industry.
36.       Over the past twenty years, the financial system has played a
crucial role in Korea by providing the financial support necessary to
implement the Government's economic development strategy. The Government has
effectively used the financial system as a tool to implement its investment
decisions in both the public and private sectors. The financial system has
served Korea well in the past decade and a half during which its development
strategy has centered around the achievement of rapid rates of the growth of
manufactured output principally for export. The country's financial mechanism
which is characterized by a high degree of responsiveness to the Government-s
priorities, has clearly played a major role in helping the manufacturing
sector to act as the major engine of growth. For instance, the operation of
the export credit system has been a vital ingredient of the phenomenal export
growth which has provided the foundation for the enormous expansion of the
economy since the mid-60s. The substantial degree of Government control
over the system has, however, contributed towards the creation of one of the
major problems with which Korea is now faced with - i.e., over investment in
certain segments of the manufacturing sector. In the latter half of the 70s,
the Government placed increasing emphasis in the development of heavy manu-
facturing and chemical industries. At that time, it was believed that Korea's
comparative advantage would lie in these fields. Accordingly, the Government
used the financial system to funnel resources towards the new heavy and
chemical industries which were highly capital-intensive. The main instrument
used by the Government to effect this strategy was the National Investment



- 12 -
Fund (cf. para. 37 below).  It is now evident that this policy culminated in
substantial over-investment in the heavy and chemical industries to the
detriment of Korea's prospects for continuing the economic success of the
past (cf. para. 33 above).
37.       The Government fully owns or holds controlling participations in
the share capital of the major financial institutions including commercial
banks, specialized banks and KDB. It also effectively controls the
mobilization and allocation of resources by the financial system primarily
by: (a) administering the interest rate structure and the yields on deposits
and other instruments of resource mobilization; and (b) providing the
financial institutions with resources in the shape of funds earmarked for
specified purposes, e.g., in the case of monies originating from the National
Investment Fund (NIF) the Government stipulates the particular sectors or
subsectors (and, at times the individual firms) towards which these should be
directed. This "directed lending" system, which accounts for approximately
40% of total institutional lending, is administered through guidelines and
directives issued by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the BOK. The system
circumscribes the discretion exercised by financial institutions in their
allocation of funds. At least half of the directed loans are made at
rates of interest which are at levels below the market rate. Short-term
export credits and the NIF program are the main components of the system of
subsidized lending. The commercial banks are the main source of export
credits while nearly two-thirds of NIF loans to industry are channeled through
KDB.
38.       Since its establishment in 1974, the NIF has gradually evolved into
a major source of long-term funds for the priority sectors of industry.
Total NIF loans outstanding reached $2.5 billion at end-1979, accounting for
30.5% of all outstanding term loans by KDB and banking institutions. NIF
resources are mobilized primarily through compulsory contributions by banking
institutions out of their deposit resources. NIF loans are aimed primarily at
restructuring and deepening the industrial sector; emphasis has been placed on
assisting heavy and chemical industries and a substantial part has been
allocated to power projects. NIF lending is presently handled by the
commercial banks, the specialized banks and KDB with respective shares in
outstanding NIF loans of 18%, 16% and 66% at the end of 1979.
39.       The growth and development of the Korean financial system
has undoubtedly contributed to the country's economic success. However, the
rigidity of the directed lending system could well hamper it in responding
appropriately to the increasing complexity and sophistication of the Korean
economy. The Bank's most recent economic report concluded that the
restoration of high economic growth in the 1980s is contingent upon a number
of structural adjustments in the economy. These include streamlining the
financial system and the reshaping of those segments of the industrial sector
in which overinvestment and inefficiencies have surfaced. The Government has
begun to address the basic issues of industrial investment and financial



- 13 -
policies (cf. para. 33 above). It has announced its intention of effecting
a comprehensive reform of the financial system over the next few years with
emphasis on a liberalization of the operations of intermediaries, particularly
the commercial banks. A first step in this direction was taken in November
1979, with the enactment of the Long-Term Credit Bank Law which enables the
establishment of privately owned financial intermediaries specializing in term
lending and authorized to raise funds from the domestic market. KLTCB became
Korea's first long-term credit Bank in June 1980. Further, the Government
instituted a reform of the interest rate structure in January 1980. This move
was in keeping with the Government's overall policy of bringing interest rates
to a positive level in real terms.
40.        In late 1979, the Government requested the Bank to undertake a
review of the Korean financial system and prepare recommendations on
appropriate policy measures aimed at increasing its efficiency. This review
was completed in mid-1980 and the Government is in general agreement with the
analysis and conclusions. One of the major findings was that the control
exercised by the Government on individual financial institutions and on fund
allocation was too rigid and constrained their operational autonomy and
investment decision-making capability. For example, the Government
specifies interest rates which individual institutions can charge. One
result has been that interest spreads on money raised through the sale of
KDBs industrial finance debentures have in many cases been negative. This
and other anomalies arising from Government control over interest rate
spreads, as well as measures which have been agreed to deal with them, are
further detailed in paras. 46 and 47 below.
41.        Interest rate subsidies have had a number of negativre effects.
Firstly, access to cheap credit has resulted in project sponsors limiting
their equity contributions to individual schemes and thus helping to cause
the high level of indebtedness which characterizes Korea's corporate sector
rendering numerous firms financially fragile. The increased vulnerability
of the typical Korean enterprise can be gauged by the fact that average debt
equity ratios rose from 2.7:1 in 1973 to 3.6:1 in 1978. Secondly, they have
contributed to overinvestment in certain areas of manufacturing (see
discussion in paras. 33 and 36 above). Another recommendation flowing from
the financial sector review was that direct government intervention in
allocative decisions be reduced and that the availability of "subsidized/
directed" credit be confined to clearly defined priority areas of the
industrial sector; to this end, the NIF program (para. 38) should be scaled
down and fund allocation should be rationalized. The other source of
subsidized funds, the short-term export credit program, has a:Lso had too
broad a focus and would need to be reassessed in the context of Korea's
overall export promotion strategy (cf. para. 48 below).  Also, the
mobilization of domestic currency resources by financial institutions should
be encouraged through the maintenance of interest rates at positive real
levels. Other major recommendations relate to granting commercial banks
greater autonomy in their operation, placing more stress on term



- 14 -
tranformation of deposits and the internationalization of Korea's capital
markets. Understandings reached between the Bank and the Government on these
recommendations are discussed in para. 45-48.
The Bank-s Role in Korea's Financial Sector
42.       Four development finance institutions operate in the industrial
sector. The government-owned CNB and SMIB specialize in assisting the smaller
end of the industrial spectrum. Larger enterprises, with employment exceeding
300 persons and assets of more than W 500 million ($860,000) are eligible for
long-term financial support from KDB. The privately owned KLTCB has also
concentrated on assisting relatively large firms; unlike KDB, however, it was
not precluded from financing smaller borrowers and has done so in a few
instances. The Bank has made loans to all four development finance
institutions which, in aggregate, supplied over 50% of all loans with a
maturity of more than one year to the manufacturing sector in 1977-78. Bank
lending to smaller scale industries through SMIB and CNB was initiated in
1975 and 1980, respectively. Lending to larger-scale firms started in 1967
with the first Bank loan to KLTCB. KDB became a Bank borrower in 1975. Seven
Bank loans aggregating $320 million have been made to KLTCB and three loans
for a total of $252.5 million to KDB. Through its support of KDB and KLTCB,
the Bank has made a significant contribution to the growth of industry in
Korea and to the development of the financial system. All these projects
have been implemented well and have contributed to the growth of the
development banks into capable and mature institutions.
43.       The proposed operation is aimed at transcending the two major
objectives of the Bank's past lending to financial intermediaries in Korea -
resource-transfer and institution building. Simultaneous negotiation of the
KDB IV and KLTCB projects afforded the Bank an opportunity to reach a
common understanding with the Government regarding Korea's long-term strategy
for improving efficiency in the financial sector. The understandings
reached include a series of policy measures which are described in the
paragraphs below.
44.       The system of government-directed lending through NIF will be
reorganized and rationalized. The Government intends to thoroughly examine
and evaluate the NIF program. It intends to carry out no later than December
31, 1981, detailed industrial sector and subsector studies aimed at defining
priority areas for NIF lending. The Government will consult with the Bank on
the study's terms of reference and recommendations. The Government intends to
cease providing NIF resources to Korean commercial banks which lack the
requisite appraisal and implementation capacity to ensure efficient use of
these funds.  The Government has agreed to furnish by December 31, 1981 a
time-phased plan to achieve this objective by the end of 1984. KDB will
also establish within its present organizational set-up a special unit to
monitor the performance of NIF borrowers and to help conduct the NIF



- 15 -
study. The understandings reached on these matters are spelt out in Sections
3.03(a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement related to the proposed fourth loan
to KDB and in a Supplemental Letter to the Guarantee Agreement entitled
"Financial Sector Policy Improvements." These measures are expected to
increase the autonomy of the commercial banks in making investment decisions
and to enable the Government and KDB to implement a more limited and sharply
focused NIF program.
45.        Increased mobilization of long-term domestic currency resources by
financial intermediaries, including KDB and KLTCB, is to be encouraged. At
present the cost of issuing term debentures by KDB is too high to allow
onlending with a sufficient positive interest spread. It was agreed that the
lending rate for loans funded with such resources would be set at such a level
so as to allow a positive spread (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement
relating to the proposed fourth loan to KDB). This measu_e is expected to
enhance the resource mobilization capability of financial institutions and the
development of the capital markets in Korea. The Bank loan to KLTCB would
support this institution during the time when it will be initiating efforts to
mobilize domestic resources and to expand its local currency lending
(para. 64 below).
46.       Government policy regarding foreign exchange financing through
the specialized and development banks, to date, has required that foreign
loans from official sources to these intermediaries be onlent at a uniform
spread of 2%. Given the substantially divergent terms of foreign borrowings
from different sources, the result is that various subborrowers, from the
same institutions at the same time, ostensibly similar in essential
characteristics, obtain funds on different terms - albeit all more favorable
(exchange risk aside) than those for nonconcessional domestic credits. It
was agreed during negotiations that the lending rate applicable to foreign
currency loans funded with official borrowings would be rationalized by
imposing a 2% interest spread over the weighted average cost cf
official resources available to KDB and KLTCB for future lending (Schedule 3
to the Loan Agreement). This formula is expected to remedy the inconsis-
tencies in lending rates which prevail at present. Concurrently, the
interest spread currently authorized by the Government for onlending foreign
commercial resources which is much lower than 2% and is insufficient to cover
handling costs would also be the (2%) level allowed for foreign official
borrowings. This harmonization of interest spreads is expected to increase
the incentive for mobilization of foreign commercial borrowings.
47.        The availability of cheap subsidized credit has encouraged a high
dependence of Korean industries on debt financing which has resulted in a
high indebtedness of the corporate sector and a fragile financial structure
(cf. para. 40 above). In order to alleviate this problem and increase the
capitalization of industry, it was agreed during negotiations to limit access
to Bank funds to subborrowers with debt/equity ratios not in excess of 5:1
(Schedule 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
48.       Additional studies and analyses of selected financial sector
issues will also need to be carried out so as to form the basis of a
continuing dialogue on financial policies. The Government has agreed to
conduct a series of studies covering the following topics: (a) the
short-term export credit system in the context of Korea's export promotion
strategy; (b) the future role of commercial banks in the financial system,
which envisages allowing them increased autonomy in their operation and
stresses term transformation of deposits; and (c) the internationalization
of Korea's capital markets. Draft terms of reference for the studies are to
be prepared and submitted to the Bank for comments by June 30, 1981
(Supplemental Letter to the Guarantee Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Objectives
49.       In addition to providing a framework for reaching understandings
with the Government on the financial sector issues described in Part III,
the proposed loan would assist KLTCB in the initial phase of its conversion
into a larger multipurpose financial insitution. The institutional aspects
of the project were appraised in February 1979. In April 1979, a Bank
mission discussed with the Government the sectoral context and financial
policy measures which form an integral part of the proposed project.
50.       A Report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank" (No. 3115-KO dated November 20, 1980) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from October 20 to October 27, 1980 with
a Korean delegation led by by Mr. M.H. Sohn, Deputy Director General of the
Economic Cooperation Bureau of the Economic Planning Board.
The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
51.      Role Within the Financial System.  KLTCB remains, to date, the
only privately owned development finance company in Korea. Its clients are
at the lower end of the "large industry" spectrum. The range of financial
services which it provides to its clientele includes: (a) medium- and
long-term loans in foreign and domestic currencies; (b) equity investments;
(c) loan payment guarantees; and (d) consulting services. In practice, a
chronic shortage of domestic currency resources compelled KLTCB to operate
primarily as a relender of long-term foreign currency resources.



- 17 -
52.       Operations. Since its establishment in 1968, KLTCB has contributed
substantially to the transfer of resources to the industrial sector. Over
the period 1968-79, it has approved 513 projects with a total investment
cost of W 682 billion ($1.4 billion), of which it financed about 36%. At
end 1979, its outstanding portfolio amounted to W 185.3 billion ($382
million) spread over 273 client companies. In the period 1968--79, the
manufacturing sector accounted for 65.2% of its aggregate loan approvals with
the balance allocated to projects in the transportation, fishing and
agro-processing sectors. In response to the Government's strategy of
deepening the industrial structure, the share of heavy and chemical industries
in KLTCB's total lending to the manufacturing sector has increased from 53%
over 1968-74 to 76% over 1975-79. Foreign currency lending accounted for
95.4% of KLTCB's loan approvals over 1975-79. In 1979, KLTCB approved 96
projects for which it provided loans totalling W 63.7 billion ($131 million);
94% of this amount was in foreign currency.
53.       KLTCB's aggresive promotional activities and the high quality of its
appraisal work have resulted in the selection of projects with substantial
economic benefits. About one-third of KLTCB's loan approvals over the period
1975-79 were for projects exporting more than half of their output. The
average ERR for the projects financed under the most recent Bank loan to KLTCB
was 28.5% while the average FRR was 25%. Choice of technology and employment
impact are important considerations in KLTCB's selection of projects. The
projects approved for financing in 1979 are expected to create over 6,000 new
jobs. The average fixed investment per job created has been increasing
rapidly in recent years as a result of Korea's deepening industrial structure
and of the shift to technology intensive industries. This figure was $53,000
in respect of projects approved by KLTCB in 1979 and was not uLnduly high for
an institution which primarily lends to relatively large enterprises.
54.        Institutional Aspects.  KLTCB's success in evolving into one of the
most efficient DFCs with which the Bank is associated is due largely to the
exceptional quality of its management and staff. It has been able to combine
a rapid growth of operations (assets increased at an average rate of 43.5%
p.a. over 1968-79) with sound financial administration. Thoughtful forward
planning has led to successive and timely changes in KLTCB's organizational
set-up and, most notably, to its recent transformation into a long-term credit
bank. The high quality of KLTCB's staff is evident at all levels of the
organization. The President, a former President of the Korea Exchange Bank,
was appointed in 1978, at which time KLTCB's former President became
Chairman of the Board of Directors.



- 18 -
55.        KLTCB's internal guidelines and procedures governing project
appraisal and supervision, as well as procurement and disbursement, have
been kept under constant review and have been progressively improved to
their high present standards. Procurement is closely monitored. Competi-
tive tenders are required whenever international competitive bidding is not
suitable or when standardization requires purchase of equipment from a
particular supplier for standardization purposes is not required. Bank
lending to KLTCB has had a substantial impact on the strengthening of
KLTCB's procedures. The Project Performance Audit Report on the second loan
to KLTCB identified some minor shortcomings relating to: (a) the economic
analysis in appraisal work; (b) project follow up and supervision; and (c)
developmental activities. These shortcomings have since been remedied by
strengthening staff capability in these specific areas.
56.        The efficiency with which KLTCB conducts its operations is reflected
in the quality of its portfolio. Arrears of more than three months accounted
for 0.04% of the end-1979 portfolio and affected 0.2% of outstanding loans.
Reschedulings were as low as 0.8% of portfolio in 1979. Operational effi-
ciency is reflected in the low level of administrative expenses, which
declined from 1.3% of assets in 1975 to 0.9% in 1979. Net earnings have
remained at a satisfactory level in the past few years (1.8% of total assets
in 1979) and have allowed the distribution of sizeable cash dividends which,
in turn, made it easier for KLTCB to increase its share capital five-fold in
June 1980, as a prerequisite for its conversion into a long-term credit bank.
57.       KLTCB's developmental activities are impressive.  Apart from the
technical and managerial assistance routinely provided by development insti-
tutions, it has been particularly active in undertaking detailed studies of
selected industrial subsectors with a view to promoting investment opportuni-
ties. More importantly, KLTCB has contributed to the development of the
Korean financial system by promoting the establishment of several specialized
financial institutions. In 1972, it sponsored the establishment of Korea's
first short-term finance company. In 1974, it established (jointly with the
Korea Institute of Science and Technology) a company for promoting the
commercial exploitation of patents and new technical processes developed in
Korea. KLTCB also participated with IFC in forming a leasing company in
1975. Its co-financing arrangements with selected regional commercial banks
have helped improve the technical skills of the banking sector through regular
staff training.
58.       Resource Mobilization.  The scale of KLTCB's lending activities
has been a function of the availability of resources. This, in turn, has been
determined by its efforts to mobilize foreign currency. KLTCB has been fairly
successful in this regard; outstanding foreign currency borrowings have
grown at about 36% p.a. over the past three years. Until 1975, KLTCB relied
entirely on official sources of funds (ADB, IBRD, and KfW) for its foreign
currency resources. IFC was instrumental in introducing KLTCB to the foreign
capital market with a $17.8 million loan syndication in 1976. KLTCB raised,



- 19 -
on its own, $20 million in 1977, $30 million in 1978, and $50 million in
1979 from commercial sources abroad. This helped reduce KLTCB's reliance on
official borrowings which provided about 70% of its foreign currency
resources over the 1976-79 period. KLTCB expects to reduce its reliance on
official sources to about 50% in the 1980-82 period. Nevertheless, over the
next few years, KLTCB will need to resort to some borrowing from official
sources in order to offer loans of appropriate maturity to its clients.
About 80% (by amount) of the loans it approved in 1978-79 had maturities of
10-15 years, whereas its commercial borrowings have maturities of 7-10
years. At end-1979, KLTCB had uncommitted foreign currency resources of
$81.5 million while commitments are projected to reach $136 million for
1980.
59.       KLTCB has been much less successful in mobilizing domestic currency
resources.  Through end-1979, KLTCB had raised aggregat, domestic resources
of W 23.4 billion ($48 million) of which equity accounted for 76% (the
balance coming from a government loan obtained in 1967). This recourse to
equity financing, uncommon for a development finance institution was
due to KLTCB's previous legal status which debarred it from issuing debentures
or accepting deposits for onlending purposes. To remove this constraint and
expand the scope of its operations, KLTCB was converted into a long-term
credit bank in June 1980.
60.       Conversion into a Long-Term Credit Bank.  Despite KLTCB's impressive
record of operational growth and its substantial developmental impact over the
twelve-year period which followed its establishment, its share of the
financial sector's assets has remained at 0.4 - 0.5% over the past four years.
KLTCB-s share of total equipment financing from institutional sources has also
been stable at about 5-6%. The reason for this relatively slow growth lies
in KLTCB's limited involvement in long-term domestic currency lending.
61.       KLTCB's management foresaw, as early as 1975, the need to reassess
the institution's long-term strategy and its role in the financial system.
An internal study of alternative strategies was completed in 1978 with the
assistance of the Bank Group. The study was based on the premise that Korea's
increasing reliance on domestic savings to finance industrial investment
would severely constrict the future of an institution concentrating almost
exclusively on relending foreign exchange resources raised abroad. The
increasing capacity of Korean firms to supply capital goods of acceptable
quality at competitive prices was expected to increase the demand for domestic
currency term financing. Further, KLTCB also believed it was prudent to
prepare for declining levels of support from official sources, such as the
Bank, which believe that the institution should graudally reduce its
reliance on concessional funds. KLTCB's management concluded that the
institution's future lay in a more active role in the supply of domestic
currency resources. Accordingly KLTCB's legal status (as a corporation
governed by the commercial code) which precluded the issuance of instruments
of indebtedness for onlending purposes, had to be changed. The course of
action chosen by KLTCB was to convert itself into a multipurpose financial
institution broadly patterned after the Industrial Bank of Japan.



- 20 -
62.       While KLTCB's future was being scrutinized, the Government was
considering a reform of the Korean financial system which would enhance the
role of privately-owned entities. The Government was therefore receptive to
KLTCB-s suggestion to introduce legislation to enable the establishment of
private institutions specializing in term lending. The Long-Term Credit
Bank Law was enacted in December 1979. It permits private financial insti-
tutions to issue medium- and long-term debentures to finance domestic currency
lending operations. In order to qualify as a long-term credit bank, KLTCB
had to quintuple its paid-in share capital from W 10 billion to W 50 billion.
KLTCB successfully completed this task in May 1980. The Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank opened for business on June 2, 1980. A substantial diversifi-
cation and expansion of operations is expected to take place in the next few
years. The proposed Bank loan would support the initial phase of KLTCB's
operations as a new type of financial intermediary.
63.       Prospects and Resource Requirements.  In April 1980, KLTCB underwent
a reorganization of its departmental set-up in anticipation of its conversion
into a long-term credit bank. The increase in paid-in share capital brought
in sufficient resources to cover most of KLTCB's domestic currency require-
ments for 1980-81. Domestic currency debentures were issued in June-July
1980 for a total of W 10 billion. KLTCB plans to raise an aggregate amount
of W 220 million through debenture issues over 1980-84. Cumulative domestic
currency commitments during that period are projected at W 489 billion, or
49.6% of total commitments. Domestic currency lending is forecast to
increase dramatically from W 3.2 billion in 1979 to W 152 billion in 1984,
representing an average growth rate of 116% p.a.
64.       Foreign currency loan approvals are projected to grow at a moderate
pace of 10% p.a. KLTCB's cumulative foreign currency approvals are projected
at $862 million over 1980-84. To meet its forecast approvals, KLTCB expects
to mobilize a total of $840 million over 1980-84 of which $370 million
(including the proposed $90 million loan) would come from official sources and
the balance of $470 million (56%) from commercial sources. The projected
ratio of commercial to official borrowings would be 48:52 in 1980-82 and 66:34
in 1983-84. These targets are not unrealistic given KLTCB-s past record. The
proposed Bank loan of $90 million would cover approximately 28% of KLTCB-s
projected foreign currency commitments ($325 million) for 1981-82.
65.       KLTCB is expected to maintain its strong financial performance.  Its
return on total assets is projected to increase from 1.8% in 1979 to over 2%
throughout the projection period. The debt/equity ratio which declined to
4.3:1 in June 1980 following the increase in KLTCB-s share capital would
remain within the agreed limit of 10:1, reaching 7.9:1 by end-1984 (Section
4.06 of the Loan Agreement). The debt service cover would exceed 1.55
over 1980-84.



- 21 -
Main Features of the Loan
66.       As with previous Bank loans to KLTCB, the proposed loan would
finance (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods and
services and (b) 60% of the cost in domestic currency (representing the
estimated foreign exchange component) of locally manufactured or procured
machinery and equipment (Section 2.02(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement would be in accordance with KLTCB's standard procedures. While
the Bank is satisfied with the manner in which KLTCB has handled procurement
under previous Bank loans, KLTCB plans to modify its Policy Statement to
include a specific reference that it is KLTCB's intention to apply
International Competitive Bidding procedures whenever the size and nature of
procurement justify them. Further, KLTCB has stated that for all subloans
above the free limit ($5 million), its appraisal report would include a
section justifying the method of procurement to be followed if international
competitive bidding was not opted for. The long-term debt/equ:ity limit of
10:1 agreed with KLTCB is adequate and would be maintained. In view of the
most satisfactory standard of KLTCB's appraisal work, it is recommended that
the free limit on individual subloans which was set at $4 mill:ion under the
previous Bank loan be raised to $5 million (Section 2.02(b) of the Loan
Agreement). It is expected that this would result in the Bank reviewing
subprojects representing approximately 30% of the total loan amount.
67.       The proposed loan would have an adjustable composite amortization
schedule reflecting the aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans made
by KLTCB. Individual subloans would have a maximum maturity of 13 years
including a grace period of three years. In order to encourage increased
mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial borrowings by K]LTCB, the Bank
would allow some of the subloans to be funded with a mix of Bank and commer-
cial resources. In such cases, the amortization schedules of such subloans
would permit earlier repayment of commercial funds with the proceeds of the
Bank loan being covered under the later maturities. A grace period of up to
five years would be accepted in such cases. KLTCB's financial assistance
would be limited to enterprises whose total debt (including the proposed
subloan) would not be greater than 5 times its equity, thus contributing to
the strengthening of the financial structure of Korean industry (Schedule 3
to the Loan Agreement). KLTCB would relend the loan proceeds at an interest
rate of two percentage points over the weighted average cost of foreign
official resources available to KLTCB with the foreign exchange risk borne
by the subborrowers. This formula is expected to result in an onlending
rate of about 11%. The 2% interest spread is adequate for KLTCB to cover
the administrative costs incurred in processing its foreign exchange loans
and to derive a satisfactory profit margin. Over the period 1972-80, the
average depreciation of the Won vis-a-vis the US dollar has added a cost of
about 6.5% p.a. to the nominal cost to the subborrowers of Bank funds.
Furthermore, the Bank's practice of disbursing a mix of dollars and other
foreign currencies has added an average cost of 5.3% p.a. to previous Bank
loans depending on the share of "hard" currencies. Even with the
introduction of the currency pooling system (assuming that past trends in
foreign exchange fluctuations continue) the onlending rate of Bank funds is



- 22 -
expected to reach an effective level of over 20% p.a. in Won terms. This
rate is above the long-term inflation rate in Korea which was approximately
15% per annum during the period 1970-79. KLTCB-s onlending rate is below
the inflation level which has obtained so far in 1980 (the Wholesale Price
Index is expected to rise by 40%). However, the Government has adopted a
series of measures to contain inflation.  If, as is expected, the rate of
price increase returns to near the historical levels, KLTCB-s onlending
rates for both domestic and foreign currency would be positive in real
terms.
Benefits and Risks
68.        KLTCB has proved to be a remarkably efficient intermediary for
allocating funds, including Bank resources, to Korea-s key industrial sector.
Through KLTCB, Bank resources totalling $314.2 million on a commitment basis
had been allocated as of end-July 1980, to 350 economically and financially
viable projects in the manufacturing, agro-industry, transportation and
fishery sectors. The continued growth of exports at about 12% p.a. (in real
terms) is crucial for the recovery of the Korean economy. The further ex-
pansion of the export-oriented industrial sector therefore remains a key
objective of the Government's development strategy. KLTCB is contributing
to this objective by supporting projects which are generally heavily
export-oriented. Its conversion into a multipurpose financial institution
is expected to expand its role in mobilizing domestic resources and
supplying finance for industry. KLTCB has contributed to this objective by
supporting projects which are generally heavily export-oriented.
69.        The proposed loan is expected to have a beneficial impact on the
financial sector as a whole through the adoption of policy measures which
were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations (paras. 45-49 above).
To the extent that DFC projects are quick disbursing, the loan would also
contribute to meeting the heavy balance of payments deficits expected over
the next few years.  The proposed loan is also expected to have a beneficial
impact on the financial sector as a whole through the adoption of policy
measures which were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations (paras.
45-48 above).
70.       The proposed loan would directly support the reform of the Korean
financial system by strengthening the operational capability of a new type
of financial intermediary operating outside the Government-s system of
directed lending. The sectoral objectives of the loan would therefore
complement those of the proposed Bank loan to KDB which supports a reorgani-
zation of the government credit system. This dual approach is expected to
result in an increased flow of long-term resources for industry and greater
efficiency in fund allocation.
71.       Experience with previous Bank loans shows that the projects
financed by KLTCB yielded substantial economic benefits with economic rates of
return ranging from 16% to 37.7%.  The subprojects to be financed by KLTCB



- 23 -
under the proposed loan are expected to yield similar economic benefits.
Based on the average cost per job of the projects recently financed by KLTCB,
the proposed loan would help create approximately 5,000 jobs. There are no
unusual risks associated with the implementation of the project. Although
the full impact of the financial sector reforms cannot be fully assessed in
advance, significantly positive effects are expected on resource allocation
and on investment efficiency. These effects will be monitored closely by
Bank staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea
and the Bank, and a supplemental letter thereto (entitled "Financial
Sector Policy Improvements"), and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III, Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
December 1, 1980



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                      Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV9AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MQST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             98.5
AGRICULTURAL      22.7                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 7b ESTIMATE 7b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  160.0       380.0    1160.0                  894.8                 1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     258.0       815.0    1359.0                  842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     24.7         31.4      36.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7         40.7      52.1                   39.1                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       50.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         66.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      251.0        319.0     372.0                 376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0       1371.0    1612.0                2350.4                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.9         41.0      35.9                  40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        55.7       60.3                  56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3          3.3       3.8                    3.4                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4       1.9                    2.4                    2.7
URBAN                              5.9          6.5       5.2                    4.1                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0        30.0      21.0                   28.7                   34.8
CRUD1 DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0        10.0       8.0                    7.9                    8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.ls       2.6       1.4                    1.9                    2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          42.0      43.9                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0         99.0     115.0                  116.9                  106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        110.0     119.0                  108.9                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0         65.0      73.0                  60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         7.0         8.0      15.0                   18.8                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0         8.0       5.0                    5.3                    8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0         59.0      63.0                   63.0                   63.1
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           62.0         43.0      37.0                   52.8                   66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PO PULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         58.0      62.0                   42.4                   65.9
URBAN                               ..         84.0      80.0                   62.1                   80.4
RURAL                                ..        38.0      36.0                   29.7                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         25.0      61.0                   52.8                   62.3
URBAN                               ..         59.0      68.0                   71.1                   79.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0                   42.4                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0       2110.0    1955.0                 4120.1                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3220.0/d    2170.0/d   510.0                 2213.6                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2482.0       1900.0    1569.0                  819.4                  480.3
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        14.9        *.                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6          5.3       5.1
URBAN                              5.4          5.0       4.9
RURAL                              5.6          5.5       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5          2.3       2.0
LRBAN                              2.8          2.7       2.1
RURAL                              2.4          2.2       2.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.0        49.9
URBAN                             67.3         92.4        ..
RURAL                              12.0        29.9      64.9



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)a
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 94.0        105.0     111.0                   98.6                     99.7
MALE                  99.0       106.0      111.0                   99.2                    101.0
FEMALE                89.0       105.0      111.0                   97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0         43.0      88.0                   55.5                     34.4
MALE                  38.0        52.0       96.0                   60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                14.0        34.0       78.0                   49.9                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.0          16.0      16.0                   13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         57.0      49.0                   34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                          34.0         37.0      38.0                   28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6        87.0      93.0                   85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          2.0       3.5                    9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         32.0        131.0     144.0                  118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3         14.0      66.0                   39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        138.0     173.0                     ..                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           5.0       2.2                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8237.0      10978.3   13767.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   25.8         32.7      33.0                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.4         51.0      41.0                   51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.3         20.1      37.0                   21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.4         35.0      36.6                   39.1                     31.5
MALE                                 49.5         46.8      48.8                   48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                               17.2         23.0      24.2                   29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.4       1.1                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1Ie        17.1      16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3/e        44.5      45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7/e         7.1       5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e        17.7      16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     320.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     270.0                  192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PEE CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     270.0/f                   ..                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     227.0/f                182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      18.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      11.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country; /e 1965., /f Recent estimates are $370 and
$310 respectively.
April, 1980



- 26 -                                                                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEPINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data at  drn from  souce   generaly judged the mos  aotholtatln  and reliable, ito nh-ld alto  be noted that they nay notbl ha tte-
nationaly r-naraleb he..os  of the Lok  f  _,elatidhee                        d         ...o.ios   o   poten   used by diffe--a  ....tote   It  -1ihetog the data. -The data are,noe
theese, aetful En de-rlho  irotsegotl,ldit-t  trends, sod ohtrottertom                              .. Ieto   major duffrec . betwee  oouo  Sea
T he-ooet    rssae                h   aeouoy   rsafteth  o  ceonty and (2) atauttry  ro-p wool se..eehat higher anoran   itorom   than  the  -tasry gr-p
at  heas  en  atety(atot lt       piattal lSrpl-e 051 Tartre  grop rOo    `Mtiddle Toos  North Afrira and Mtiddle iae" is   h-t  -aet-s  of oteonfer
snt-unrt   afftn, t   tbee. i Inillil-1  the ra,foe--  gopdata tOe enerege  ar  PaPoacten  -ilgltd   rth-tneir  et  for eat ,,dioa....ra.d eh-a  soy whet at
deaodsotnfaa.csia.nshedrtadn-eatmaof0e    fneot"Itmaooe.                                                                 hooorsesrolrefootorotohenu
e    ite   edoao   a        iatnee `n the-tt-ou9ttey  nodt refd erento groap....
Teta1 - lotal e-fo    rararpaioiog load artaaol a               an   atr.dttotdi-fld   osa  afrlshola   bmina.-t  total.                                                         g  hy
Astitlmstl -   ttsae  ofagrioltual  re    sd  -onoreo-   or rereete-ly                FomJalagmfrtosa    esn                tpln         dinided by nushe  ef prs-itiog
Ier orope,ysre,p.      sahr  o           h..oe  garde-  or to lie  fahlaa; 1901 data            male amd female graduate  oss  p-ait-1t,r--, and oaJtst..n  ..o..
iNP PER APTITh (           G0) P ltPo  t osita  -stiato-  at u-r-et eaket peiret, oat-             PooaI..e.aofa   e                   atl   tan             sa b- fahpola-o  brada
-alated by sm   oaonreto  e_td as Arid   aol At1as  (1906-78 hostel; 1960,                         ao.eialel  On poblic and pritnan   gener al and spertaieed hospitl1 aedre
I9Oi, nod 1978 dat.-                                                                               hehilint.ton  reter.  HAeytnale at  esabltthsmeets Petmnetly etapged
tar  ar 1st  erudd.  Rare.l hspitns. h.           eet   in,lejde health sad  -ediIa
sad lignite,peeio,ntural  gee god hydr-, mot1arat  gotera  slt                                      esr   o   eraetpsaFdbyapytlefa h                             y    efa    so tant
tototay)   kinhlograms. to  -oa1 oquinalesyt  tar -ita; 1906, 1970, and 1900                       mos,miwf,t.    hto                ffertmpatient ...as.datien  eel pro-idSe
data.                                                                                              itotlnd raeo   el              eoio           .Fo  ettiettoa1 psep.... -rhas hespi-
POPFUATION Aol VITAL. STATISIhCS                                                                      nonlrue.O.ritplgnrlad spooated  htepttal.  o  rura
Tat-   Pputna       M gd-lea    (eltnl- As of Joly 1; 1960, 1970, am1 1900                       uAosso-e-  pee nasostal ted   T.ftal nosIe  af tdmtssan    o e  disaharges
dranPosttln ieteos of sl alb-..         Ino  otbety so-bmotel       b daoltlos:si
amegnatrisa; 19Sf, 191Q, and 00 dn.ueaga..  Siee ef HO-as.1ad (perst-  ret hsose.hold) - total. orhe.,ad !mIl
Perolettee feajoosoana                                                    ~~A hau..ehoId o..sists of a grepa   eitol    h   hare lintig qSStee
PF atsiets,ya  2000 - Correst poysialtia.pajtt bt se  esd as logo                                anhhf.aemas       badro   egssyormtesh   elddO
snee1 pepu,latien  by age gad se  and their nerslt imyal te IIt toy rae,                      the hb...ebhld tafsatetolparyse..
_Pejeotto      y p aatnrsfr bi air  aestsyie   lsh--lmiseso-oeoo  ohe   t  e-sspe   oe     ttl.ota.so   ar--   eAg  sm
log lOPe sayersasty  an birth  isoteatte~~_g with  _to__y'sye   oy I_ tse            tr Of b. f050    e   ot.i   i   ea,adrrlotyetaetea
lee,ndfemal   ofe e-Petasty stahiliatgi         t  1.  year.7     Th  tara             dbeliftpugs1,.rsetptoey. Nellog   ttld                    na-prann  st-rArss      an
seger  for  ersolmy rae  als  ban   thtEdni  atatgdtlt.o nrryo   prs
ertty ccoeltg  to  ooolrlao   ettsl DIanoaIperfoate.-                               uAoe-  to    , fetritt   (porent ofd dwelling)-tnl   rbn   n   oe
Eah  oury is thenasIge   00 f thes  time c-man-e-  of e-talloy
Otattm jrty tL_oslor        l Imsrtotr '1pooito-         bo   t  ogrohelt                     f tonal, obu-, and'rota! dwellings            P repotoely.
the hotel  tam   in equsl 1c the dbait  ete, aod also  tr ag latc tar           Et-         UCAiTION
aanrooao.Tbos In art eve  at1y afoot frtll ty rates de-Ote t                                Adjummed inr. iee.       ro
setlaeet lenI at ..et sno   -epr-d-tso     rat,  he-       har Igieadlo               Primryc10           C- taai  mete and _femit- Gr.as  ntal, male and femle
af cane  teplates it-elfoatl.The start...ayoarn              .. ooasa  ste  was                  -sroimean   f ali Ages at the primary inte  as pe-eanges of r-pero-
-sttuted no ohs hosts of the  tj oraed caarrtsc    f athoroata                                   rrt.oar  sohar-age              ..pi .so ; narmal  i-rladee   htildte  aged 6-il
to the year 2000, and the rabte  fde_o_  of fonttiriy rte. to teylat.-                           yeas lty a-h     tdfa         Festlnth    tpimr   drats   a
meat lOrel.                                                             rowenries~~~~~~~~.  b eSel,,. untr-  edoraiat  enrollmen  maiy eaed   li t  yere
eatoeaatopoPlastais. to ath~ - Tie yarcher. smar.o.osy populatloitr.aepulsoehl.aranenh   f tti_                                                      sh_a  IgeO
sehas lees resold.                                                                          Ooeanoho-uni,sladfmle- Caspstedaoa boe;seadr
Pet  n.  a.     Mo-yea  ponlatomretsquae biomter0100berare) o              edtatoereqoOres  sot' least foot yera eappramed peisory tsroie
t-etal          i--    ~~.i-p     q.t   i-                       (0   - area.    pfr                         gn.... geeallt.nttiona, os teether. retotoig Oortttefee pnpiR
Fee- es.o...oiot   oll optlasaoetocarrloalln                                                       osly of 12 so 10 fesr  af age; tortepasend                ause  at  geo.r-11Y
PPaysinntn  Age Sttrsrtor   (rero-t) - Choildre  (0-iA  year), oololeg-age  (15-                      itulode  t.Fehirlleore, or  the   prgr-    slOt atPeeteSde
64 years).-sS retitrd (h5 year  an-d autdspetaae   o   o-a    os                                    etlyota  deyartnt-           o   eneayisesutos
loIon; 1I0,17, sad 1978 data.                                                                                                                                      d:P-ere   et      rmay   n   eodr      asa   tleseroldO
P.polani- G-th Rl.St  (peter)    tta   - eAmal1 geotb ah               s f teta1 nil-                 yrimr  aedme dmr  tenet  dooJdel by  -b-es  of t-arer  ie the
fe   saltaefot 190i,1960-70, and 197 0-8.                                                 o-rre-yaelies le-eta
Pepolaint Grwth Aue (reonet)- cohar. - AenoI gronb  -tase   t amen pOpO-                  Ada1tls  tgsrso   raeieo         ) - Lit-teraedales  iabl  ta red end  rteel
antoe.. for1950-hi. 1960-TO, sad 1970-78g..esayer-o-ag   of total. adult yepulltie  aged 15 rests and  -mr.
Trade BiOmh Pate feet theosa..) d- Ansoa. In lI ittle pen th-t-do of mod-year
poysloetan.; 1960, 19700, and1909 dat.                                                      COONSUMTION
C_ale Neah Ste (ret" thboosed) -  noAt..1  deaths yer thoosnd of sd-ye..                         P....eaget fats fear th,o!asod onoo1ati-) -Peseenget rats roaprte sat.r
ppimo;1960, 1910'. at, 1519data,                                                          tart sea.ielestaeihpres; aiueasones h aead
bf hte-coetoot len teai        lrat.te   fesiolfsl prdI pi-a, rie  prga.                         asOne.t;lt.frrro   easmyttb                                 toprat s-In-  most j
Pat!   latan-ler (1res  fsatadn                      As)- Perteoageofnr-                            uooearteeatoipahedh .....ag
ermen of  hOldl-eaielg ago (15-44 year) oho.s  bieth--oiroldoior   to                           TRriesIetoso.osaim    TV! nee. ee.                             fr.redIse
al   arid  aesI  san  ag  grds.                                                                  geesa   oshp o  pe  shooshol   passnn; e-otdes-ot tessS -               5 rretess
praluotom ot  ll Ooo  oammrttlrs. reoduttooescllta-sed aol  eed-ao
55o  rtmarro  lss    tmolhe   otrprdt  goas  e.g   sgarat                                        s  ha "daily" Of oapp-ar  at lestfsttOe.aani
osealofescrt   btb oe  dIl   and  ..aal  nor                  -9s (.g    offe atod       CineaAtutAtear    e  Cpt   e   ertsdn   h   ab-e  af
te ree  loded) .  Aggregate pr-d-ot- of eech rusnty Itlsd15ahn     l   otaters. ti.ldtm   dosae to  rOn-at
-a1aa   -oerage tradotrptr-        eth       1961-65, 1970, and 1970 deta.                    aed methile se,its.      1
for r-itta. tl   fCrlre    tren  Oroteet) -Copodfl..toes
ereey eqlniea o.,f net Ool  -oyplie-  o-ilablte it --oty pet .oPit.a                    LAgOt FOREt
pee  day   Anatlabll  sopplitl  tee prti -lane-nt  prd-ti.tsa     inyorts lent               Taal LabHr Iotte (eooards) -Et-eottO11y amtine Pere-, iotolding
esparten   . nn hlage-  i. stool.  Net suypli-s  -tldl  aetno  feed,  seds,                    armd f.t.tao  aeploye  but es_lsdtegh a                 iseetnes,det lesa   eto.
qo...oistea usd to fool prt-es 10..andy losses to ditsurt~l-a   teqeitto-                      1etttos  ntatosh              utimaestrmasi;16,10   n
ness  er  er atd hr rAtI hoe,    t   hyt-otrlned   o  a a    rtti-                      1916 Into.
itOy aol heath oo-oitorin, motmena    emeaur,bdy etoghts, age                                 raefereo             Femal  tela  tortef..  as.pe-tsge at  -ant Lahoe forte.
and see 15.strihot  of  oytaIo, and allotting ID  ert   o    ate0                             giunr p.oettees)  - t.1     ahob   orea  tasteg   f__ecf,  sot ad
Ptoehol lve; 1961-65. 1970, oaf 1907 dana.                                                      fnnhir~ as yerre.mage o ~tonal lehee frto_; 1960, 1970'sal 1978 data.
te   aps  500pm    feout    nto,    day)  P- Paet   oeto  ytoPit                          lodu--y (p-rtee) - Lbla   foe-  So minting,tonera,mafrsrg
set suppy of fool yet day.  Net  -upply of fool ta dti-d an shone,   to-                       a-dolretiy,rter and gasas peeF eeage..                   natalisharfaee         960,
qatmese.rs for alI ou_st,as    rh       bsydh  lOlA  -oonid  for stItmur                       1170 and 1976 doss.
alloan-  of 60 gram  of sntt Pl prteinPerdoy aol 20 g--sa   mn1ac                             asrona   ae  peet                   oa   mat, ad    sal- Pamtlipat ra  or
puls  Fteotil, of slith It frame ahoold he  stol rrtl-e.T. Ilee soo-                           anoyrteoersyulsutlme,ndfaLe  abot farosa
oIdar -toner uho. eba-  of 75 Arose.of rosa!t.  ottItit  n              grams toprotgso   au,reealfsl                                          oatn  tatoe   epriey
for  he  rrO,  popoed  y Pt I  rte TtrI       1960, t970, aol 1975 lat.  Thes  are Old's parotoiparto   rats. efeein
Iold- rood  uetey;. 1911      j-h,17  aol 0177 dat.pp-         yFAi.h   TJda                                                                                  ti.8        l:        "
fetaptt  tro _ei  nuorlytro   emt  o   ca9-tostsspl                           odI- nge-ma sersture    tshe ypolas.i-s. ad log tOre _tred.  A fea estt
tOte   fomasol   and  pulse  to . irons pe  lado;19-6. 97  aol 197  dt,                          aa  ar  fomnasEoroe.t.b                    p,1t.   dl5a.65.d-
Child (ages 1-u) M-oenl,ruatejysload   .lta  leatl  yet toom   0                                 Omot   eelnyfto-rsso   oootnule1   e   0eds
orges data dartoed fro  Iitf  cables; tI96D, 1970 tad 1970 data.                             INCOMEC 1ISTRIBITI1NR5id0ytih
Cite Eontnna   te   (o l - tAeage nothe  o,f years of ttf~te                    -aeoitg               yerhre..fttstlyrch.oter   0trondsaortsOets
et hbsut,  1960, 1970 aol 1978 lost,afhusbts
Lbtoet Motaloty oatrj(peeth-aand  - Aosc-1 deahs of tufatmo  coderor  y-o    PcVERTY TARGET IRlffS
of age pot rhbou..ed tine  c,tsh-s.                                                            tc-i-d uto        -tttreo   Intone -11 (enel ,lull  rtraoiue    -b-la  endy-1aO-
uAt..stttfotr(oterfoo                        -rof-stl    tP nd                  a-uslu    y...r. tooirme lan1 is tOot, i_rsm   loort beo                                 hilaet
Nuoher 01 reotl, (total   -rbs-, alrti  cOt  .a..o.... "              tent    aittonaly ulequa-   diet piusesl                                 ta-arfo --qtrien1   In to
se  spllU    ttotlulad  treated....   ate..  e.er  or u -treoso         ... hourt-omntd        aftrdablo.
rareIr s'ot antha  from  rrtcted borbote-, ston..ao   -atasnr   el)0                             sloa   ratePnrylom    ee   10nrtrsa       ra   n   a
fotaucttatdrone . oted mo  o-e  hot 210'ssr   frmohos   a  te                              peaa   om    f the roontry.  bIas1  lnel in drIned  tos   h. rurl1
resm t   -c-s  atol  osyly  shot  hth  housialfe or nem_re  of the broseho
It no  lv   O       -sed a dityrp-O-i--t  put  ofthe day tol f-hitoa   the                      lolao    osatsObsAait   oet   nae  eo   rret      r
toal -ub-r of pope-         oal   ror,  o a     ud    )seodb  eatoto
Ittysalas  ororrago  o  tltt  oapotlc   pootatct.   tcrss>--tosouE oadSotual Dana lintnioe
P-aiocrc tleheooeot                      dmadirpoltcc..tretttbEoolrmayoad ptttj-tttoose...rtee..m
of   sonnrsvottor-at-tocto-uteb,tno                             rho coAP  pei. 1 960
oI  pIotadsIla                uotrn.



27
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPIIENT DATA SHEET
Actual IC                                                  Proiected            Growth raLes (X)
1965      1970      1972        1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980    1965-75  1978  1978-80
A. National Accounts
(14illion US0 at
1975 prices)
1. GDP                 6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8  25,769.0  28,688.0  31,324.0  33,938.0   10.7    11.3    8.7
2. Gains from TOT        140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4        348.7          -   1,160.5   1,511.0   1,685.0   1,350.0   1,337.0            -        -      -
3. Gross domestic
income            7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4  27,280.0  30,373.0  32,674.0  35,275.0   10.4    11.3    7.7
4. Ipyocta (goods
and NFS)             984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0  11,723.0  15,138.0  16,077.0  16,636.0   22.5    29.1    4.9
5. Exports volune        388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,301.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6  10,210.0  11,994.0  12,294.0  12,827.0   30.7    17.5    3.4
6, Exports
(adjusted
for TOT)             528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   5,678.6   9,290.1  11,721.0  13,978.0  13,644.0  16,,164.0   26.1    19.2    0.6
7. Resource gap
(adjusted
for TOI)             455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0        666.0   2,136.8   1,785.4       389.9         2.0   1,160.0   2,433.0   i,472.0         -        -       -
8. Total
consuaption       6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4  19,187.0  21,299.0  23,006.0  24,616.0    8.3    11.0    7.5
9. Investment            917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,Z75.9   5,070.2   5,120.6   5,874.4   7,975.0  10, 841.0  15,900.0  12 !852.0   18.8    35.9    8.8
10. Domestic savings
(adjusted for
TOT)                 206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   3,708.1   6,569.9   8,093.0   9,373.0   9,668.0  11),659.0   33.6    15.8    7.4
11. GDP at current
US$                2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  19,089.2  25,369.5  35,375.0  47,582.0  60,488.0  72,633.0   20.7    34.5   23.9
8. Sector Outout
(Share of GDP at
1975 prices)
1. Agriculture,
forestry
and fishneics         46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1       25.3       24.9       23.6       22.2       19.1       19.6       19.1      -        -       -
2. Mining and
manufacturing         13.9       20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2       29.2       31.8       30.6       32.9       31.9       32.0      -        -       -
3. Other                  39.8       46.7       47.4       47.8       46.5       45.9       44.5       47.2       48.0       48.5       48.9       -        -      -
C. Prices (1975-100)
1. Export price
indes La              57.7       67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9      100.0      111.7     120.7       132.9     154.1      167.7       -        -       -
2. Iport price
index /a              46.3       46.2       46.8      62.5        97.2      100.0       98.0     105.2       114.0     138.8      151.9       -        -       -
3. Term  of trade
index                124.6      145.9      143.8      L36.3     111.0       100.0      114.0      114.8      116.5     111.0      110.4       -        -       -
4. GOP deflator           43.2       70.6       71.0       76.8       95.7      100.0      115.6      137.3      165.9      193.1      214.0       -        -      -
5. Average exchange
rate                 266.2      310.4      394.0      398.5     406.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0       -        -       -
D. Selected Indicators   1965-75  1977-80              E.    .                                                     Actual
1. icog                   2.39       3.75                                                   1960       1970       1975       1977       1978
2. Itport elasticity    2.10         1.08              1. Labor force (million)              8.9       10.2       12.3       13.4       13.9
3. Average domestic                                    2. Unemployment (2 of E.1)            7.9        4.9        4.1        3.8        3.2
savings rate          0.15       0.31             3. Employment (million)                8.2        9.7       11.8       12.9       13.5
4. Marginal doLestic                                   (I shaces)                          100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
savings rate          0.29       0.25             3.1 Agricolture, forestry,
5. Iom,rts/GDP            0.36       0.49                   fisheries                       58.6       50.5       45.9       41.8       38.4
6. Investment/GDP         0.25       0.36              3.2 Mining and maaufacturing         10.4       14.3       19.1       22.4       28.5
7. Resource gap,GDY       0.11       0.05              3.3 Other                            31.0       35.2       35.0       35.8       33.1
F. Public Finance /b         1972      1973       1974       1975       1976      1977/d
(% of GDP)
1. Current revenue        17.8       16.9       18.3       20.3       22.9       22.7
1.1 Tao revenue           13.5       13.2       15.0       16.8       18.9       18.9
2. Current
expenditure           14.2       11.6       12.4       14.4       14.3       15.7
2.1 Defense
expenditures          4.5        3.7        4.4        4.8        5.7        6.3
3. Goveront
saving                 3.5        5.3        5.0        5.8        8.5        7.0
4. Capital
expenditure /c        11.3        8.7        8.0        8.3       12.7       10.5
/a  Data for 1965-76 refer to merchandise trade only, 1977-80 data include merchandise and noifacror services.
/b  Reoers to the Government Sector, cocprisig Central Government (including government enterprises), Local Government and Special Accounts.
/c  Befers to total capital expendites, less repayment of debts.
/d Budget estimates.
le  Data for 1977 and 1978 are based on revised National Accounts (BOf, August 1979); details of the revised historical series for 1965-76 wore not
avaiiable at this tire.
November 29, 1979



-   28   -                                                           ANNEX  o
Pa.g. 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAY?MENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
70 million at corrent prices)
Actual                                                Pr-lecie-
1969    1970     1971    1972   1973       1974     1975     1976     1977      1978     1979     1980
A. So-omarY af lacc co Payrents
1. Exporto fnc,. NFS)                                        998  1,221   1,478  2,075  3,962    5,125    5,679    9,111  12,328   15,940  18,942   21,512
2. Importo  foci,. NFS)                                    1,880  2,064    2,490  2,577  4,368    7,209    7,464    9,493   12,329   17,264  22,321   25,267
3. Resource balance                                         -882   -843  -1,012    -502   -406  -2,084  -1,785    -382               -1  -1,324  -3,379  -3,755
4. N I   -ccur scrvicc iocore
(l) Not iotran   pay-ents                                   2    -29       -91   -138   -166       -229     -399      -411     -479     -702     -790      -997
of uhich int-rest on pbhlc NMLT loan                -47     -68      -89   -120   -150       -201      -290     -345     -437      -653  -1,065  -1,374
(2) Direct in.. nst-et inco=e                             -6       -8        -      -2       1       -8        -5      -37      -63      -80       -65      -46
(3) Work-rs' re-ittat     s (n-t)                           -       -        -       -       -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -
(4) Othes  factor service income (net)                     91      77       84     101      72        74       76      167      332      549       787      916
5. C. rre-t tronsfero (net)                                  246     180      171     17C      190      224      226      349       223      472      SOO      600
6. Balance  on currant account                              -549   -623    -848   -371   -309  -2.023  -1.887    -314                12  -1,085  -2.947  -3,282
7. Peivate direct investm-nt                                  16      65       43       74     137      104       53        76      104      101      110       125
8. Officlal capitol grants                                   150     131       84       87      61       64        -         -        -        -         -        -
Public 9 & LI Loaoc
9. Olo-oroneenct                                            660      414      625     735     757    1,155    1,687    1,701    2,212    3,919    4,965    5,275
10. sasursi cationi                                           109    205       215     289     334       391      368      494       720   1,142    1,500    1,700
1i. Nst utcho rocoo551    209                                                  410    446       423      764   1,319    1,207    1,492    2,777    3,465    3,575
Other M & LT Loans
12. Di0b1crosemnts                                             17      78       33      49       71      174       85      115        46        -        -         -
13.   ortizatio                                                 3       8        15      10      15       23       28       105       71       97       75        72
i4. Noc oioharocooooo                                          14      70        23      39      56      151       57        10      -25      -97      -75      -72
15. Usc of IMF reto-rr-  /1b                                    -    -10        -8    -10         -      132      130        97     -25        -2        -         -
16. Short-torn capital transactions                            57     122      135    -19       82       -45      680      357        21  -1,171       400      500
17. Capital tr-osactitn.  NEI /c                              -78      71      112    -87   -110         868      141      -14    -233        108       70       154
18. Cha-ge i   reservs (- = increase)                        -161     -35        49   -159    -340       -15    -493  -1,419  -1,346         -631   -1,023  -1,000
19. Foreign oxch-ongererves  /n (and of period)               949    584       535     69'   1,034    1,049    1,542    2,961    4,307    4,938    5,961    6,961
0. Grant and L.oan Comitneots
1. official groat                                            150     131       84      87      61        64        -        -         -        -
2. Total poblic M & LT codes                                 753    475       689     813  1,073    1,972    1,304    3,613    3,304    5,014
(I) 1BRD                                                  65      40        85      73    150        85   382.5        372      335      659
(2) [DA                                                    15     15         7      26      20        -  -               -        _        -
(3) otheo   muitilatera  /f                               25       20       81      68      46       89    101.5       114      135       50
(4) Governments /g                                       102     161       255     479     383      477      360       917      406    1,190
Of  ohih ce-trally plannede        -i                -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -         -        -
(5) Suppli-rs                                            374     134       248      94    223       486      232       689    1,144    1,027
(6) Finaocial i-otituti-o                                144      104       13      73    240       737       193   1,448    1,216    1,966
(7) Bonds                                                   -       -        -       -       -       19         -       60       68      122
(8) Public Ilano NEI /h                                   28        1        -       -      11       79        34        -        -         -
3. Other M & LT Ions  i                                      100      26       67       74    213       120      138       97        16        -
Dnbt ana Dolt Soei-ces
Public debt ostseatdis g & dibsursed (cod of period)                                2,691   3,199    3,982    5,277    6,659   8,472    11,992
In -erest as pnblic dobt                                                              120      150      201      290      389      437        653
Repaynenst  on public oebt                                                             289     334      391      368       504      717     1,142
Total puOlic aebt service                                                             409    484        592      658      893    1,154      1,795
Other debt service  (tnt)                                                               23      33       54       60      103       125       140
Total dhet service  (net)                                                             432      517      646      718      996   1,279       1,935
Bordas as Export EarnInis (2)
Public dabt -r-ilce                                                                  19.7   12.2       11.6     11.6      9.8       9.2      11.3
Total aebt service                                                                   20.8   13.1       12.6     12.6     10.9    10.2        12.1
TDS + Direct Invest. lnc.                                                            20.7   13.1       12.4     12.6      11.3    10.7       12.6
Aeroagc Teens on Public Debt
Intercst 40 Z prior year D0&D                                                         5.3     5.6      6.3       7.6      8.2      7.3        7.7
AO-rtlaatlo  do ti   pricr year DOD                                                  12.9   12.4      12.2      9.2      10.9     11.9      13.5
IBRD debt outstanding 4 disbursed                                                      94.7  139.8   223.8   403.5   659.0   835.1   1,123.2
lORD as 2 public debt O04                                                                3.5    4.4       5.6      7.7       9.9      9.9       9.4
IBRD as % public debt aeroice                                                            1.7    2.5       3.3      4.9      5.7       6.7       6.4
IDA aebt outstaeding  & disbarsed                                                      47.1   58.5       78.3     92.7    102.4   111.1       114.4
IDA aa 7 phblic debt 04D                                                                 1.8     1.8      2.0      1.8       1.5      1.3       1.0
IDAs -2 public delbt srvce                                                               0.1    0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
Ect-r-al Debt (Disbursed Onil) Outstan-ding Dcenber 31. 1978    Aount c
1. IBRD                                                                1,123.2        9.4
2. Bank Group /i                                                       1,237.5       ID.3
3. Othec eultilateral                                                     400.9       3.3
4. Covetonast                                                          3,353.9       28.0
Ef which centrally piannd enoa icsls
5. Suppilero                                                           3,711.5       31.0
6. FiPancial i-stieutions                                              3,021.4       25.2
7. Scoda                                                                  266.2       2.2
8. Other pablic dtba   --i.                                                   -          -
9. Total public detc                                                   11,991.6     100.0
10. Other MLT debt                                                         461.2
It. Total public and ather MIT debt (disburCsd)                        12,452.8
12. Tota.  poblic and other MLT debt (i-ci. andisbarseo)               19,080.7
C. Meeorandua Itars
1. GraCt elene-t of total comeitsents                      25.2   25.8    30.5   37.2   25.2          27.7      10.6     11.1      8.0       7.4
2. Outrage inttrest (Y)                                      5.1     5.1      5.2     4.8     6.1       8.0      7.9      8.0       8.2      8.8
3. Overage maturity (yeace)                                 14.1    17.9     19.0    23.6   18.3       11.6     13.0     13.0      11.4     14.4
-Include  in other factor service iseome.
/b  Net  f  'drawings" and 'repaynent by prehase" (IFS).
/c Inciudas Dorea-ings by the banking systen.
/d   Eecludesnet ass of IMF resoes ub.ichare shown separately.
,e 'nternartioal Reserver " (IFS).
Lf NDB.
R Inciudes bilatara  ODA, Csitla-kn, official e-port crndits, ineluding US CCC Credits.
Othsr goaranteed private Iats.
Private loae.
/ij Excctuds IFC.
Novanber 29, 1979



- 29 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                 (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                         Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty loans and eight credits fully disbursed                                   725.67  40.0  106.81
906          1973    Republic of Korea        Education II                       23.0                         0.35
917          1973    Republic of Korea        Ports I                            80.0                         0.41
953          1974    Republic of Korea        Tourism                            25.0                         0.16
994          1974    AFDC                     Agriculture                        13.0                         0.04
1070          1975    Republic of Korea        Secondary Cities-Gwangju           15.0                         1.85
1096          1975    Republic of Korea        Education III                      22.5                         2.93
1101          1975    Republic of Korea        Railways V                        100.0                         0.36
1193          1976    Republic of Korea        Second Integrated Dairy Dev.       15.0                         0.01
1203          1976    Republic of Korea        Highways III                       90.0                         2.32
1319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation                         29.0                        23.65
1338          1976    KDB II                   Dev. Finance Co.                   75.0                         1.96
1364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                         95.0                        64.97
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                           67.0                        57.53
1461          1977    KDFC VI                  Dev. Finance Co.                   70.0                         0.63
1466          1977    Republic of Korea        Heavy Machinery                    80.0                        23.95
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                23.0                        12.74
1503          1978    ADC - Ogseo Stage I   Agriculture/Irrigation                36.0                        35.31
1507          1978    SMIB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                   55.0                         1.82
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II             95.0                        54.21
1542          1978    Republic of Korea        Railway VI                        120.0                        28.08
1574          1978    KDB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                        33.46
1635          1978    KDFC VII                 Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                        14.16
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                       143.0                       125.40
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju 14ultipurpose             125.0                       118.67
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology             29.0                        25.54
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        36.60
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                        65.00
1774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                       30.0                        30.00
1778          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                115.0                       115.00
1800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V - Sector Loan         100.0                       100.00
1829 /a       1980    CNB I                    Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                        30.00
1836 7b       1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                        94.0                        94.00
1851 7&       1980    AFDC                     Second Agric. Prod. Process        50.0                        50.00
Total                                                            2,905.17  40.0  106.81   1,150.01
of which has been repaid                                         142.28   -       2.04
Total now outstanding                                            2,762.89  40.0  104.8
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         5.95                              2.88   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                2,760.01  40.0  104.77
Total undisbursed                                                1,150.01   -        -      1,150.01
/a  Effective August 5, 1980.
/b Effective August 29, 1980.
/c Effective September 3, 1980.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                     Page 2 of 14 pages
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of July 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year     Obligor                 Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Fincance Corp.           Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Crop.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                       Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                           -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     2.2    2.2
Total gross commitment                                  99.4   24.8  124.2
less cancelations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   53.7    2.7   56.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                       45.7   22.1   67.9
TOTAL, undisbursed                                        -        -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 31 -                 ANNEX II
Page TTof 14 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provided long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in
the private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of
fruits and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using
land that was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are
mainly asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and
peach.  Implementation of the project was delayed by abit 18 months owing
to lack of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the
project. However, the project began progressing satisfactorily in
September 1977 when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's
scope to meet changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will
financed processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables,
and also fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying.
Roughly $36,500 of the loan's proceeds remained undisbursed at the Closing
Date; this amount was cancelled.
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:  November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm develop-
ment and processing. Effectiveness was delayed for nearly a year but
implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be completed ahead
of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and supply 8% more
cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the farmers has
been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture quality and
establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a low-cost
dairy industry in Korea. The expansion of processing facilities is
progressing steadily and it is anticipated that the actual capacity then
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                  T7Page 4 7of 14 pages
will be significantly above the original estimate.  KDBC's financial
condition improved during the last two years. The general prospects are for E
gradually improving trend. As of July 31, 1980, the loan amount was about
completely disbursed.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$F50 Million Loan ot dune 2/, 1980; Eftective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
June 30, 1981
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC).
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1Y/6; Effective Date:  October z1, 19/6;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. Con-
struction work is progressing on two of the five major civil works contracts
with the first contract well advanced and providing some irrigation water
this year. Altogether, the five contracts involve construction of 8 large
and 19 small dams, 284 km of main and secondary canals and land development
for irrigating 12,700 ha. The project also involves construction of 80 km
of river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as well as
feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed. The
project is currently two years behind schedule due to major shortfalls in
local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 1l, 19//; Effective Date:  April 22, 19/7;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam



- 33 -                 ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was
awarded in December 1977, and construction is progressing well, with the
closure of the estuary due in March 1981, in line with the appraisal
schedule.  However, start of construction on the irrigation subprojects is
two years behind schedule due to shortfalls in local budget allocation.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work
consists of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and
land development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of
improved drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha
of tertiary irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to
paddy land. Construction will be carried out under seven civil works
contracts and three were awarded in late 1979. The project is currently
behind schedule due to major shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component will be completed in
1980. Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total
area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,1912 ha. Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,



- 34 -                 ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. The major civil works contract was awarded in
December 1979 and progress to date is good.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million Loan,
of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial Leasing
Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: March 21,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects during the period
1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was relent by KDB to its
wholly-owned subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation (KILC). to
acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to
investment enterprises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78.
KDFC's performance has been very satisfactory.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million as compared with the
appraisal estimate of $255 million. This is due to increases in scope to
enhance the project's ability to manufacture nuclear power plant; the
devaluation of the US dollar, and domestic inflation. The market prospects
for the project have been affected by licensing of other power plant
manufacturers in Korea. In order to deal with this problem and to strengthen
the financial viability of the project, the Government intends to increase
the capital base of the project sponsor and to consolidate its operations
with another manufacturer. Details are being worked out between the parties
involved and will be the subject of discussions between the Korean
authorities and the Bank in December 1980.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                 Page 7-of 14 pages
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 19/8; Effective Date: September 14, 19/8;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreig-t exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KD'Bs
subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of
subloans in order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
1OUTU- Million Loan of December /, 19/8; Effective [ate:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0
million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available to the
Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated
to KDFC, by way of subloans.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date:  June Z8, 19/9;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in finalizing specifications and bidding
documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the project
is progressing satisfactorily. Bids have been received and are being
evaluated for a major proportion of the equipment. The training program
is also under way.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                  Page 8-of 14 pages
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: Ausust 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan would be used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government-s policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan would be utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date:  March 21, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. The project has been designed to reach out into
communities with primary care services, particularly maternal and child health
and family planning. The major components are: (a) improving the delivery
of health and family planning services by strengthening and expanding the
delivery network; (b) increasing demand for services by strengthening and
expanding information, education and communication activities in health and
family planning; and (c) improving the program's evaluation and administra-
tion capacities. The principal beneficiaries will be mothers and children,
primarily in rural areas, who do not have access to services. It is esti-
mated that about 10 million people would be provided primary health care
services under the project, thus lowering fertility, mortality and morbidity.



ANNEX 1I
- 37-                  Page 9 of 14 pages
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 86 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related civil
works. Although delayed by about two years due to some project content
changes and temporary halting on equipment procurement, the project has now
been satisfactorily completed.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975  Effective Date:  June 6, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is satisfactory.
Physical facilities and the technical assistance program have been completed.
Training operations have commenced in five VTIs. However, equipment procure-
ment under the MOE component is delayed by almost one year because of a
temporary shortage of counterpart funds. This, in turn, caused a postpone-
ment of the Closing Date by one year. Now all equipment contracts have been
awarded and over 80% achieved. Estimated total project cost now slightly
higher (3%) than the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. The implementation schedule is now on schedule. All civil
works contracts have been awarded. Two VTIs are now in operation and four
more will be in operation in October 1980. About 80% of equipment has been
awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts are in post and the fellowship
program has been completed. Disbursements have improved significantly and,
as of June 30, 1980, have been over 37% of the total loan. Management per-
formance has also improved.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                   Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project include about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment.  The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned. Enrollment increases have been
restrained and the Private Institutions Promotion Act is being enacted.
Disbursement has not yet started.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of January 4,
1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and telecom-
munication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 m of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and a
school for training hotel personnel. The first two hotels with 600 rooms
were completed and opened for operation on April 1, 1978. Negotiations with
other private investors are under way for a third hotel and also for apart-
ments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. The total amount of the
loan is expected to be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project has essen-
tially been completed. Three housing sites, two access roads, a city
market fishery harbor infrastructure and building complex and associated



ANNEX II
- 39 -                  Page 11 of 14 pages
electrical works were completed last year.  Installation of refrigeration
and ice handling equipment at the fishery complex which experienced some
delays, has been completed; the fishery complex is fully operational.
Construction of houses at all three sites has been completed atid the sites
are fully occupied. Yeosu Water Supply Extension Project is expected to be
completed by mid-1980. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling
conditions of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional
Development Unit, the project has moved extremely well.
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: Fe`'ruary 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Projecl: has started.
The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojectp   Civil work
contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply, and C angju Industrial
Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and construction works are
underway. Bids are being solicited for five subprojects for which detailed
engineering has been completed. Consultants are expected to complete detailed
designs and contract documents for other subprojects by July 1980. A
detailed implementation plan for the aquaculture program has bleen prepared;
credits will become available to aquaculture farmers beginning early next
year. Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under Technical
Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project implementation is
satisfactory. Rapid escalating in construction costs in Korea is going to
cause cost overrun problems, which are being addressed.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are completed. Final estimated cost is $143 million including
$101 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign exchange requirement over
the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided by a Saudi Fund
for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Government; this loan was
based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115 million arrived
at following the first large increase in the price of petroleum products.
The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional civil works which
are now under way.



- 40 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will help the Korean National Railraod (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the strengthen-
ing of its financial position. The main components of the project are: an
increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling; acquisi-
tion of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and
repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. All contracts to be financed from the loan have been
awarded and most of the equipment delivered.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b)
paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in February 1980 and a contract
for detailed engineering has been negotiated. As of June 30, 1980 disburse-
ments were over 97% of the total loan. The Saudi Fund for Development is
providing a loan of $35 million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Mlillion Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter warf
No. 5 were let in July and December 1979 respectively, following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Estimated costs have



A'NNEX II
- 41 -                  Page 13 ~'f 14 pages
increased to $161 million ($98 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal
estimate of $112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to intrc*duce commer-
cial accounting from January 1, 1983. Traffic and specially ccontainerized
general cargo traffic continues to increase at Busan.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity requiLred to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. The
feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 has been carried out and
the transport sector studies are under way.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
reads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction.  Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979
and is proceeding satisfactorily. A contract for the study was signed, and
work started in September 1979. However, due to budgetary constraints, the
construction work is proceeding slower than originally scheduled.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                  Page 14 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with Government and
Bank participation on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity
of the transport system in the most economically efficient way and to
develop and strengthen the institutions dealing with the transport sector.
The main component of the project aims at: (a) initiating the institutional
changes necessary to gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR)
into a public corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to
meet forecast traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs.
The loan will finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes,
passenger cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and
training.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in KECO's power
development program to meet the load growth up to 1986. The project would
provide for the installation of two 500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated
auxiliary equipment; coal handling and storage facilities, fuel oil tanks,
ash system and storage area, a fuel unloading dock for ships up to 100,000
DWT displacement; a pumping station and a 17 km steel pipe to transport
fresh water to the station; and a 160 km double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line between the power station and Seoul, and related terminal substations
and management consulting services. In September 1979, contracts for the
main equipment which is not being financed by the Bank were signed. Effective
February 1, 1980, power rates were increased on average by 36% and are now
equivalent to about USIO cents a unit. This increase should enable KECO to
meet its 9% rate of return objective.



43 -                           ANNEX III
KOREA
KOREA LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         The project was prepared on the
basis of regular supervision
missions of the previous Bank
loans to KLTCB.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project             : November 1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal mission   : February 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed             : October 27, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness    : April 1, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action is considered necessary
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Financial sector studies and analysis of selected financial sector
issues would be required as to form the basis for a continuing
dialogue between the Government and the Bank (para. 48);
(b) KLTCB will maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 10:1
(para. 65);
(c) The free-limit on individual subloans will be raised from $4 million
to $5 million (para. 66).
(d) KLTCB would relend the loan proceeds at an interest rate of two
percentage points over the weighted average cost of available
foreign official resources (para. 67).






se    i' X '''''4                 1 0 j   t  th0W iSaR    SiV I
;-)11



