Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2730-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
FIFTH SOFIDE (SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT) PROJECT
February 29, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of October 1978
B 1.00 = SDR 1.00
US$1.00 = B 0.77
B 1.00 = US$1.30
As of January 1979 1/
B 1.00 = SDR 0.5
US$1.00 = B 1.007
B 1.00 = US$0.9930
As of August 24, 1979
B 1.00 = SDR 0.375
US$1.00 = B 2.04
B 1.00 = US$0.49
Since February 22t 1980 2/
B 1.00 = SDR 0.2625
US$1.00 = B 2.9
B 1.00 = US$0.34
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         African Development Bank
ANEZA       Association Nationale des Entreprises Zairoises
BCZ         Banque Commerciale Zairoise
BDZ         Banque du Zaire
BIAO        Banque Internationale pour 1'Afrique Occidentale
CEFEB       Centre d'Etudes Financieres, Economiques et Bancaires
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DEG         Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EDI         Economic Development Institute
EIB         European Investment Bank
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
IDA         International Development Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NGBZ        "Nouvelle Garantie Banque de Zaire"
OGEDEP      Office de gestion de la dette exterieure publique
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
.OPEZ       Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises Zairoises
SBI         Societe Belge d'Investissement
SIFIDA      Societe Internationale Financiere pour les Investissements
et le Developpement en Afrique
SOFIDE      Societe Financiere de Developpement
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UZB         Union Zairoise de Banques
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/  The zaire underwent a 50 percent devaluation vis-a-vis the SDR in
four stages between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979.
2/   Not used for conversion in this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
FIFTH SOFIDE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:         Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE)
Amount:              US$18.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would relend the proceeds of the proposed
credit to SOFIDE at an interest rate of 8.25 percent per
annum with a flexible amortization schedule conforming
to the aggregate amortization schedule of SOFIDE's
subloans, subject to a maximum of 15 years including
a grace period not to exceed 5 years, except for the
technical assistance and equipment component (US$230,000)
which would be reimbursed according to a fixed amor-
tization schedule. SOFIDE would relend the funds to its
borrowers at a minimum rate of 15 percent per annum.
Medium and large enterprises will bear the foreign
exchange risk. The Borrower will bear the foreign
exchange risk on loans to small Zairian majority owned
enterprises with assets of less than Z 200,000 (about
US$98,000) and on the technical assistance and equipment
component.
Project              The credit would finance the foreign exchange component
Description:        of the fixed capital investment requirements of subpro-
jects approved by SOFIDE in the agriculture, transporta-
tion and industrial sectors, and working capital up to a
total of US$3 million for existing high economic priority
projects in SOFIDE's portfolio. At least US$7.5 million
of the proposed credit would finance agricultural projects.
The Credit would also provide up to US$230,000 to finance
staff training and some equipment for SOFIDE. In addition
to current uncertainties about future economic develop-
ments in Zaire, the main risks of the project relate to
the impact on SOFIDE's subborrowers of: (a) the shortage
of foreign exchange for importation of raw materials and
spare parts; (b) the rate of inflation in Zaire. The
working capital component is designed to alleviate the
impact on the output capacity of qualified SOFIDE sub-
borrowers of low imported input stock levels due to
reduced availability of foreign exchange.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated          Year ending June 30         FY   1981   1982   1983   1984
Disbursements:
Annual (US$ million)              3.0    5.9    7.0    2.6
Cumulative (US$  million)         3.0    8.9   15.9   18.5
Appraisal Report: No. 2314-ZR, dated February 19, 1980
MAP:               IBRD 3560R7



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A FIFTH SOFIDE
(SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$18.5
million on standard IDA terms to finance a fifth development finance company
project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent by the Zairian Government
to SOFIDE at 8.25 percent interest rate with a flexible amortization schedule
conforming to the aggregate amortization schedule of SOFIDE's subloans,
subject to a maximum of fifteen years including a grace period not to exceed
five years, except for the technical assistance and equipment component which
would be reimbursed according to a fixed schedule.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in July-August 1978 and again in
August 1979. Its report (No. 2518-ZR) was distributed on October 19, 1979.
The last few months have witnessed a number of important international actions
on Zaire such as the approval by the IMF of a Stand-by Arrangement in support
of an 18-month stabilization program, an ad hoc conference of donors on
Zaire's short-term assistance needs, and a meeting of the Paris Club on ex-
ternal debt rescheduling. The findings of the last economic report as well
as the results of the above actions are incorporated below. Country data are
attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated
at about US$210 in 1978, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approxi-
mately one-fourth of its population of about 26 million live in urban areas,
and the population density is 11 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been
proceeding at a rate of more than 5 percent per annum, or about twice as fast as
the growth of population. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 18 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral processing
industry normally accounts for about 20 percent of GDP; it has been tradition-
ally the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country's export earnings.
*       4.         When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years were
marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of the economy;
but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967, the gross
domestic product grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974.
Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties,
which have brought about a continuous decline in aggregate output.



- 2 -
5.        Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive accen-
tuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by the
relative neglect of agricultural production; the failure to follow an anti-
cyclical reserve policy from the beginning of the last copper cycle or at
least to invest the windfall earnings properly; heavy external borrowing
during 1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with
Zaire's level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and
uncertain economic benefits; and the attempt to drastically change the owner-
ship structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the zairiani-
zation and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links
between urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect--and in
some cases destruction--of the country's productive capacity and infrastruc-
ture. In view of the appearance of these trends before 1975, it is difficult
to attribute the current economic crisis of Zaire to a single factor, either
external or internal. Yet one event stands out as a major contributor to both
the severity and the duration of the crisis: the deterioration of Zaire's
terms of trade in 1975, which was brought about principally by the fall in
the international price of copper. The change in the terms of trade was
drastic, abrupt and sustained; moreover, it occurred at a time when production
was being severely disrupted by the delayed effects of zairianization/
nationalization, when institutional performance was weakening, and when
external debt service obligations were on the rise.
6.        During the 1975-77 period, the first three years of the crisis,
Zaire's commercialized GDP declined by about 13 percent in real terms; the
Government ran large budgetary deficits; domestic prices quadrupled; the
overall balance of payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per
year; and Zaire accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt,
including commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization
programs, with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977),
but these could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.        In 1978, domestic and external financial imbalances persisted and
economic activity continued to decline. GDP in real terms contracted by
2.7 percent due to adverse weather conditions, the acute shortage of inputs
in the agriculture, industry and transportation sectors, and the fall in
Gecamines' output resulting partly from the events which took place in the
Shaba province in May and partly from the unattended rehabilitation needs of
the company. Owing to a 40 percent increase in current expenditures, the
overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 590 million,
equivalent to 9 percent of commercialized GDP. Deficit financing, together
with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and intermediate
products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 100 percent. Between
November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued the zaire in
four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0 = SDR 1.0
to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Thanks to a 31 percent increase in exports and an



- 3 -
11 percent decrease in imports (both in nominal terms), the overall balance
of payments deficit was reduced to about $360 million. The defictt was
financed primarily by a further accumulation of arrears. Total arrears
increased from about US$800 million at the end of 1977 to more than 1JSS1.0
billion at the end of L978.
8.        According to partial and preliminary information, the economic and
financial situation of Zaire remained difficult in 1979. In particular, the
decline in aggregate production which has beset the economy since 1975 could
not be arrested. At the end of the first semester, the budgetary deficit
amounted to about Z 280 million and was financed entirely by recourse to the
banking system. This plus the acceleration of credit to the rest of the
economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which rose by about 90 percent
in the capital city during the first ten months of the year. The balance of
payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On June 30, 1979, arrears (includ-
ing those on short-term comnercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.5 billion. (On that date, Zaire had an additional US$200 million of
arrears on private debt, i.e., debt by a private entity carrying a guarantee
of foreign exchange availability by the Central Bank.) On August 24, 1979,
the zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00 = SDR 0.375 = US$0.49 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978 to 62.5 percent.
9.        The year 1979 saw four concrete attempts to arrest the above trends
and to prepare the conditions for a resumption of economic growth: (a) the
adoption of a new stabilization program, supported by a Stand-by Arrangement
with the IMF; (2) an attempt to mobilize the short-term external assistance
needed for the successful implementation of the stabilization program; (3)
renegotiation of external debt, both with the private banks and with the Paris
Club; and (4) completion of a three-year public investment program.
10.       The new stabilization program covers the 18-month period from July 1,
1979 to December 31, 1980 and has been designed essentially to contain the
overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of inflation, and reactivate
the economy. To these ends, the program calls for: (1) a marked reduction
in the budgetary deficit requiring bank financing to Z 350 million; (2) a
substantial deceleration of domestic credit expansion ; (3) the implementation
of prudent incomes policies; (4) the continuation of a flexible exchange
rate policy; (5) the improvement of foreign exchange management; (6) the
commencement of an orderly process of reducing outstanding external payments
arrears; and (7) the limitation of new external borrowing by the Government
or against government guarantee with maturities of 1-12 years. In support of
this program, on August 27, 1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in
the upper credit tranches of SDR 118 million for a period of 18 months. The
IMF also approved a Trust Fund loan presently estimated at SDR 50 million.
As of January 1980, Zaire has purchased SDR 20 million under the Stand-by
Arrangement and has recei,ed Trust Fund disbursements of SDR 34.2 million.



- 4 -
11.       The implementation of the stabilization program has not been without
difficulties. The program had assumed that the foreign exchange resources
available for imports would rise by about 30 percent in nominal terms in 1979,
bringing some relief to the economy. However, for various reasons, including
delays in aid disbursements and debt rescheduling, imports have fallen short
of the projected level and consequently the supply situation has remained
tight. Provisional data also indicate that performance in the areas of the
budget, domestic credit and external arrears has been below expectations.
An IMF mission visited Zaire in the second half of January in order to review
performance under the program in 1979 and set performance criteria for 1980.
12.       The short-term needs of the Zairian economy, comprising both ins-
titutional/policy measures by Zaire and external assistance, have been the
focus of three ad hoc conferences of donors organized by Belgium, with the
support and participation of Zaire, since 1978. At the first one, in June
1978, the major donors announced some emergency commodity assistance to
alleviate the impact of the Shaba invasion of May of that year. The second
conference, which took place in November 1978, underscored the indispensability
of substantial external assistance (additional to that already in the pipe-
line) to the success of a stabilization program and resulted in promises from
donors of about US$225 million in such assistance, of which (according to
donors) US$155 million were disbursed in 1979. The third conference was
announced shortly after the adoption of the new stabilization program and
convened on November 28-29, 1979. At that conference, Zaire requested US$300
million of commodity assistance for 1980. The donors indicated their inten-
tion to provide US$180-200 million in such assistance during the year.
13.       To alleviate the growing debt repayment difficulties, Zaire began
debt rescheduling negotiations in late 1975. Although a Memorandum of Under-
standing was signed in November 1976 with representatives of 13 private banks,
the understanding could not be fully implemented due to the failure of a US$250
million loan from the private banks--which formed part of the understanding--to
materialize. Furthermore, the rescheduling agreements reached with the Paris
Club on three separate occasions (June 1976, July 1977 and November 1977) were
not accompanied by an improvement in the economic situation and, therefore,
by mid-1979, Zaire accumulated arrears of approximately US$60 million on the
rescheduled debt. On June 30, 1979, Zaire's external public debt (disbursed
and outstanding), including arrears, amounted to about US$3.9 billion. On
that date Zaire owed, in addition, US$300 million in private debt and US$700
million in short-term (under one year) commercial debt, either public or
private, and invisibles. (Undisbursed commitments amounted to US$680 million).
Roughly 10 percent of the public debt was owed to private banks and nearly
two-thirds to members of the Paris Club. About half of the debt was contracted
between 1973-1975, much of it from private source and with relatively short
grace periods. Consequently, as of June 30, 1979, the average contractual
debt service due (assuming no rescheduling and excluding arrears) during
1979-81 was projected at 26 percent of exports.



14.       Rescheduling negotiations were reactivated during the second half of
1979 with considerable success. On November 8, 1979, Zaire reached a tentative
agreement with the agent banks of syndicated credits on the rescheduling of
the entire uninsured debt (including principal and interest in arrears) owed
to the private banks. The tentative agreement calls for a substantial down-
payment in 1980, small annual payments during 1981-84, and liquidation of the
rest during 1985-90. The agreement is expected to be finalized in the first
quarter of this year. On December 11, 1979, the Paris Club provided for the
rescheduling of US$1.3 billion of Zaire's debt, comprising arrears (including
those on already rescheduled debt and insured short-term commercial credits)
and maturities coming due during the period July 1, 1979-December 31, 1980.
The downpayment varies between 10 and 30 percent, depending on the category of
the debt, and most of the remainder is to be repaid in 10 years, with a grace
period of 4 years. (The terms for the repayment of arrears on previously
rescheduled maturities are harder than those for new maturities.) The implemen-
tation of the agreement as well as the eventual rescheduling of 1981 maturities
-- which has been agreed upon in principle -- are conditional on Zaire's
satisfactory performance under the Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF.
15.       During the last two years, Zaire has taken a number of important
steps under the Mobutu Plan, which the government views as a broad-based and
multipronged effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with the parti-
cipation of major donors. These include the installation of an expatriate
deputy governor as well as five technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF,
at the Bank of Zaire. This has been accompanied by some concrete measures to
halt the privileges enjoyed by certain firms with respect to access to foreign
exchange and credit. Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general,
proposed by the UNDP, to the Ministry of Finance. The controller general will
be assisted by a team of technical experts. In addition, as part of an effort
to reform its customs operations, Zaire has passed a law transforming the
Customs Division of the Ministry of Finance into a public organization known
as the Office of Customs and Duties (OFIDA). This new undertaking is expected
to receive substantial technical and administrative support from Belgium.
Also noteworthy is the creation of a Central Pay Directorate which has started
functioning with the assistance of French experts. Moreover, the Government
has reaffirmed through various actions its commitment to expand the role of
and reliance on the private sector. Seven inefficient "commodity offices"
have been dissolved; some agricultural producer prices have been raised;
under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort is under way to involve
private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and related infrastruc-
ture; a new investment code has been promulgated; and a number of reforms
have been initiated in the management of state enterprises. In the latter
part of 1979, mindful of the difficulties encountered in implementing the new
stabilization program, the authorities announced a freeze on administrative
expenditures and the creation of an Economic and Financial Coordination
Committee to monitor progress under the new program.
16.       International and domestic attention to the problem of economic
recovery has been directed for more than a year to the preparation of a three-
year public investment program. The need was underlined at the first Brussels
Conference in June 1978, where the Bank was asked to assist Zaire in this
endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed such a program, focusing



- 6 -
largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as transportation and
agriculture. Further work is underway to assure consistency with the targets
for 1980 under the stabilization program and to adjust the investment program
to anticipated foreign exchange availabilities, taking into account the
outcome of the latest Brussels Conference and debt rescheduling agreements.
The satisfactory completion of this work is required prior to convening a
meeting of the Consultative Group, which is desired by Zaire. The Consultative
Group would be expected to review the investment program in the context of
Zaire's constraints as well as needs.
17.       The most urgent issues facing Zaire concern:  the need to stabilize
the economy, in particular to reverse the decline in production and slow down
the rate of inflation; the need to begin an orderly and determined effort to
clear external debt arrears and meet debt service obligations; and the need to
improve overall economic management. The resource constraints remain severe,
despite the improvement in copper and particularly cobalt prices experienced
in the last 12-18 months, because of the cumulative effect of insufficient
rehabilitation and maintenance on productive capacity and infrastructure
since the beginning of the crisis. Under the terms of the tentative agree-
ment with the private banks and the recent Paris Club agreement, Zaire's debt
service obligations in 1980 will be close to US$450 million and represent a
projected debt service ratio of about 23 percent, or roughly twice the ratio
of actual debt service in recent years.
18.       Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy
and agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices. Economic developments in Zaire will continue to depend on the vagaries
of world commodity prices. For the next two years, however, under the best
circumstances, Zaire cannot hope to achieve an import level much higher than
60 percent of that of 1974. Moreover, important domestic problems remain.
Adjusting to the resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by
the crisis has been seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions,
the inadequacy of administrative controls, especially with regard to the
repatriation and allocation of foreign exchange earnings and the monitoring
of budgetary expenditures, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
The authorities are aware of these shortcomings and the need to correct them.
They recognize, in particular, the importance of continuously strengthening
the ongoing institutional reforms in order to both improve the management of
the economy and encourage the flow -- as well as facilitate the absorption --
sf the substantial external assistance, financial and technical, needed to
fulfill the country's potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.       From 1969 to date, Zaire has received 19 IDA credits totaling
US$247.5 million for transport, agriculture, development finance company
operations, water supply and education projects. The Bank has also extended
grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning



- 77 
assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100
million for the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by
the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which
provided for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export
earnings. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the
Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan
for an offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
December 31, 1979 and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
20.       As of June 30, 1979 the Bank Group's share of Zaire's disbursed
public debt outstanding was about 5.2 percent and its present share of public
debt service is estimated at 3.7 percent during 1980. Disbursements on IDA
credits amounted to US$138.04 million as of December 31, 1979. The amount
disbursed on the loan to GECAMINES was US$76.34 as of the same date.
21.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in
1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM), Bureau of Roads (OR), received technical and financial
assistance from the Association which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank loan
originated a fruitful dialogue which lead to the strengthening of management
and planning of the Company.
22.       While SOFIDE and the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) are execut-
ing projects in a satisfactory manner, implementation of other projects has
been difficult due to the country's inadequate manpower and management
capacity and, in recent years, because of the economic crisis. The first
Education Project (1972) was delayed because of the management weakness of
the Project Unit. While there has been a marked improvement in the manage-
ment of OR and ONATRA, the financial management of RVF and RVM remains
unsatisfactory. In the last two or three years, release of the required
budgetary funds has been increasingly difficult. Lack of foreign exchange
to finance spare parts and fuel, deterioration of the transport network and
marketing system have resulted in supply problems for most projects.
Recruiting and retaining adequate staff has become increasingly difficult.
The present weakness of the construction sector in Zaire has also been a
major factor contributing to both delays and cost overruns in projects such
as water supply and education which include large civil works components.
Finally, inflation has compounded the above problems. Several projects had
to be revised to reduce their scope. An amendment agreement on the GECAMINES
project which allows completion of essential rehabilitation works while
postponing some of the expansion investments was signed in November 1979.
23.       In the past two years the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture, transport and education sectors, in part through the design
and implementation of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry are
also included in our program through assistance to SOFIDE. A fourth Highway



- 8 -
Project and a Railways Project were signed on June 14, 1979. A major thrust
of future assistance is expected to be on agriculture to reverse the declining
trend of agricultural output, decrease reliance on agricultural imports and
promote the export of selected agricultural commodities. A Smallholder Maize
Development Project and a Technical Assistance Credit for Agricultural
Development in the Kwango-Kwilu subregions are scheduled for presentation to
the Executive Directors in the coming months. A project consisting of the
rehabilitation of sugar processing facilities has also been appraised.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING, AGRICULTURAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Manufacturing Sector
24.       The Manufacturing Sector presently contributes some 8-10 percent of
GDP and provides 15-20 percent of total employment in the monetarized sector.
The sector's growth has been uneven, reflecting the trends of the economy.
It is estimated that manufacturing output grew at an annual average rate of
10 percent in 1968-74, declined by 7 percent per annum in 1975-76, by 10
percent in 1977 and by 15% percent in 1978. Industrial employment expanded
between 1970 and 1974 but declined substantially thereafter. Overall, the
pattern of sectoral growth has been away from industries processing local
materials, in favor of industries based upon imported raw materials, partly
as a result of declining supply of local inputs. Manufacturing of consumer
goods has grown significantly faster than that of intermediate and capital
goods.
25.       In 1970, industrial enterprises were concentrated geographically
in the two major urbanized areas, Kinshasa and Lubumbashi, contributing 43
percent and 19 percent respectively of industrial employment and 51 percent
and 20 percent respectively of industrial value added. Since then, Kinshasa's
importance as a manufacturing center has increased further, with most of the
new large manufacturing projects being located there.
26.       Until 1973, almost all major industrial enterprises were owned by
foreign and locally-based expatriate interests. While most of them continue
to be managed by their expatriate former owners and maniagers, the "zairianiza-
tion' and nationalization measures of 1973-74 (para. 5) resulted in a severe
dislocation of the distribution system of manufactured goods, and a drastic
decline in the level of industrial investment. In 1976-77, under the Govern-
ment's denationalization (para. 5) program, ownership of almost all national-
ized firms and a large number of "zairianized" enterprises were returned to
their former foreign owners, who were required to find Zairian partners to
purchase 40 percent of their shareholdings. Although locating suitable
local partners has in many cases proven difficult given the limited number of
Zairian entrepreneurs, several foreign-owned industrial firms have managed
to do so. This has resulted in significant changes in ownership structure in
the industrial sector. Of a sample of 67 large and medium scale enterprises
in seven branches of manufacturing in late 1976, 21 were totally foreign-owned,
13 totally Zairian owned, 7 were state-owned and the remainder (26) were
mixed ventures.



- 9 -
27.       Industrial investment in 1970 amounted to Z 14.6 million (about 15
percent of total investment). Although data for later years are not available,
it would appear that industrial investment probably remained at the same level
until 1973/74 when the "zairianization" measures halted almost all inflows of
private foreign investment. Even after the denationalization, foreign
private investments remained depressed mainly due to economic uncertainties
and barriers to profit repatriation. SOFIDE has thus become the major source
of term foreign exchange financing to the sector.
28.       To regulate and promote industrial development in Zaire the Govern-
ment has used a number of policy instruments such as a) price controls,
b) foreign trade regulations, c) foreign exchange controls, d) credit regula-
tions, and e) an investment code under which the Government can grant tax
exemptions and guarantees for repatriation of capital investment, profit and
interest to foreign enterprises. However, because of the general economic
climate and inefficient administrative framework, the impact of such policy
instruments, with the exception of foreign exchange controls (para. 34),
on industrial activity has been limited. The Bank's report on the manufactur-
ing sector in Zaire (Report No. 2212-ZR, October 29, 1979) recommends (a) in
the short- and medium-term, to better allocate scarce foreign exchange away
from non-essentials and in favor of raw materials and spare parts for local
producers, to revise the price control system, and to provide greater incentives
to local production; and (b) in the long-term, to give priority to the
development of industries based upon local raw materials, to reform the
tariff system to provide adequate incentives for local production and to
strengthen the process of identification and evaluation of industrial projects.
The Government agrees with the thrust of these recommendations. However,
these recommendations have economic implications which are dependent upon and
can only be considered in the framework of the stabilization and public
investment programs (paras. 10 and 15). It is therefore not proposed to link
specific industrial policy changes to the proposed Credit.
The Agricultural Sector
29.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.  The country s
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in climates which make possible a variety of
agricultural activities. Over three quarters of Zaire's population derives
its livelihood from agriculture and many of the remainder are indirectly
dependent on it for employment. Nevertheless, agriculture's contribution to
GDP is only about 18 percent of which nearly 60 percent comes from between
three and four million family farms growing food crops, mainly for their own
use, and small amounts of cash crops, usually coffee or cotton. The rest of
agricultural production comes from plantations which produce coffee, rubber,
cocoa and tea for export and sugar, palm oil and cattle for the domestic
market. The deterioration of general economic conditions, unfavorable farm
prices and nationalization policies, have resulted in a decline in agricul-
tural production since independence and in the deterioration of agro-industrial
processing facilities. Agriculture has also suffered from the low level of
public expenditures for the sector, which varied between 1 and 3 percent



- 10 -
of government recurrent expenditures and 2 to 8 percent of government capital
expenditures between 1970 and 1978. As a result, the volume of export crops
has decreased while imports of foodstuffs have increased (and yet they remain
insufficient) to meet the food requirements of the fast-growing population.
30.       The Government has recently reaffirmed its intention to give priority
to agriculture and, within the framework of the Mobutu Plan, has identified a
number of priority areas for action. These include (i) restoring transporta-
tion links in the rural areas; (ii) raising productivity of small farms; (iii)
applying simple and low cost agricultural technologies; (iv) reviewing pricing
and marketing policies; (v) involving the private sector in the recovery
program through the conclusion of Development Agreements with industrial
and commercial enterprises, whereby funds from the collection of special
charges are earmarked for priority development projects; and (vi) strengthen-
ing agricultural training and extension.
The Financial Sector
31.       The principal institutions comprising the Zairian financial system
are the Central Bank (BD7), eight commercial banks, and the development bank
(SOFIDE). All these institutions are based in Kinshasa, hut some, notably
the larger commercial banks, have branches in most major centers in the
interior. Owing to deteriorating economic corditions, high inflation rates
and the interest rate limits on commercial credit, commercial banks have been
very reluctant in recent years to lend for medium or long term. The principal
source of long term finance and the only non-governmental source of term
foreign exchange financing is SOFIDE.
32.       During the years of economic "boom" in 1973 and 1974, credit
controls had been relaxed permitting rapid growth in the money supply. Since
then credit restrictions have progressively been reinstated. In early 1979
reserve requirements were reintroduced while overall credit ceilings were
maintained to control the growth of lending. Credit allocations were also
set for lending to priority sectors (agriculture, industry, transport).
BDZ's rediscounting facilities have been introduced again for loans meeting
certain conditions regarding timing and repayment terms. Effective January
1979 maximum interest on loans by commercial banks, exclusive of commissions,
range from 7.5 percent to 20 percent as compared with 6-15 percent previously.
33.       The financing needs of commercial agriculture are met by commercial
banks and by SOFIDE. SOFIDE charges agricultural borrowers 7.5 to 15 percent
interest rates depending on the size of the enterprises and on the sources of
funds. There is no institutional credit for small farmers. although a minority
benefits from credit under special projects.
34.       Until 1974, BDZ had delegated the administration of almost all
foreign exchange transactions to the licensed commercial banks, except for
exports of copper, cobalt and diamonds. With the fall in world coppEr prices
and the increasing burden of external debt, stricter foreign exchange co-trols
were progressively introduced. The abolition, in September 1978, of BD7's
guarantee program has approximately halved the foreign exchange available
from commercial banks for imports of industrial raw materials and spare
parts.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The staff appraisal report for this project, entitled "Zaire, Staff
Appraisal Report of a Fifth IDA Credit, Societe Financiere de Developpement"
No. 2314-ZR dated February 19, 1980 is being circulated separately. The
appraisal mission visited Zaire in September 1978 and in May 1979. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from May 15 to May 18. The Government delega-
tion was led by Mr. Kazadi Membu, Chairman and General Manager of SOFIDE.
The Institution
Background and Objectives
36.       SOFIDE was established as a limited liability company in 1970
with IFC subscribing 19 percent of its initial share capital and has so far
received from IDA four credits totalling US$35 million. SOFIDE is the only
institution of its kind in Zaire and although still relatively new has firmly
established itself as the principal source of long-term finance (para. 31
above).
37.       In 1976 the World Bank Operations Evaluation Department conducted
a project performance audit of the first credit to SOFIDE (190-CK). The
conclusion was that, in general, SOFIDE had successfully fulfilled the
objectives that were set at its creation but there was scope for improved
performance, particularly in appraisal and supervision work. During the last
two years, SOFIDE has made considerable progress in these areas (para. 40).
Share Capital and Ownership
38.       In order to restore SOFIDE's borrowing base which had been eroded
by the 1976 devaluation and to expand its capacity to finance an increased
volume of projects, SOFIDE's share capital was doubled from Z 2 million to
Z 4 million in 1977. Ownership of SOFIDE's share capital is presently
distributed as follows: public sector shareholders (including the Government
and the Central Bank) 40 percent, local commercial banks and private investors
24 percent, IFC 9 percent and other foreign shareholders 27 percent. In
addition, SOFIDE has quasi-equity consisting of Government loans and advances
totalling Z 6 million, as well as rolled-over IDA funds relent to it by the
Government. The Government has also agreed in principle to convert the
Special Fund for agriculture (Z 13 million) into quasi-equity.
Management, Organization and Staff
39.       SOFIDE's Board consists of ten members and is chaired by SOFIDE's
Chairman and General Manager. The Board of Directors adequately represents
the various shareholders interests including IFC, and its decisions have
been generally sound despite the difficult and deteriorating environment in
which SOFIDE has to operate. SOFIDE's present Chairman and General Manager,



- 12 -
a Zairian national, joined SOFIDE in 1973. He is a capable manager, widely
respected in the Zairian public and private sectors. He has been assisted
by a Deputy General Manager seconded by the Bank. SOFIDE's management has
performed well. In recent years, the two major institutional developments
have been the creation and growth of SOFIDE's Agricultural Department and
the establishment of regional offices. As of June 1979, SOFIDE had a staff
of 113, including 45 professionals, four of whom are expatriates. SOFIDE's
organizational structure is adequate and the quality of its staff is
satisfactory.
Appraisal and Loan Administration
40.       SOFIDE has made significant progress in improving appraisal and
loan administration. New procedures have been introduced to ensure that
appraisals are fully completed prior to SOFIDE Board presentation. SOFIDE
has also continued to improve its economic analysis of projects. SOFIDE's
procedures for procurement, disbursement and supervision are adequate. The
establishment of new regional offices should further improve its supervision
capability. Moreover, SOFIDE has become increasingly active in pro,ect
promotion, especially in the interior, successfully identifying investment
opportunities in agriculture, agro-industry, transportation as well as
Zairian investors interested in them.
Auditors
41.       The audited accounts covering the period ending December 31, 1978,
are available. Audits of SOFIDE's accounts are generally satisfactory in
thoroughness and quality and provide adequate analysis of SOFIDE's portfolio.
At the occasion of the next audit, however, SOFIDE and IDA have decided to
review in detail the treatment of foreign exchange losses by the auditors,
which appeared deficient in the 1978 audit.
Lending Terms
42.       SOFIDE's rates are generally consistent with those prevailing in
Zaire and have allowed SOFIDE an adequate spread. In March 1979, SOFIDE
increased its rate on local and foreign currency loans not tied up to specific
conditions to 15 percent and its commitment fee from I to 1.5 percent. In
February 1980, the interest rate was increased again to 20 percent for local
currency loans to industry as of July 1, 1980. As inflation in Zaire averaged
80 percent from 1976 to 1978, is likely to have reached 100 percent in 1979
and is expected to slow to 60 percent in 1980, 40 percent in 1981 and 30
percent in 1982, these rates remain negative in real terms for local currency
loans and those foreign exchange loans for which the government bears the
foreign exchange risk. On the other foreign exchange loans, however, real
interest rates are positive as large and medium borrowers bear the foreign
exchange risk. SOFIDE has agreed to seek to charge its borrowers a positive
real interest rate except for small-scale enterprises (para. 55(b)).



- 13 -
43.       SOFIDE's Statement of Policy stipulates that SOFIDE does not incur
exchange risks in respect of those borrowings that are repayable in foreign
currency. In the past, the Government had committed itself to bearing the
foreign exchange risk resulting from SOFIDE's foreign exchange operations up
to a ceiling of US$30 million equivalent of debt outstanding.
44.       Following the devaluations of the zaire in 1978 and 1979, signi-
ficant foreign exchange losses were incurred on principal and interest
payments on foreign borrowings (excluding IDA credits) directly contracted by
SOFIDE and upon which the subborrowers did not carry the exchange risk.
These losses, which should have been borne by the Government (para. 43), were
in fact covered by SOFIDE out of its own resources. Losses thus incurred
amounted to Z 4.2 million at the end of December 1979, and future losses on
the same borrowings for an estimated total of Z 7.7 million were to be
incurred on payments falling due in 1980 and 1981. Absorbing these losses
would endanger SOFIDE's financial situation in the coming years. In order to
protect SOFIDE, the Government has agreed to reimburse, and has in fact
reimbursed SOFIDE for all losses incurred through December 31, 1980.
In addition, the Government has agreed to establish an administrative
mechanism by which all foreign exchange losses to be incurred on loans
contracted after December 31, 1980 upon SOFIDE's Government guaranteed
foreign borrowings will be automatically covered by the Office of Public
Debt Management (OGEDEP) as they are incurred. Covenants reflecting
these obligations would be inserted in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and SOFIDE.
Operations
45.       Throughout the economic crisis, SOFIDE, as the major non-
Governmental source of term foreign exchange financing, has had to adapt
its investments strategy to meet the most pressing needs of the economy. As
a consequence lending to agriculture has been rapidly expanding, accounting
for 38 percent of approvals in 1978 and 48 percent in 1979; transportation
projects have also been encouraged while industrial financing has generally
been limited. SOFIDE's loan approvals have grown rapidly from Z 8.6 millions
in 1976 to Z 51.3 millions in 1979, a substantial increase in real terms.
SOFIDE's lending is well diversified among manufacturing industries, agricul-
ture, agro-industries, transport and construction. SOFIDE has also pursued a
better regional diversification of its portfolio.
Loan and Equity Portfolio
46.       As of June 30, 1979, SOFIDE had made partial or total disbursements
on over 140 projects. The total loan portfolio outstanding at that date
amounted to Z 33.2 million. Arrears of more than 3 months affected 26.9
percent of the loan portfolio outstanding, which is rather high and yet compares
favorably with the situation of other African DFC's. In two of three large



- 14 -
projects accounting for 60 percent of these arrears, improvements are expected
in 1980 as a result of continued intensive supervision of SOFIDE. As of June
30, 1979, SOFIDE had a small equity portfolio totalling Z 1.7 million consist-
ing of equity investments in seven companies. In assessing the overall port-
folio, it should be stressed that 76 percent by number and 82 percent by
value of SOFIDE's investments are for rehabilitation and expansion of existing
projects. Many of SOFIDE's clients are leading industrial companies in Zaire
which are sufficiently diversified to be able to service SOFIDE's debt whilst
the projects are being implemented and even though they recently had to
operate at depressed capacity levels. On the whole, SOFIDE's loan portfolio
is well secured and of acceptable quality given the economic environment in
which it is operating.
Financial Situation
47.       SOFIDE's profitability has increased rapidly in the last two years
owing to (a) the rapid growth in lending operations; and (b) the wider spread
earned on the loan portfolio. Nevertheless, SOFIDE's administrative expenses
have also increased to 4.7 percent of average total assets in 1978, which is
high for a development bank. This is due to the high level of inflation and
its impact on staff's salaries and also to high overheads incurred on project
work in the interior. Mainly as a result of rapid debt-financed portfolio
growth, SOFIDE's debt/equity ratio (including quasi-equity) at the end of
1978 was 2.5 to 1, as against 1.9 at the end of 1977 and was expected to have
risen to 3.8:1 by the end of 1979. Given the current state of SOFIDE's
portfolio and the adequate level of provisions, SOFIDE appears sound and
creditworthy.
Resources
48.       SOFIDE has received local currency resources through share capital
increases, government loans, rolled over IDA credits (repayments on subloans
under previous IDA credits which are relent by the Government to SOFIDE) and
net cash generation. In addition, SOFIDE manages a Special Agricultural
Investment Fund (up to Z 13 million) for the Government and receives a 4
percent management fee on monies invested in agricultural projects from this
Fund. SOFIDE, with the assistance of IDA, has made considerable progress in
diversifying its sources of foreign exchange. At present, SOFIDE has lines
of credit from eight different sources including a first line of credit from
the OPEC Special Fund and one from the African Development Bank. However,
many of these borrowings are tied to conditions regarding sector, size,
beneficiaries of loans and procurement which limit the flexibility of
their utilization by SOFIDE. The rapid growth in operations over the past
two years has nearly exhausted available resources, both in local currency
and in foreign exchange, and SOFIDE had to slow down its commitments in the
first half of 1979.



- 15 -
Prospects
49.       Project Pipeline.  As of January 1979, SOFIDE had a substantial
pipeline of 122 industrial and agricultural projects. The promoters of these
projects were for the most part Zairian and locally-based foreign private
firms, with some projects being joint ventures either between Zairian and
foreign interests or between the Government and private groups. SOFIDE's
agricultural pipeline consists of 80 projects with a broad sub-sectoral
spread. The majority of the industrial projects are modernizations and/or
expansions of existing concerns, with only a small number of creations of
new firms. A substantial proportion of projects in the pipeline are located
in the interior of the country.  SOFIDE is providing predominantly foreign
exchange financing, with a higher proportion of local currency financing for
agricultural projects.
50.       Financial Forecasts.  The recent devaluations of the zaire have
resulted in a substantial increase in the zaire value of forecast approvals,
Agricultural approvals are estimated to have increased by 20 percent in real
terms in 1979, and are projected to remain at that level until 1981 and then
grow by 5 percent per annum through 1983. Industrial approvals are estimated
to have declined by one-third in real terms in 1979, and are expected to
continue to decline by 10 percent per annum through 1981 before increasing by
5 percent per annum through 1983. The projected growth in lending operations
coupled with the increased interest rates are expected to result in rapid
growth in the interest revenues, which is likely to be sufficient from 1980
onwards to offset the increasing cost of resources and the rising adminis-
trative costs. As a result, net profits after tax are expected to rise from
0.9 percent of average total assets in 1980 to 1.5 percent in 1981, 1982 and
1983 despite the inflationary environment, payment of income tax (from
which SOFIDE was previously exempted) from 1980 onwards, and a conservative
provision policy.
51.       Resources Requirements.  As of August 31, 1979, SOFIDE had uncom-
mited foreign reserves of US$0.4 million. SOFIDE's projected foreign exchange
resource requirements for the period September 1979 to June 1981 amount to
about US$51.9 million equivalent. SOFIDE is seeking to cover the gap of
US$51.5 million with additional resources from: IDA (US$18.5 million),
KfW (US$5.0 million), CIDA (US$5.0 million), SBI (US$7.0 million) and ADB
(US$9.0 million) and CCCE (US$7.0 million). Local currency resource require-
ments over the same period amount to US$21.0 million equivalent, of which
US$14.0 million equivalent would be met from net cash generation, from the
Special Fund for Agriculture and further rolled-over IDA counterpart funds
(supplemental letter). The local currency resource gap at commitment level
will amount to US$7.0 million equivalent by mid-1981. Due to the lag between
commitment and disbursement of funds however, SOFIDE will be able to meet its
disbursement requirements through 1981 and, after 1981, the increasing volume
of net cash generation together with partial liquidation of current assets
will provide SOFIDE with sufficient local currency resources. In addition
SOFIDE can, if necessary, rediscount loans with BDZ.



- 16 -
Objectives of the Proposed IDA Credit
52.       The proposed US$18.5 million Credit, which would cover about 36
percent of SOFIDE's foreign exchange requirements or 26 percent of its total
resource requirements from September 1, 1979 to June 30, 1981, would represent
a substantial shift in sectoral focus of SOFIDE's operations. Whereas
previous IDA credits to SOFIDE have mainly helped finance medium and large
scale projects in industry and tourism, the proposed credit would provide at
least US$7.5 million to finance projects in the agricultural and agroindustry
sectors; up to US$3.0 million would be for working capital financing of
existing high priority projects in SOFIDE's portfolio; up to US$0.23 million
would be for technical assistance and training needs; the remainder, up to
a maximum of US$7.77 million, would be for investments in the industrial and
transportation sectors. The objectives of the Credit would be:
(a) to pursue efficient allocation of investments in priority sub-
sectors of agriculture, transportation and industry;
(b) to mobilize financial resources, held particularly by the
Zairian private sector, for productive investments;
(c) to assist in the development of local managerial capabilities;
and
(d) to continue to support the operations and the institutional
development of an effective financial institution largely run by
Zairians.
53.       In order to achieve these objectives, SOFIDE has, since the end of
1978, adopted and successfully began to implement a new investment strategy
(supplemental letter). In accordance with this strategy, SOFIDE will give
priority in its lending to agriculture, transportation and industrial
projects which can help develop the exploitation and processing of local
raw materials, have low imported input requirements and aim at increasing
production and employment in the interior of the country. It will pay
particular attention to projects promoted by Zairian majority-owned firms.
Appraisal of projects for SOFIDE's financing will include more comprehensive
economic analysis. Whereas previously economic rates of return were cal-
culated only on import-substitution projects, SOFIDE would from now on
provide a complete economic analysis (including calculation of the economic
rate of return) for all non-service sector projects except for small-scale
enterprises (Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Project Agreement); and
qualitative economic analysis for service sector and small-scale enterprise
projects (Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       The Credit would be utilized as follows:
(a) Agriculture (at least US$7.5 million): In addition to
financing larger agroindustrial projects, SOFIDE is promoting
and financing small and medium scale predominantly Zairian-



- 17 -
owned projects in three subsectors: livestock; fruit and
vegetable products; and agro-industry and forestry. These
projects are designed to produce foodstuffs for the major
urban centers and thereby help reduce the level of food
imports. Given the transport constraints which affect the
agricultural sector, many of the projects would be close to
urban centers, and would include a transportation component
to facilitate shipment of products to the cities or to the
processing centers. SOFIDE requires and helps identify
experienced management for the projects and will only
disburse when adequate management and technical expertise
have been found. An attempt is already made and would
continue to be made to distribute projects more evenly
between the regions: as of January 1979, 26 percent of the
agricultural projects in the Project pipeline were in the
Shaba region, about 15 percent each in Kivu and Bas-Zaire, 8
percent each in Bandundu, Equateur, Haut-Zaire, and the
Kasais, and the remaining 12 percent in the other regions
(excluding Kinshasa).
(b) Transportation (up to US$7.7 million total for both trans-
portation and industry): The Zairian transportation sector
is beset by three basic problems: shortage of fuel, partic-
ularly in the interior, the deteriorating state of the
highways and an acute lack of transportation equipment in
good condition. SOFIDE's pipeline includes a limited number
of transportation projects, many of which include a servicing/
maintenance component. The basic objectives of lending to
such projects would be to facilitate the movement of products
along main transport arteries (e.g. Matadi-Kinshasa) and the
transfer of agricultural and industrial products from the
interior to the urban centers and for export. Financing such
projects would only have a small impact on the overall
transportation problems of Zaire. It would, however,
complement other Bank Group lending to the transporta-
tion sector in Zaire (paras. 19-23).
(c) Industry: Most of the industrial sector in Zaire at present
is operating at well below installed capacity for various
reasons including reduced demand as well as lack of spare
parts, shortages of local and foreign raw materials and
transportation problems. However, despite the economic
crisis, good market prospects exist for a number of products.
Moreover, the majority of industrial projects in SOFIDE's
pipeline would be rehabilitation projects, which are required
to protect the industrial base of Zaire and defend industrial
employment. The new or expansion projects would be financed
only when there is a clear need to meet a continuing un-
satisfied demand for manufactured products.



- 18 -
(d)   Working Capital (up to US$3.0 million):  Many of SOFIDE's
sub-borrowers are operating below break-even capacity level
because of low imported input stock levels caused by reduced
availability of foreign exchange. To protect SOFIDE's
portfolio from the potentially serious short-term effects of
this situation, an amount of up to US$3 million would be
allocated to finance on an emergency basis the foreign
exchange working capital for high priority projects in
SOFIDE's portfolio. Such assistance would be provided only
in cases where a firm's inability to obtain foreign exchange
from any other sources for importation of inputs and spare
parts would, if allowed to continue, cause it to close
once existing stocks had been exhausted. It would be princi-
pally geared to small, locally-owned companies, producing
entirely for the local market and lacking external corporate
affiliation which might otherwise offer prospects of supply.
Temporary foreign exchange working capital assistance
would be provided as a one-time, non-renewable facility, and
would cover up to a maximum of 12 months requirements,
depending on the type of firm (supplemental letter). The
minimum maturity of these loans would be 2 years and the
interest rates charged and conditions regarding foreign
exchange risk would be the same as those proposed for term
investment financing (para. 55(b)). To make sure that firms
applying for such assistance have not already received
foreign exchange allocations from the banking system for the
same period of operations, the Banque du Zaire has agreed to
assist SOFIDE in checking allocations already granted by the
commercial banks.
(e) Technical Assistance and Equipment (up to US$230,000): With
the current acute shortage of foreign exchange in Zaire, SOFIDE
has been experiencing difficulty in financing the equipment
required to open its new regional offices and to train staff
overseas. Therefore up to US$230,000 of the proposed credit
will be provided for (a) equipping the new regional offices
(US$190,000) and (b) technical assistance and staff training
(US$40,000).
Terms and Conditions
55.       The proposed Fifth Line of Credit to SOFIDE would carry the follow-
ing terms and conditions:
(a) Onlending Rate to SOFIDE: The Credit would be onlent by
the Borrower to SOFIDE at 8.25 percent interest rate.
(Section 3.01(b) of draft Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
(b) Onlending Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk: SOFIDE would seek
to charge its subborrowers positive real interest rates
(including commission) and would review these rates with
IDA every six months (Section 2.01 (b) of draft Project
Agreement). As under the four previous credits, loans
made by SOFIDE under the Fifth Credit would only finance
foreign exchange expenditures. SOFIDE would onlend to small-
scale and medium and large-scale subborrowers at a minimum of
15 percent interest, plus a 1.5 percent commitment fee and 1
percent appraisal commission (Subsidiary Loan Agreement). This
represents a substantial increase over the previous rate of
12.5 percent, and since the foreign exchange risk, which is
considerable under prevailing economic conditions, would be
passed on to all medium- and large-scale subborrowers (Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement), the cost of borrowing IDA funds from
SOFIDE would be positive in real terms for these borrowers.
For small-scale enterprises, defined as Zairian majority-owned
projects with total assets not exceeding Z 200,000 or about
US$98,000 equivalent, the Government would carry the exchange
risk for a 2.5 percent per annum fee (Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment). Although such onlending conditions for small-scale
enterprises would not be positive in real terms, they would
represent a substantial increase over previous rates,
while remaining favorable enough to enable SOFIDE to operate
with this type of enterprise. Individual loans made by
SOFIDE to this category of clients, would not exceed US$100,000
equivalent (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Government would also carry the foreign exchange risk on
the technical assistance and equipment component (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
(c)  Free Limit:  In view of the continuous improvement in the
quality of SOFIDE's appraisal work the free limit for
projects in all sectors would be raised from US$150,000
to US$250,000 and the aggregate free limit from US$2
million to US$7 million (Section 2.02(b) of draft Credit
Agreement).
(d)  Debt-Equity Ratio:  Under the Fourth IDA Credit SOFIDE was
required to maintain its debt-equity ratio below 3:1.
The overall situation of SOFIDE's portfolio is sound and
its level of arrears compares favorably with that of other
African DFCs. SOFIDE has taken a number of measures to
forestall the possible adverse impact of arrears and
doubtful loans on its financial situation by increasing
special provisions and reserves and stepping up its
supervision effort. In addition, part of the proposed
credit would be utilized to finance working capital needs
to alleviate the short term problems that lead some of



- 20 -
its clients into arrears (para. 54(d)). Because of the circum-
stances mentioned above and also because SOFIDE has been able
since its creation in 1970 to develop soundly and stay in a
satisfactory financial situation despite the difficult
environment it has been operating in, it was agreed during
negotiation that the debt/equity ratio limit would be raised
to 5:1 (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement). In
order to maintain the ratio at that level, SOFIDE would
submit to the Association by June 1980, a plan to restructure
its equity and increase its share capital to a reasonable
level for its projected level of operations (supplemental
letter). As a further interim measure, the Government has
converted into quasi-equity the necessary amounts of Govern-
ment loans made from rolled-over IDA funds.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement for the subprojects refinanced under the credit would
be in accordance with the standard IDA practice for development banks. The
proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed on SOFIDE subloans as
follows: (a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or services for
eligible subprojects; (b) up to 85 percent of the cost of previously imported
equipment which is purchased locally for the subprojects; (c) up to 70 percent
of the cost of equipment produced in Zaire substantially from previously
imported components or raw materials; (d) up to 55 percent of the cost of
construction works included in subprojects and carried out by Zairian contrac-
tors; and (e) the equivalent of foreign exchange costs of equipment, vehicles
and supplies required for the operations of SOFIDE's regional offices,
and of the training of professional staff of SOFIDE up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $230,000 (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
57.       The main benefits of the Project would be to help preserve Zaire
industrial capacity and develop local food production (para. 52). Also,
continuing World Bank Group support to SOFIDE would help enhance the capacity
of this institution to make natural and autonomous decisions on the basis of
objective criteria of economic priority. It would further SOFIDE's insti-
tutional development as well as increase its ability to acquire additional
lines of credit from other external sources of foreign exchange so that it
can play an increasingly significant intermediation role in Zaire.
58.       In addition to current uncertainties about future economic develop-
ments in Zaire, the main risks of this project relate essentially to the
impact on SOFIDE's subborrowers of: (a) the shortage of foreign exchange
for the imports of raw materials and spare parts (para. 34); and (b) the rate
of inflation (para. 42). Both these factors could have a serious effect
on the ability of SOFIDE's clients to service their debt which in turn might
affect the liquidity and financial condition of SOFIDE; however the working
capital component is designed to alleviate the first type of risks.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and SOFIDE, two draft Supplemental Letters from the Republic of Zaire and from
SOFIDE, respectively, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and
the text of the draft Resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Features of the draft Credit and Project Agreements and Supplemental
Letters of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 53, 54, 55 and 56
and are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report. An additional
condition of effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and SOFIDE has been entered into (Section 5.01 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMYENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 29, 1980



-22   -                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
ZAIRE - SOCTAL IND ICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ANERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. 124. I                                                - KOS' RECENT EST:HAIE)
TOTAL           2345.4                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     309.5                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   DNCOME        DNCOHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b       tREGION /c   GROUP  d    .ROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA [USSI                   90.0        150.0     210.0           306.1       209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
tEILOGRAMS or COAL EQUIVALENT)       87.0        81.0      62.0             80.6       S3.9        262.1
POPLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    17.5          21.3      25.7
UtBAN POPULATION (PaERCNT 0o  TOTAL) 19.7        21.7       26.1            17.1        16.2        Z4.6
POPULATION PROJ1STIONS
POPVLATION IN YEAR 2000 (MYLLIONS)                       46.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        122.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2160
POPULATION DENSITS
PER SQ. RF.                         7.0         9.0       11.0            18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. EN. AGRCICULTURAI. LAND    58.0        69.0      83.0             50.8      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGC  STRUCTURE (PCRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.J        44.4      43.0             44.1       43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        52.8      54.0             52.9       53.2         51.9
65 YrS. AND AOVE                     3.8         2.8       3.0              2.8        3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWT  RAiE (PGENCXT)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.0        2.7             2.7        2.4          2.7
URBAN                                ..         5.1       5.4              5. 7       4.6          4. 3
CRUDE 3IRTS  UTE (PUR THOUSAND)      48.0        46.8       46.0            46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PUR THOUSAND)      24.0        21.0       19.0            17.2        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         2.8        3.0             3.1         2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLASNING
ACEPTORSOU  ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..         ..
USERS (PCRCENT OF NARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..        ..               ..       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          101.8       101.0      95.0             94.3       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMNTS)                     92.0        92.0      85.0             89.5       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           33.0        33.0      32.1             55.8       52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        16.0/t   12.5              17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (ACGS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      37.0        31.0       27.0            22.3        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.5         43.0      46.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..         ..              ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PER CENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        11.0       16.0            20.3       26.3         34.4
URBAN                                ..        33.0      43.0             53.9       58.5         57.9
RURAL                                ..         4.0       5.0             10.1       15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCIETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         5.0      22.0             22.5       16.0         40.8
URBAN                                ..         5.0      67.0             62.5       65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..         5.0       6.0             13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PE  PHYSICIAN          63000.0     30040.0         ..         17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..     13230.0         ..          2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                *-       320.0     330.0LI          502.3     1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                ..        90.0     110.0/2          201.4      197.3        272.7
RURAL                                *-      1070.0    1000.0/L         1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..          ..        ..             23.4        24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..             4.9        5.3          5.4
URIAN                                ..         6.1        ..              4.9        4.9          5.1
RURAL                               ..           ..       6.0              5.5        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE HOMIER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..         ..
WRA2                                ..           ..        ..A.
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINOGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       22.5         26.1
tURAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       17.8         45.1
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          9. 9



- 23  -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE G-ROUPS (ADJUTSTED A',E:ACIS
ZAIRE                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 60.0        90.0       86.0            59.0        63.3        S2.7
MALE                 82.0        114.0         ..            64.2       79.1         87.3
FEMALE               38.0         66.0        ..             44.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         9.0       13.0             9.0        16.7        21.4
MALE                  4.0         14.0         *-            12.0       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                1.0          4.0        *-              4.4       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  27.0          10.0      14.0Lj.           7.0        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            40.0        43.0       42.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                          20.0        20.0       27.0            22.9        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        31.0/h       13.0      15.0            20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         3.0        3.5             4.0         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUtATION                          3.0         3.0      101.0            44.3        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.3        0.3              2.9        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.0         9.0         ..              5.6        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1          0.1        0.1             0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8340.0     10460.0   10600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   43.8        42.8       42.3            31.9        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.4        79.3       76.0            77.6        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.8        10.8       13.0             7.9        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                47.7        44.9       43.6             40.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 54.4         52.1      50.9             53.9       52.4         48.5
FEMALE                               41.2        37.9       36.5            25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.0       1.1              1.2        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
8IGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..               ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AJSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            187.6       99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0            96.8        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      76.0           138.4        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      43.0            71.0        54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            34.5        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0            48.7        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geosecric means, excluding the extreme
values of che indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabilicy of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capica, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
(S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  1965;  /g  1973;  /h  1962.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.



-  ~~~~4- ~~ANNEX I
DEIII FSCCIAL INDICATORH                                                     Page   3   of   5
ots:Ahog  the data aee  draw  ten  sor                    -1gusly judgd the mot mathritative ed reliable, it should also be noted that they ma  not be interon-
Tly         1ral  beosus  of the lank of standodioed defWatio    and o-opts used bys dif fert coutries to collecting ths data. The data are, nontheless,
use ful to descibe order  of   gntude, indicate treds, nod ebrateriaecrak                    ao  differeoce  batwee  co-trie..
The!     ~          fl94fn .r e   frtnook iodiotor are poolntioa-wightsd geometric an.  ecidiug the eutrem   -e.ls  of the indicator and the  -ot popolted
ocutryin  achgrop.   oeto las  of data, grop averege  of all iodinatorn foe Capital Surplus Oil  aporters and of indicators of Access to Water nod Rocretn
Dispos.ul, Husieg, I-c   ldistribution  -d Povety for other oostr  groups ar  pp.uatie-enighted gatric  me-   without sec ioula  of the  otceme celue  nod
the most poplated coutry.  Pin   heovrsno  ooutri.es   Mff th   niaosdpsa   elaiyo   aand is nt uniform. catico naut benexrcised
indicator at a tim   a       h     utend refernc  groP..
LAND ARNA (thousand sq.km.)                                                                  A"ro.nes to f    PtcretDTisposal(orct of1 pod uaion                 - otl,ura, end rurl-
____t_   Tte.1 sufac  nro  coprising 1d are  and inland eaters.                               Ese   o   eol   totlIra,adrra)sre   o                          rto   ipsla
giutua     ost recet eetigtn  of arcutra          .re   sd tnprarily                peoetegenif their repective poplati-e  Eoc-tn dipcl may  tInlde
orpemasctly for crps, yactues, macet nod kitche  grden  or to                            the collctin  sd disposal, nith or nithout treatm-t, of base   orct:s
lie  fallow,                                                                               an   ntewtrby  ater-borce syotn    or the use of pit pricies and cl
GE   C   IT  (OI)- GNP' Per capita. estimates at curret maket peines                   poog5pMpL          r. a        Population dividedtby nomber of pr-cticiog physician
te   a    - cneios method as World lank Atlas (1976-7  bots;i                                         cal shool at u       ivesiy le-Il
1960), 1970, nod 1978 data.                                                                Pplto   e fursing Perso  - Population dividd by outer of praticIng malt
gM1FY Canpopryio  PRP CAPITA - Ancual  -ceoption of ocareca    ..r                              ndfml grauae  ures, practical su e,ed acoistact  -.em
(coa  ed lignite, perlu,ntural ga  and bydro-,  -Ia.e- andge-                             Popultion per Hospdital Pei; rtto Ital, rb          and  -rurl -  ouaIonI  (total,u c
thermal electricity) Lc hilogra          of oa.l equ1icalet pee o-pita; 1960,                no   ua)dvddbyteresec                          ou ter oftepl  edo scilinbtir inte
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                         public and private general and epecialiondho.ptL anre biltoctr
Hospitals are rsta1lhlisa te  permanetly atffd by at leat co   dchyti-no.
POPULiATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICSI                                                              Eatablish-eto providing principally custodial onceare not included. RuralI
Tota  Po     tlaton, mAd-tea  (illions)   A.i of July 1; 1960, 1970, end                     hospitals,hboweer, inclde health and medical ceter. not permerItly clofted
19?daa                                                                                     by a physcia  (hot by a medical assistant, nure, aldoife, ett. ) ohih offer
Urba .Pop lato   (1peet. ofrtotal    RPtio of urban to total population;                 In-patient  -coadation  and pro-lde a limlted rane of medical facilitr..
dfretdfntionsoe     ra   ra  may affect c-qpabillty of data                    Ad .misosPer Hopibtalt ed- Total ou.ter of adnisions to or diochargo  froe
gs coutries; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data                                                   hospital  diLed h   i    ue   of beds.
ptltlpp,4g,yPvj-tio..
Powl.ti- " Y-       - forr-t populotho   projection  arebaed on                 HOUSHING
1975 total Poplaio  by age and seed their mortality and fertility                     Avrg   ice of Household (persons per household) - total, urban, and r-ca  -
rae.Poetion paramters for eIrtlity rates  oprs  of there                         A        Mhuehl  conists  f   group of indiciduao who shs-  liolog qurter  end
Lecsasuing life nopectancy at birth ice o   nith coutry'stermi   el.Ahadro   ode a.raynth   ciddi  tie
p7rcait  inom      -lve, and female life eupeotany stbilisiag at                         hocosehld for statistical PurPoses.
75yee.The permte- for fertility rate also hav  three irvel                     Avea   sm-ber  fof  ersos  erro        - total  -b-a, and flrl- Horruge number
ensoiog decline in fetility'acor,ding to Loom  level anmd past                           of Pero.    per coo  in. aFll-orb, and rural ocop,ied ccotloo.. leelliont.,
family cloning performnc. tEch coutry is thou assigned on  of these                     -epeotteely.  Dnelling.ecolude no -pnuet o17trocurc.add oo-pc. dptc    prtc.
nioc outhouseof mortality end fertility trends for projection                    ALes. to Ee-tricitc  (P,ren  o   wlin) _ total  u rban  an  rual-  on
purposes.                                                         cen~~~~~~~~-tiocal delliags sub  electricity in Iicing q-t.icr  as per-ctagrf
Itatio... y poulation  - n    sutonr  popuation there ieao. growth                         totl , u-hno, ed rura  deelligo  -epectiocly.
e  tceib  birth I ...tcieqatothe dea,th rate, an  also the age
otrutur  rain    _oset. This is _cieved only after fertility rates                 EDItCATION
decline to the repIsoenet leve  of unit net -erduotion rate, when                     Adus-ted tsrlimet Ration
each.goeratio oL   f sa   eplaen Itolf  tnatIly.  The stationary pop-                    Piar col-  tota   mcad femle     rs  total, mae  n  fmle                          roi
atIoI est waetimate  on :ti  baumi of the prujected churoteristica                        meat ofalsestthprmy lvlnpectasofepctiopiap
of the population in the year 2000, end tbe rate of decline of fertility                   school-age  uunioe  nomlyicue hildren aged 6-II yru-  but
rate to replur_cat levl                                                                     djunted for diff-ern  legths o  primary education; for conrc    ith
lea-r etationar7 poultion is reachd - The year  en. etathonr  population                              1 uiesleducatliontnrllrt -ma  sced.100 percnt-.         enos  pupilc
si_e hashen r:eached.                                                                      ar  hebp  or aboveth  ofiia  scI hool ae
Pocolation Dsiy                                                                               eondsrc school _ total   aeadfml   Computedaai.cc-;ocoooar
Per no. Am. -  id-year population pec oqor  kilomter (lt benttrce) of                        eduction require   t    otfu  y=ear   f approcd P,ieny  idc :11.tIc
total araProvides gencrul coctinl  or. tece  tann   iretructic-  or ppi in
Per so. Am   gricultural land - Compted a- aboc for  wi ultural land                         usully of 12 to 17 yearn of ag;orepondenoe core -r  gcovrnlly
osly.                                                                                       -nclded.
Popnlation AMe Stroture (percet) - Childeen  (0-14 yearn), woking-age                        Vcoati.lonlerla          (Poroen.t of secondary) - Voct~ional  i-,titutio-oin-i,dn
(15 -hyas,adeticed   5yearn and ovr npercetages of mid-year                                  techoica, industrial, or other p, roga     stich ,rrte independently or so
popuLatioc;I16,197,ad 1977dat.                                                               depart tent  of secondary iostitutla..
Ponnolation Growth Hate (pecet) - total - Annual eronh raten of total mid-                   Pucil-acerti  -r oriaY.enscodr- Tot.1 ondeotn  -orlld in
yer  oultin  for 195-c   9 70, nod 1970-f?.                                           pL,sc  and u_cIdary lonel  dioided by nubr   f teachers ic th,cor
PecultPion rowitb fRate(pret-uba   - Aotal growth rates of urhen                               speding lvoclo.
Populatoofr1500                07,  n   907.Adult 1iteraoy rate  (percent) - Literate  dolto  (.1,1e tc rend ard ciell)o
-d   t' (p- t".erd)- Annua lIc IL-irtho  per thoonnod of  id-                        aperceotage of total adult popnslntic aged 15 pram   nodco.
year popu1.lain 1-51 O19T0, and 1977 data.
ateD.th R.thosad)  _-Idsna  deatto per thuonod of sid-y-a                          IioPIH
popoIihllyj1977907   _d 977   aa                                                    osne  Cor  (per thoocad popolntioc(  P-.Pcogoe, cor  -oprino  oIct- or
Irons Reproduion Rate - Average ouborof daaghternaou   cill hear                              eating Ieen than night Pe....o;  -o ldon anboloceo, hoscrs and 51 Ii toy
no her nomaI    epod_ctire petilId if she eperi_-c   pecee..t age-ceie.
opecific fert ility ratre; usually fiVe -Ycw    _egen coding in 1960,                   bal   ecioa  erthued poulatIon)   A ll typen cf rcoiofcc 'mdi
1970, and 1975.                                                                           brosdc-ts to geocrtl Pub1lc Pe%rthousan:dof popt.ianio; e-luocclce-               o
Fanny Planing -AccePtors  Annua  (thounede) - A-,ol  -uner of                                recirern i.ootries  and in Ymc  ohcnltwicof radio, -t~ s-  it
oce ptorn of birth-control device  under aupicnof ontilo..l fenlly                         offect; data for  -rcet years sly cot hr "..Pa..ntir oloce  -.o   co  re
L.ang Progr-s                                                                           abolished liceniog.
ruelly Planing - G.erm  (peroett of mco   no   Prrcectsg   of maried                       nc Recivers t(ne  tcusun   popultion) -7 -Vrci_ern or brod_no  U. geo...od
soe   f child-bearig age (15-J4 yearn  sh.  ne hirth-cotrcl d-icen                     public per toted polt  io;  _ocldr                        T un-ecr  Trclicr- in   ri
to nil maried nosr  in  es  ge groop.                                                      and in yearn wh.. regintrotioc of TV sets  a  in effect.
P001 uni Nlj'fOITIhI   .                                              isroe_.Ppayr Ciroulatic  (pe  thouan  oojsltin)- lion  ttraeeociclto
FOODe  ofb fod RITOdutoN     e   aia- doo   e   npt                                           of 'daily genera  in teree.t ocospdpr,  _defTined ano.periodic-I pbli-nti-c
Lode. o  Fod 1Fd-t..  - Cit.(1969-71-ioo      .e  o    e    pt                     dccoted primaily totrecoding greralI cen..  10In cn...ide,rd t0 cc "duily"
uoaprdcion of all food  -oditi-e  Production  .ocludre  -cd end                    Ifiapeaatlntoutio    cm
fordend,P Ino       -dar yea  basis.  Cc.enditiv-co-   priasry goods                    Cinema Annual Atteod-eo pcr Capita  -c  Year -Based  ctht cuobor ..f' tiohotc
t  -. n  -nrcace toeted of sonar) ohi   are: edible no dootaic  -otmien                oId during tie year, io-ludogadin cato  droo-ic ci-ts  cod mcl I
eg. coffe  nod ic  oe  -ocided).  Aggregate prodoction of eah con-           y           ,cio
b, ..ned on nat nl .. oeage prducer Price   eighte.
Per o_pits auPpolro  osMrlc   (pecet of mouulrhnotn) - Compted fron                   I,..IR clf
eergy cquIenet cf oct food supplies  _ciLai  Lc country Per onpits                     oa.ao   oc   tosns  - toon....a-y  no.ti-o peroone, o-loditg omoI
per dAy.  ho ll e  -oppli en  -spioe_d-antic produo ti-, Imports Leen                 forces nod unemplyed hut co-luding ho. sicc  node               t -,n     D,fi cit.,co
-oporte,'and chagen Inotoc.   et opp lien co_lde anian  feed, seeds,                     Ic  -aio.. --utrco are not _oaparble.
qoantitis used in food prooronig, and Ice- o is dIn ,trlboti.n. Rnquire-              Feae       rot      eae   lao  force .n pe-erntago of  ,tota  labor f--oc
_cto wer:ectimated by fAG basnd cc   inlclgircnleedo  for ocreal                                          -t4ptr..p0e)) -lbor forc  Infanig  forctry, hunting and
urticity and health couid-rig encir~ neta1 temperstu-, body seighto,                     fishing an percetage of  ctal labor force
ag  nd  co dletributlons of popultic-, nod nilcaing 10 percent fcc                  Industry (percent) - Lab-r force   Ic iting   oosrutl Io'eoofnoun   too
u_tentb_oehold Iecel.                                                                   electricity, eater nod  .. an percetage cf tota1lbmOo  force.
Prr capito supply ofprotein (gram  per day) - Pro tein  ocotent ot per                   Participatinbt(pre)- tota   asi, nd finle  - Participation  oer
caiantsppl  of food, pe  dyNt oupply of food is dindnatct atsaecoptda  totl  mae,no  foen-  labor forc  as per
above. Rnquireneto11 foral  couties established by USIA p-uide for a                      -etages of total, sale and female popolniono   i  aerseciey
wlnmo  aloane 6o0A gram   of total protein per day and 20 gram   of                 1960, 191,ad 1975 dais.  Th-esare 1100tp_ttitiorae reflecting
unima  end poIse protein, of eIhio  10 or-  should he enimo  protein,                   o n-ec  strcturn of thepopolatioc, end longtime trend.  A fe- eatimaten
Tenstandarde are loser than those of 71, gra1 of total prteint and                     ar   rom  ntional  _oue
27 gram   of animal protein asnoavrge for the sor1d, proposed by PAO                   RnsmoIeedncHtlo  -  Ratio of popoltio-  oder 15 eni h5 podoert
in tie Third Wrld food lo..ey.           .telbrfcein.age rop of 15-hi years.
Per c"P"' Prom    supply from nosa  no d pulse - Protein supply of food
derived fron. animal  ed pulses in gram   per day.                                  INCOME DINTRIWfIONI
Child (ames i-4) Motltyst  (per -bond  - Aonuo1 deatho  e  thousad                         Perena   o  Pivte  no~me lboth incah and kind)   R- hclcdbyroeu
iag   ru    -i yers,toM 1 oidrecinthi  ag   ru;frms   e -                          5pret, rIchest DOpeoentt, poret M0pret   clpooresty 1peonot
opiag c-otrien data dericed fron Life tabls                                                of households.
ttA.TO                                                                                     POVERTY TARGST GROUPS
Life Eopot-oY et B95fl9.. ryoprp   -_d-rage nobr of years of Ife                          Entimated Absolute P-ronly Income2 Leve  (i   pe  cata  - hnbri nrra,
bit;1 ,      ,ad197   aa.Aslt  poery  ncmelee  is  ha  ica _ee   eb oih :I nImral
Infant Mortality Hate laserth-uand         Annual deaths of infeta under one                 outritioeally adequate diet pl   essen..tial no-food  -equir-eneto  i  oct
yearof age pee thousad I        lce thib.                                               affordable.
AostoR fe sne  )nercet of poplaio)  Ittotalourban   n   ua                         stae        rto    Lovrt 15c   ivhl (ipi                         rg per caialpura indrua 
oaf eeter suply(lae              ete.td sufaeo  sate. or untreatedht                       ymr-om    inca  o~f the coutry. Urban 1-c1 i. derived from  the rura  le-eI
.. otensted eater such as that fro  Protected boreholes, springs,                        with adjustment for higher cot of liviag in urbanaes
nd saitary anli) na p-rotages of their r-spetic  populati-s  In                         lati_ted isnnulatl   salon AbsouePvrt   na   evl(eet)-ubnad
anuban arc  a public foutain or stuAnp    located ant Mor  thain                         rua       ecn        pplton(ra   n   ua)ooaeabsolute  cr
It meters fro   a hos  may be  -omiderd as Wing sithia  esoal
that the h-.-seife or meter  of the h-nacho1d do not hare to speed a                                                               Snnol  ass Hooba  Data Ddivisio
disproportiona.te part of the day is fetchiagf the fenily's water needsetooi  Analysis and Projootins Department
August 1979



ANNEX 1
-25                                      Page 4 of5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH %, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                        1970-74             1975-76            1977
GNP at Market Prices            5,044.6     100.0                           5.3               -5.8
Gross Domestic Investment       1,035.6       20.5                         10.3              _21.0              -521
Gross National Saving             382.6        7.6                         16.3               21,5               7.3
Current Account Balance         -650.7      -12.9                                             2
Exports of Goods, NFS           1,290,0      25.6                          10.0               -1.6              -0.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          1,780,2       35.3                           8.0               -7.5            -16.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197T
Value Added
US$Mln. 
Agriculture                    1,400.2       26.5
Industry                       1,056.6       20.0
Services                       2,826.0       53.4
Unallocated
Total/Average           5,282.8 1/  100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 2/                            Central Government
- (    ln.)           Of CGDP                    (     Mln.)         j of CGDP
I19            Y7        Il75r-76                 1978        1978         lYT5- i77
Current Receipts                     810.5         24.8          26.7                   731.0        11.4          21.0
Current Expenditure                  964.6         2             325                1.175.4          18.4          25.7
Current Surplus                     -154.1         _4.7          -5.3                  -444.4        -7.0          -4.7
Capital Expenditures                 275.5          8,4          11.0                   128.6         2.0           5.2
External Assistance (net)            158.1          4.8           4.7
NO)EY, CREDIT and PRICEBS                   1970          19           1975        1976         19           1978    1979
(Mlllion  Z  outstanding end period)M                      (July)
Money and Quasi Money                       231.3         490.4        534.2        738.1      1,153.9     1,854.5   2,400.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                99.7          393.0        507.5        831.6     1,054.8      1,578.3   2,095.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                42.9         233.8        319.4        385.7        537.0       644.9      709,2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of CGDP           24.3          31.6         34.6         29.3         28.9         29.0
Oeneral Price Index (19To - 100)  /         100.0         196.3        278.9        476.7        T7hT.5    1,439.4   2,401.1 5/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index  4/                       .            96.3         42.1         70.9        56.8         92.6        99.0 5/
Bank Credit to Public Sector                13.4         294.1          29.1        63.9         26.9         49.6        62.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                53.8         69.8          36.6        20.8         39.2         20.1        40.9
NOTEt  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ GDP at factor cost.
j/ Consolidated cash and non-cash Central Government transactions (mostly foreign grants and loans to
finance technical assistance and investment projects).
Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures financed by foreign aources.
Xt Retail price index (veighted average of market and shop indices), monthly average for last month of period.
5/ As of 8eptember 19T9.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
-  26  -                                          Page S of 5
TRADE PAnDIMTs AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYONTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     197T     1978                                                 US $ Min    %
(millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,135.7  1,290.0 1,672.9                Copper                             557.3   42.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        '.980.4  1,780.2 1,550.6                Cobalt                             152.7   11.6
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       4      -4902   122.3!               Zinc                                38.7    2.9
Diamonds                           84.8    6.4
Interest Payments (net)  i   -149,o   -152.9  -184.8                 Coffee                             166.3   12.6
Workers' Remittances          -105.1    -190.9 -156.7                Rubber                              23.3    1.8
Other Factor Payments (net)   -49.T    -36.0  -35.2
Net Transfers                  156.2    2192 3  191.3                All other commodities              295.0   22.4
Balance on Current Account  -992.2   _65o 7   _63.1                        Total                      1,318.1  100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       -          -       _               EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              5b5.1      448.8   264.7                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization 2/           -191.0    -293.0  -316.0
Subtotal                       T     155.8  _51.3                 Public Debt,  inl. guaranteed           3,856.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               304. 0o
Other Capital (net)           169.8        8.6  -147.7               Total outstanding & Disbursed            4,160o0
Other itm  n.e.i i            361.8      5S4-o   352 7/
Increase in Reserves (+)    4.6 5        68. 5 . 94                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for  l977-
Gross Reserves (end year) Y   174.3     294.2    528.3
Net Reserves   (end year).   -102.9     334.4      64.0              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                9.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      75.4     121.6    125.7
of which:  Petroleum      (75.4)   (121.6)  (125.7)
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        -                            IBRD/IDA LENDING. December 31, 1979, US$million
RATE OF EXCHANGE From March 12. 1976 to November 1. 1978 8/                                             IBRD        IDA
Zaire 1.00 = SDR 1.00                        Outstanding & Disbursed                76.34      138.04
From January 2, 1979 to August 23, 1979  Since August 24,1979  Undisbursed                              23.66       109.46
US $1.00 = Z 1.56                          Z 1=SDR 0.375 =        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        100.00       247.50
1.00 = SDR 0.5 = us$o.64                      us$o.45
1/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.  Represcnts &Eedalpayments
2/ Scheduled payments on public debt.
3/  Includes net errors and omissions and exceptional financing and reserve movements (debt rescheduling,
net accumulation of arrears, IMF Trust Fund and valuation gain on gold sales).
4/ Foreign assets of the banking system (Bank of Zaire and commercial banks). As of end-July 1979, gross
reserves stood at US$355.6 million.
Net foreign assets (narrow) of the banking system. Does not include arrears.
6/  Estimated amounts incurred prior to 1978.
7/  Estimated.
The zaire was devalued in four stages between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979.
not available
not applicable
February 19, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of December 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                             Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower    Purpose              Bank         IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Prior to      Congo &     Transport
June 1960    Otraco        Infrastructure    91.58 2/
Two Credits Fully Disbursed                                           40.00
255        1971       ZAIRE        River Transport                    7.00      0.66
272        1972       ZAIRE        Education                          6.50      2.54
398        1974       ZAIRE        Livestock                          8.50      2.08
463         1974      ZAIRE        DFC III                           10.00      0.05
1090         1975      ZAIRE        GECAMINES          100.00                   23.66
536        1975       ZAIRE        Highway III                      26.00       2.26
571         1975      ZAIRE        Rail-River II                    26.00       6.88
625        1976       ZAIRE        Water Supply                     21.50       4.61
624        1976       ZAIRE        Education II                     21.00      20.07
660        1977       ZAIRE        Cotton Reha-
bilitation                       8.00       6.23
697        1978       ZAIRE        Ituri Livestock
Development                      8.00       6.58
710        1978       ZAIRE        Fourth DFC                        10.00      2.50
796 3/     1978       ZAIRE        Oil Palm                           9.00      9.00
902 3/     1979       ZAIRE        Railways                          20.00     20.00
916 3/      1979      ZAIRE        Highway IV                        26.00     26.00
Total (less cancellations):                       191.58        247.50    133.12
- of which has been repaid                         91.58            0
Total now outstanding:                            100.00        247.50
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 100.00        247.50
Total Undisbursed:                                 23.66        109.46    133.12
1/   Prior to Exchange adjustments.
2/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                 Type of           Amount in US$ Millions
Year           Obligor                Business           Loan   Equity    Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Development (SOFIDE)        DFC               -       0.76      0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company   Oil Company           2.50     -        2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company  Oil Company           1.61     -        1.61
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                     4.11   0.76       4.87
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1090       Mining Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of March 8,
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Original Closing
Date: December 31, 1978; Present Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project, which was cofinanced with the Libyan Arab Foreign
Bank and EIB, consists of expanding the production facilities of the state-
owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an addi-
tional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year
of cobalt in the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Following the invasion of
Kolwezi in May 1978, project implementation was stopped. An Amendment
Agreement was signed in November 1979. It allows for the carrying out of a
rehabilitation plan and partial completion of the expansion program while
postponing the construction of the remaining plant units of the original
expansion program. The rehabilitation of Kolwezi has now been completed but
major delays are encountered in the replacement of equipment and in the
rehabilitation of the processing plants and workshops. The partial completion
of the expansion program has begun and the start-up of the concentrator has
been scheduled for March 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and witlh the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit 710        Fourth DFC; US$10 million Credit of August 2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided
a substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment
of US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of
US$10 million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1976. SOFIDE started
operating on July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.
In May 1973, a Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior
Advisor, replaced the Bank-seconded General-Manager. The institution has
developed into a well run and capable development bank, despite the policies
of zairianization/retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and finan-
cial sectors. SOFIDE has recently diversified its activities by increasing
its operations in key economic sectors, especially agriculture and transport-
ation. SOFIDE has also decentralized its operation and has recently opened
three regional offices. In 1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department
conducted a project performance audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found
that SOFIDE had been generally successful in fulfilling its objectives and had
developed into a competent organization. The Fourth Credit is nearly totally
committed.
Credit 398        Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project was designed to increase beef output in the Shaba
region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) through the provision of technical support and funds for training
agriculturalists. Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly.
Initially, a major constraint was the poor performance of the consulting
firm selected to implement the project, which led to its displacement in
1976. The project was revised in January 1978 in particular to develop a
training program in animal production and range management and to finance
the foreign exchange element of current expenditures on the three ranches.
The management of ONDE has tried to improve performance but limited managerial
capacity and inadequate performance of local and expatriate staff and lack
of supervision capability still constitute major problems. The financial
situation of the project has deteriorated for lack of financial management and
budgetary control. There are however some signs of progress: the Lubumbashi
liaison office is functioning satisfactorily; recruitment of new directors for
the ranches and of a financial director for headquarters is underway; producer
beef prices were increased in December 29, 1979, and budgetary funds for 1979
have been partly released. We received in January the auditors' report on
the 1978 accounts of ONDE. We have reviewed this report and a supervision
mission is expected to discuss it with ONDE's management. We are waiting
for the conclusionSof the mission to take a decision regarding the extension
of the closing date, which was December 31, 1979.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Credit 697        Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2. 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Canadian International Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three
ranches to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter
facilities. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision of
counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the Kisangani-
Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary commodities,
insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays in
setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Implementa-
tion is now in progress. Constraints remain the very high costs in the
project area, high rates of inflation, the low prices for beef and the
need to ensure the project's financial autonomy through the setting up of a
revolving fund. Beef prices were increased in December 1979, and budgetary
funds for 1979 were released in early January 1980. The ranch component has
not yet started as the planned transfer of the ranches from Kilomines to
ONDE has not yet taken place. The slaughterhouse component and the training
program are expected to start shortly.
Credit 660        Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981, Cofinanced by Belgium
The project aimed at helping the Zairian Government to rehabilitate
cotton production in the Equateur region through reorganization of the
buying, transportation, and ginning operations of the National Textile Fibers
Authority (ONAFITEX) in the project area. It also includes rehabilitation
of the network of roads linking the production areas. The project faces
serious implementation problems. The Government dissolved ONAFITEX, the
agency responsible for project implementation on May 5, 1978 and IDA was
not consulted prior to the event. Although the Government has made an effort
to define interim arrangements to allow project implementation to continue,
the consequences of ONAFITEX's dissolution for the project were far-reaching,
and organization, management, and financing arrangements required extensive
revision. For over a year, project execution remained at a standstill
because the project management team worked in an uncertain situation without
clear authority over staff, facilities, or resources. The government, however,
has recently created a new regional company which replaces ONAFITEX for the
Equateur region; after review of the statutes of this company, the Credit
Agreement and related documents will be amended as appropriate. Budgetary
funds have been provided for 1979.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Credit 796-ZR    Oil Palm Prolect - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978;
Terminal date for effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983; Cofinanced by ADF, BADEA, CCCE
The project consists of a five-year program to support the rehab-
ilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for replanting
and new plantings, renewal of oil mill and transport equipment, improvement
and expansion of social infrastructure, the employment of additional staff,
and training of staff.  Effectiveness has been delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government to accept the terms of
the formers' participation in the Project and by administrative bottlenecks in
particular in the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, legal difficulties arose
between the Government and CCCE with respect to the Government's guarantee
applied to the CCCE loan. Several conditions of effectiveness remain to be
fulfilled: signature by the Government of the subsidiary loan agreement
with one of the oil palm companies; signature by the CCCE of the credit
agreement with SOFIDE and the administration agreement with the Government,
SOFIDE and IDA. Submission of a plan to attract and retain plantation
labor, and notification by cofinanciers that all conditions precedent to
their first disbursement other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement, have been fulfilled. One of the companies which were to parti-
cipate in the project has withdrawn and the financing plan is being revised.
In the meantime, substantial progress has been achieved in the agricultural
program of the plantations.
Credit 536        Third Highway Project; US$26 million Loan of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31. 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980;
Cofinanced by UNDP, Belgium and France
The project was designed to strengthen the Office des Routes (OR),
by continuing to develop local expertise in highway administration and main-
tenance and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. Shortage of
local funds and foreign currency for capital and recurrent expenditures has
considerably hindered project implementation. The project was revised in
1978 to reduce the Government's financial contribution to the project by
curtailing road rehabilitation and feasibility studies and reallocating funds
to finance the most essential road improvements, fuel and spare parts.  At the
request of the Government, a ferry maintenance program was later added to the
project. Technical assistance to OR is operating satisfactorily but the
Government continues to have difficulties in appointing suitable counterparts.
OR's overall maintenance operations in 1978 reached about 70 percent of the
objectives, despite inadequate budgetary allocations, which can be considered
satisfactory. The Department responsible for equipment maintenance and repair
is severely restricted by the shortage of spare parts and equipment utilization
rate is very low. Rehabilitation by contractor of the Kabinda-Lomami road has
been completed and the rehabilitation on force account of the Lomami-Kindu
section is progressing well. The remaining funds are expected to be committed
by June 30, 1980.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Credit 255       River Transport; US$7 million Credit of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of: (a) rehab-
ilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM AND RVF; and (e) feasibility
study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the
mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports.  The river agencies have been set
up as autonomous public entities, and almost all contracts for goods and
service under the Credit have been awarded. Physical implementation however
is slowed down by delays in completing: a) a buoy tender for RFV, due to the
Government's failure to meet required local currency costs; and b) rehabilita-
tion of navigation aids on the Kasai River for which a contract was terminated
and which is now to be implemented by RVF. Although ONATRA's management and
financial situation has improved markedly, financial constraints and manage-
ment shortcomings in RVM and RVF still delay implementation. The project,
however, is nearing completion and the undisbursed balance of the credit is
fully committed.
Credit 571       Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project includes: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings for the Regie
des Voies Fluviales; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering study
for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially slow
due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints.
Since March 1977 ONATRA has been increasingly under the direction and
control of a team of expatriates, now numbering 75, including the Delegue
General. All procurement is now completed or underway. ONATRA's financial
performance has improved significantly as a result of tight controls.
Operations have improved in the ports, in river transport, and in the
shipyards; the railway (CFMK) still suffers from parts shortages, however
improvement is anticipated in the near future.  Overall project execution is
satisfactory.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Credit 625        Water Supply Project; US$21.5 million Credit of
June 18, 1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976;
Closing Date: March 30, 1980; Cofinanced by
ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of engineering consultant services for the six cities,
a comprehensive training program, and feasibility studies for additional
water supply projects. REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for
water supply and electricity in Zaire, is the executing agency. Construction
works are progressing satisfactorily but slowly mainly because of shortage of
fuel and building materials and transportation means. Rehabilitation works
were expected to be completed by December 1979.
Credit 272        First Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project consists of (a) the construction or rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of educational institutions and facilities in order
to train teachers, inspectors, and directors for primary education, teachers
for secondary-level general and technical education, and middle-level indus-
trial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management study of the Ministry
of National Education to improve the effectiveness of its administration; and
(c) the carrying out of a survey of manpower needs. Due to considerable and
unforeseen price increases after appraisal, the Government and IDA curtailed
the scope of the project in 1976. Physical implementation of two institutions
is near completion; at the other two institutions, project implementation was
interrupted by the recent events in Shaba but arrangements have been made to
make up for the lost time construction works are about 50 percent completed.
Project completion is now expected by early 1981.
Credit 624        Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of building and equipping five new rural
primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment
of six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions,
and evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying
out of preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects.
The credit was not declared effective until late 1977, because of the Govern-
ment's request that a local autonomous architectural group be established
within the National Education to implement the project. The group's per-
formance to date has not been satisfactory but some progress is expected
following recent changes in staff. The preparation of architectural working
drawings, specifications, and bills of quantities for the first group of
institutions to be financed under the project is well advanced, and the



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
preparation of working drawings for the remaining institutions is underway.
The provision of counterpart funds remains a problem. Substantial progress
has been made in the achievement of educational objectives. Because of
implementation delays and an unexpectedly high rate of inflation, however,
the total cost of the project substantially exceeds available funds and the
Government has requested that the project content be reduced in line with
Government priorities. Emphasis would be given to those components of the
project designed to assist agricultural development, namely, the Agricultural
Technical Institutes and the Higher Institute of Agricultural Studies. We
are waiting for a proposal from the Government.
Credit 902        Railway Project:  US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Terminal date for effectiveness: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi
Fund for Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau;
the OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project finances the 1979-1982 investment program of the
Societe Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track
rehabilitation, equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's
effective capacity. The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210
km of track and ballasting another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting
locomotives and 12 passenger coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and
wagons; (d) telecommunications, workshops, data processing and service
equipment; (e) extension of Ilebo port facilities; (f) social infrastructure;
and (g) middle/senior technical and management staff training and consultant
services. Effectiveness of this credit is being delayed in particular by
slow progress in completing cofinancing arrangements.
Credit 916        Fourth Highway Project:  US$26 million Credit of June 14,
1979; Terminal date of effectiveness: April 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the EEC Special
Action Fund and the Saudi Fund for Development
The Project finances 2.5 years out of the three year road mainten-
ance and rehabilitation program of the Bureau of Roads (BR) (1979-81). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved roads; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable
ferries and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare
parts and fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and
technical assistance and training. The project would help meet minimum road
transport requirements for the agricultural sector and would result in sub-
stantial reductions in vehicle operating costs. Effectiveness of this credit
is being delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
FIFTH SOFIDE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
1.   Because this Credit (the fifth to SOFIDE) is a repeat operation
with an institution which has been closely monitored by the
Bank Group since it was created in 1970, the project did not
require special preparation before the appraisal mission visited
SOFIDE in September 1978. Negotiations were completed on May
18, 1979. The planned date of effectiveness is May 30, 1980.
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
2.   None.
III. Special Conditions
3.   The new Investment strategy would be applied for the selection
of future projects (para. 53).
4.   SOFIDE would provide (i) complete economic analysis for all non-
service sector projects except small-scale enterprise projects and
(ii) full qualitative economic analysis, supported by all
available quantitative data, for service sector and small-
scale enterprise projects (para. 53).
5.   SOFIDE would seek to charge its medium and large scale sub-
borrowers a positive real interest rate (including commissions)
and to review such charges with IDA every six months. SOFIDE
would onlend to small-scale and medium and large scale sub-
borrowers at a minimum of 15 percent interest plus 1.5 percent
commitment fee plus 1 percent appraisal commission. The
foreign exchange risk would be passed on to all medium and
large scale borrowers.  For small-scale enterprises (defined as
Zairian majority-owned projects with total assets not exceeding
Z 200,000), the Government would carry the exchange risk for a
2.5 percent per annum fee. Individual loans made by SOFIDE to
this category of clients from the proceeds of the IDA credit,
would not exceed US$100,000 equivalent. The Government would also
carry the foreign exchange risk on the technical assistance and
equipment component (para. 55(b)).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
6.   The Credit would be onlent by the Government to SOFIDE at
8.25 interest rate (para. 55(a)).
7.   The free limit for projects in all sectors would be raised
from US$150,000 to US$250,000 and the aggregate free limit
from US$2 million to US$7 million (para. 55(c)).
8.   It has been agreed that SOFIDE would raise its debt equity
ratio to 5:1. Government loans made from rolled-over IDA
funds have been converted into quasi-equity to enable SOFIDE
to keep this ratio in the short term. To maintain this ratio
in the future, SOFIDE would submit to the Association by June
1980 a plan to restructure its equity and increase its capital
(para. 55(d)).
9.  The Government has agreed to continue to provide SOFIDE
with local currency resources from the Agricultural Special
Fund and "rolled-over" IDA funds to ensure adequate local
currency funds for its investment needs (para. 51).
10.   The entering into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and SOFIDE would be an additional condition of
effectiveness (para. 60).



BRD 3560R7
CENTRAL    AFRICAN    REPUBLIC . .                                      )              SUDAN
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE                                f                                             5-UELE,-         ,   S            j
-VADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                                                /
i NationalGr/pi -I                 Gemena                                                     -tAIJT-IUELE
   Provinci 'I copit0              r                       0
0   Distnict seat                  /                             -'    MONGALA                     BOa                   -
-- InternationoI bourdry             j                                                                                     0 ANGI  -< --- -   _   .. _ Isro
Provincial boundary                                                    solo               -r,-,,  ----                                 ,i    K..
-Ditict boundary                                                                                  H   A   U   T    ->Z  A  ,'I  R  E              X
5     G'       0Basonkusu                                 ITURI
l Fl/(;(9ATeUe u2,, \ ~~~~~angsongoibl  '\
/ 9Mbondek,       _--- Boende
S  <              2                       , ~~~~~~~~~~ f ~~KIV  tJGANDA
GABON                  
7        7   _ ,-8<                                 N  D   M         B         1 E _0              K,rd        ,         Waiungu p_  
azzavdte -# -e                0                                S                               ANKURLT
BAS-    ATRACTESK          0Kegk it
oM-enza-N                                                IAV
jEonr  BAS ZAI REe
Attarffttw~~~~0 eonn,,,.c,t tdY tef o fAG                                 \2 b   hmuu\')f42 [                         NAIA              \ 
,,'"'\ tYVtY,ne r K/I< - -  \KWANG0
. #gObL rh 0  / 0., 1 SMO * f
NIGER    .f(-e                                    .-                                               HAUT- LOMAMI         4                           t, -
~~~ ~CHAD 
-.4'                        SUDAN IG   f'         A -GO                                              S'   H        A       B    A
Nt Cf G  RE?    A     F .      REBL CSl C.-
I UALABA                     2  HAUT-         ZAMBIA
GABON ~)  REPUBLIC                                                                                K _',i 
.Y  ZAIRE                                                                                               LikANA  .si   Loomoonh
~~~J-Aif      .A.l )                                                                                                                                     19-,Luuba,h 
f0i      200         100                  .                   '   '\(ipuShi K
NIAE4GOLA }t'\  tR7                ~~~~~~MILES?                                                                    --s 
ANG LA                                loo   200 OO300   400    500        _
I  ZAMBIA  J                                              I ___                     Z 24  M2 BIA
KILOMETERS
20.                      24     ZAM$A.



