CREDIT NUMBER 998 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Development Finance Company Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 998 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           1vt     6         , 1980, between
the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (her inafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Societe
Financiere de Developpement with the Borrower's assistance,
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Societe Financiere de Developpement the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Societe Financiere de D&veloppement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "and the Investment Projects" are added
to the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.


﻿-2-
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SOFIDE" means the Soci6t6 Financiere de D6veloppement,
established pursuant to authorization given under Ordonnance-
loi No. 70/001 of the Borrower dated January 9, 1970.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SOFIDE, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SOFIDE pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made by SOFIDE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-
limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies
as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by SOFIDE in an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
SOFIDE proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(h) "Zaires" and "Z" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(j) "Statutes" means the statuts of SOFIDE approved on
January 11, 1970, as amended on March 16, 1972, April 19, 1973
and September 20, 1977 and as further amended from time to time.
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the Declaration de Politique
Generale of SOFIDE as adopted and approved by its Board of
Directors on February 10, 1970, as amended on March 14, 1973 and
December 18, 1978 and as further amended fror.; time to time.
(1) "Prior Credit Agreements" mean the development credit
agreements (Nos. 190 CK, 271 CK, 463 CK and 710 ZR) between the
Borrower and the Association dated May 28, 1970, September 24,
1971, February 20, 1974 and August 2, 1977, respectively, and
"Prior Credits" mean the credits provided for therein.
(m) "Government Loans" means the advance and the loan
totalling 6,000,000 Zaires authorized to be granted by the
Borrower to SOFIDE pursuant to Ordonnance-loi No. 70/002 of
January 9, 1970 as supplemented by Ordonnance No. 78-180 of
April 28, 1978.


﻿-4-
(n) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by SOFIDE or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SOFIDE or by SOFIDE and one or more of its
subsidiaries.
(o) "Convention" means the Conventior d'Etablissement
between the Borrower and SOFIDE dated January 15, 1970.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($18,500,000), for use by SOFIDE.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, SOFIDE, on behalf of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i) the equivalent of the foreign-exchange costs
of equipment, vehicles and supplies required for
the operations of SOFIDE's regional offices and of
the training of professional staff of SOFIDE,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $230,000;
(ii) amounts expended (or, if the Association shall
so agree, such amounts as shall be required to
meet expenditures to be made) for the reasonable
cost in foreign currency of imported goods (except
goods described in paragraph (c) of this Section)
and services required for carrying out the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(iii) the equivalent of eighty-five per cent (85%)
of the invoiced price paid for goods purchased for
Investment Projects as set forth in paragraph (c)
(i) of this Section;


﻿- 5 -
(iv) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of the
invoiced price paid for goods purchased for Invest-
ment Projects as set forth in paragraph (c) (ii) of
this Section; and
(v)  the equivalent of fifty-five per cent (55%) of
the costs in Zaires of construction works included
in Investment Projects and carried out by Zairian
contractors;
provided, however, that:
(A) no more than the equivalent of $3 million out
of the Credit shall be for Sub-loans for
working capital requirements of Investment
Enterprises;
(B) at least the equivalent of $7.5 million out of
the Credit shall be for Investment Projects in
the agricultural sector;
(C) no more than the equivalent of $100,000 shall
be withdrawn from the Credit Account on
account of any Sub-loan for a small-scale
Investment Enterprise; and
(D) no amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in respect of an Investment Project
unless:
(1) the Sub-loan or investment for such
Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association; or
(2) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit
Sub-loan for which the Association shall
have authorized withdrawals from the
Credit Account. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "small-scale Investment Enter-
prises" shall mean any Zairian majority-
owned enterprise with total assets not
exceeding 200,000 Zaires.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Development


﻿-6-
Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts
previously financed for the same Investment Project under the
Development Credit Agreement or under the Prior Credit Agreements,
and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $250,000 and which, when added to all other free-limit Sub-
loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
not exceed in the aggreate the equivalent of $7,000,000, including
$3,000,000 for Sub-loans for working capital, the foregoing
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined
by the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account
of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i)
goods previously imported into its territory through normal
trade channels and from countries which are members of the Bank
(or from Switzerland); (ii) goods produced in the territory
of the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw
materials so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises
to carry out Investment Projects; and (iii) construction works
as described in subparagraph (v) of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expenditures made
by an Investment Enterprises prior to the date of this Agreement;
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, or of an Investment, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the application and evaluation required under Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (iii) expenditures made in
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Association shall have received the request
and evaluation required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.03. SOFIDE is designaged as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall be establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and SOFIDE of
such later date.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1, and September 1 commencing September 1, 1990, and ending
March 1, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions,
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of thr Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted
is: (i) the financing by SOFIDE of economic development in the
territory of the Borrower through loans for productive purposes to
enterprises in such territory, and through other productive
investments in such enterprises, all for specific development
projects and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of
Policy of SOFIDE; and (ii) the procurement of equipment, vehicles
and supplies for the regional offices of SOFIDE and thu training
of its professional staff.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
or the equivalent thereof to SOFIDE under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SOFIDE
containing terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, including a term not exceeding 15 years, interest
at 8.25% per annum, commitment fee of 3/4% per annum and the
agreement of the Borrower to bear the exchange risk on the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn: (i) for the part of the
Project described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) above; and (ii) for an
appropriate fee, for Sub-Loans to small-scale Investment Enter-
prises as defined in Section 2.02 (a) above.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the performance
by SOFIDE of any of its other obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or
cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on
its part in order to enable SOFIDE to carry out the Project and to
perform such other obligations.
Section 3.03. The terms and conditions of the Convention
and of the Government Loans shall be modified only pursuant to
the agreement of the Borrower, the Association and SOFIDE.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of SOFIDE under the Project Agreement or under any other
project agreement between the Association and SOFIDE;
(b) the Statutes of SOFIDE shall have been amended so as to
affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
condition of SOFIDE;
(c) SOFIDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any
of the property of SOFIDE shall or may be distributed among its
creditors;


﻿- 9 -
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to SOFIDE
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, Or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOFIDE or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by SOFIDE, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of SOFIDE's
business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its manage-
ment and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additonal events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f)
of Section 4.01 cf this Agreement shall occur and shall zontinue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and SOFIDE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
entered into by the Borrower and SOFIDE, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SOFIDE,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of SOFIDE in
accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of, the Borrower and of SOFIDE in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date AL41,L h/ /MfO is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section    2.04 of' the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date sixteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03 of
this Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Bolte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                  Telex:
DENFIN                          298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By/7                         A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Al &1                1J A,1*41--
Regi6nal Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 q-.
FOR SECRETARY


