OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 998 ZR
D,0CtMENTS
Project Agreeient
(Fifth Development Finance Company Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated                             ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 998 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  6, 1980, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP       ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called
the Association) and the SCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
(hereinafter called SOFIDE), established pursuant to authorization
given under Ordonnance-loi No. 70/001 dated January 9, 1970 of
the Republic of Zaire (hereinafter called the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending to SOFIDE,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million
five hundred thousand dollars ($18,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that SOFIDE agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SOFIDE, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of SOFIDE
Section 2.01. (a) SOFIDE shall carry out the Project,
described in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement,
and conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes and
Statement of Policy.


﻿-2-
(b) In relending to Investment Enterprises the proceeds of
the Credit made available to SOFIDE by the Borrower under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, SOFIDE shall seek to achieve real
positive financial terms. The Association and SOFIDE shall ex-
change views every six months on such relending terms in the light
of prevailing and forecasted economic conditions affecting the
appropriateness thereof.
(c) SOFIDE shall consult with the Association on any
proposal for an appointment to the position of its Director
General and for the purpose shall furnish to the Association
prior to such appointment details of the qualifications and
experience of the proposed candidate and of the proposed terms
and conditions of employment.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, SOFIDE shall
submit Investment Projects to the Association for approval
or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit
Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,
SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expendi-
tures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by
SOFIDE and an appraisal of the Investment Project) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of
repayment to the Borrower of the amount to be used for the
Investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request; and (ii) except in the case of Sub-loans for
working capital, such appraisals will include detailed economic
analyses including calculations of the internal financial rates of
return and, in all cases of non-service sector Investment Projects
other than those of small-scale Investment Enterprises, an evalua-
tion of the economic rates of return established in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Association and in the case of
service sector Investment Projects and small-scale Investment
Enterprises, detailed qualitative economic analyses.
(c) Each request by SOFIDE for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit


﻿- 3 -
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by
the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in
respect of such Investment Project; and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal or reasonably increasing semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal or reasonably increasing semi-annual, or more fre-
quent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall otherwise
agree, SOFIDE shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1981.
Section 2.03. (a) SOFIDE undertakes that unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby SOFIDE shall obtain, by written agreement or
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and of SOFIDE, including, in the case
of any such Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appro-
priate in the case of any such Investment: (i) the right to
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stan-
dards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require
that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan or Investment be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and
of SOFIDE to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
require that the Investment Enterprise take out and maintain such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be


﻿consistent with sound business practice and that, without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the Invest-
ment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right to
obtain all such information as the Association or SOFIDE shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprises and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Projects; and (vi) the right of SOFIDE to suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enter-
prise to perform its obligations under its agreement with SOFIDE.
(b) SOFIDE shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as:       (i) to protect the
interests of the Association and of SOFIDE; (ii) to comply with
its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (iii) to achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SOFIDE shall furnish to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-
loans and Investments, the Project, the Investment Enterprises,
the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and the Investments
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the
foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or by such later date as the Association
shall agree, SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operations of the Investment
Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by SOFIDE and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. SOFIDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SOFIDE shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall
otherwise agree, SOFIDE: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. SOFIDE shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of SOFIDE under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. SOFIDE shall not amend its Statement of Policy
except in agreement with the Association, and shall exchange views
with the Association on any proposal to modify its Statutes.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. SOFIDE shall maintain records adequate to
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each
Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of SOFIDE and
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 3.02. SOFIDE shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of SOFIDE
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall
otherwise agree, SOFIDE shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary
to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the
consolidated debt of SOFIDE and all its Subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed five times the consolidated capital
and surplus of SOFIDE and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of
this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by SOFIDE
or any Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date en
which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaran-
teed by SOFIDE or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Zaires debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Kinshasa for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of SOFIDE and all its
Subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of SOFIDE and all its
Subsidiaries excluding: (i) debt owed by SOFIDE to any Subsidiary
or by any Subsidiary to SOFIDE or to any other Subsidiary; and
(ii) debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this
Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of SOFIDE
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of SOFIDE
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent aquity interests of SOFIDE in any Subsidiary,
or of any such Subsidiary in SOFIDZ. or in any other Subsidiary;
(ii) the amount of the Government Loans; and (iii) such amount of
any other loan which the Association may determine to be included
in the consolidated capital and surplus of SOFIDE, including the


﻿-7-
"consolidated funds"., to the extent that such funds rank, in case
of liquidation of SOFIDE, pari passu with its share capital and
are not repayable to the Borrower prior to 1996.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and SOFIDE shall
otherwise agree, SOFIDE shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. SOFIDE shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the various currencies (including Zaires) used in its
borrowing and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and SOFIDE shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and SOFIDE shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance by SOFIDE of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of SOFIDE and other matters relating to
the purpose of the Credit.
(b) SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of SOFIDE
and its Subsidiaries, if any.
Section 4.02. SOFIDE shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by SOFIDE of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. SOFIDE shall enable the Association's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SOFIDE thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SOFIDE of this event, and upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given, or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall


﻿- 9 -
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SOFIDE:
Soci6t6 Financiere de Drveloppement
Botte Postale 1148
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                     Telex:
SOFIDE                             390
Kinshasa
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by SOFIDE may be taken or executed by
its President jointly with any Director or its Director General
and Deputy Director General, or by such other person or persons as
SOFIDE shall designate in writing, and SOFIDE shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  V               N.}At
/Regifnal Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Byi                              R   ev
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 c.
FOR SECRETARY


