Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H496-AF 
 
AMENDMENT 
 CREDIT NUMBER 3844-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade 
Facilitation Project and Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 28, 2009  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 28, 2009, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).   
This Agreement: (i) sets out the terms and conditions related to the Additional 
Financing for the Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project; and 
(ii) amends specific provisions of  the Development Credit Agreement (herein referred to 
as the Original Financing Agreement, as such term is defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to four 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000) (the 
“Grant” or the “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Grant Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through ACD assisted by the Project 
Implementation Consultants, in coordination with MOC, in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Pashtunistan 
Watt 
 Kabul 
 
 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 93-20-210-3258 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Mohammed Omar Zakhilwal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/Mariam J. Sherman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to: (i) provide the Recipient with emergency 
assistance in the establishment of a more efficient customs and transit regime; (ii) assist 
the Recipient’s efforts to increase, in the short term, through the reduction of customs 
irregularities and inefficiencies, the collecting capacity of the ACD and the Recipient’s 
other collection agencies; (iii) assist the Recipient’s efforts to decrease, in the medium to 
long term, trade transaction costs through: (A) improvements in key customs and related 
transit infrastructure and communications; and (B) improvements in customs and transit 
administration; and (iv) assist the Recipient in: (A) laying the basis for a functioning 
customs service; and (B) taking appropriate measures to facilitate its international trade. 
The Project consists of the Original Project. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
The implementation arrangements contained in Schedule 4 to the Original 
Financing Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
B. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
and Social Safeguards Framework and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A.
 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
Page  7
-
6
-
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  8
-
7
-
Procurement Method 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)   
Shopping 
(c)   
Direct Contracting 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be subject to the following additional  
procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders will provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security will apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(xi) 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than four (4) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding will not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consulta
nts’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of 
Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Procurement Method 
 
(a)   
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   
Single-Source Selection 
(c)   
Least-Cost Selection 
(d)   
Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)   
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f)   
Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) all contracts for goods or works procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding;  
(c) each contract for goods or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting 
regardless of value; (d) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on the basis of Single-Source Selection; and (f) each contract for 
consultants’ services by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed  
(inclusive of taxes) 
(1) Goods, works 
Consult
ants’ Services, 
Services financed 
through Grants, 
Training, Audit Costs 
and Incremental 
Operating Costs*  
4,600,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
4,600,000 
 
*For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, support and 
management including the rental of office space,  the operation, maintenance, rental and 
insurance of vehicles,  fuel costs,  communications supplies and charges, advertisement 
expenses,  books and periodicals,  office administration and maintenance costs, bank 
transaction charges, utility charges, domestic travel and per diem, Project allowances for 
officials and staff of the Recipient’s civil service, but excluding salaries of officials and 
staff of the Recipient’s civil service. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,350,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2008, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010.  
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“ACD” means the Afghanistan Customs Department in MOF. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” means the Recipient’s 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework furnished to the Association in 
2002 which: (i) has been developed for emergency rehabilitation projects; and 
(ii) provides for certain environmental and social impact mitigation measures to 
be undertaken by the Recipient as part of the implementation of the Project, 
including guidelines and mitigation measures for the selection, design, 
contracting, construction, monitoring and evaluation of Sub-Projects, as said 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Recipient and the Association. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
6. 
“MOC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Commerce or any successor entity 
thereto. 
7. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor entity 
thereto. 
8. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for 
the Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project between 
the Recipient (referred to therein as the “Borrower”) and the Association, dated 
January 20, 2004, (Credit No. 3844). 
9. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement as amended to date. 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October, 2006. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 22, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Project Implementation Consultants” means UNOPS, UNCTAD and UNIDO or 
any implementation consultant employed for purposes of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
13. 
“UNCTAD” means the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 
14. 
“UNIDO” means the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. 
15. 
“UNOPS” means the United Nations Office for Project Services. 
Section II.   
Amendment to the Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
1. 
The Closing Date as set out in Section 2.03 of the Original Financing Agreement 
is hereby extended to December 31, 2010. 
 
2. 
The definition or “Incremental Operating Costs” set out in Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement is amended to read as set out in 
Section IV.A(2) of Schedule 2 to this Financing Agreement. 
 
All other terms of the Original Financing Agreement not hereby amended remain 
the same.
 
