Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB245 
Project Name 
Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General transportation sector (30%);Other domestic and 
international trade (30%);General public administration sector 
(30%);General information and communications sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P083906 
Borrower(s) 
TRANS. ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Department of Customs, Ministry of Finance 
 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 10, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 30, 2003  
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 13, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Afghanistan, ravaged by chronic conflict and political instability for the last two decades, under 
the Transitional Interim State of Afghanistan (TISA) is on the sure but slow and challenging path 
of reconstruction. Fiscal sustainability is vital for TISA’s effectiveness. TISA is improving 
revenue collection by reforming its tax system and customs administration, initially, through 
“high yielding” measures that can be easily administered. Customs revenues contributed nearly 
US$50 million to TISA tax revenues in FY-02 (~60 percent of the total)—this can be improved 
further. Customs’ revenue collection has been severely constrained by the under-valuation of 
goods, depressed formal trade, an absence of a bonded mechanism for movement of trade cargo 
and general cargo insurance, an excessive number of other fees and levies, cumbersome 
procedures, poor communications and infrastructure, lack of an effective central tax authority, 
and a poorly paid and trained customs administration. This has also led to widespread smuggling 
and corruption including a substantial trade in contraband and narcotics. To rectify the situation, 
a new customs legislation/decree is on the anvil. Department of Custom (DoC) has sought 
“Priority Reform and Restructuring Status (PRR) and prepared a restructuring plan (including a 
detailed assessment of its infrastructure and human resource needs) for customs trade and 
transport reform with technical assistance from donors (including DFID, USAID, EU, GTZ, and 
ADB). DoC has so far revised some documentary systems and procedures, started a civil service 
reform process and training for customs brokers, and improved some infrastructure 
improvements. It is considering implementation of a mechanism for bonded movement of cargo 
(various options such as police protected convoys on fixed corridors using advance payments 
and notification systems are being considered). As part of the overall financial sector reforms it 
Page  2
 
 
is looking into availability of credible insurance. A feasibility study is also planned to look at 
possible choices for an automated customs declaration and information management system. 
TISA has specifically requested Bank’s assistance in this area. The  proposed project will focus 
on the development of the most essential physical infrastructure for Customs and technical 
assistance, particularly for policy development, to ensure effective implementation of TISA’s 
custom reform program. The proposed project will assist in delivering the Bank’s current 
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Afghanistan by helping enhance TISA’s effectiveness, 
improve revenue mobilization, and enable private sector development. The Bank has developed 
considerable expertise in assisting countries to streamline customs and transit regimes, and 
reducing trade costs—at present it is undertaking 80 trade facilitation projects in developing 
countries worth US$4.6billion. It is also a key partner in the UN trade facilitation initiative on 
land-locked countries. Similar on-going Bank programs in some of Afghanistan’s neighboring 
countries can help the development of beneficial regional and bilateral integration initiatives for 
customs and transit. The Bank can help provide the necessary expertise and long-term continuity 
required for DoC’s reform agenda; and, can also provide the necessary funding for the 
substantial infrastructure and training necessary for successful implementation. Bank experience 
suggests that projects of this nature require coordinated and mutually reinforcing action in many 
policy areas. Therefore the proposed project’s design will aim to integrate the efforts of relevant 
ministries and donors involved in the reform program. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The project development objective is to: 
provide TISA emergency assistance to start establishing 
a more efficient customs and transit regime
. This will be a first step in support of TISA’s short 
term goal to increase the collecting capacity of customs and to reduce corruption and smuggling, 
and the medium to long term goal of decreasing transaction costs to trade. The project will 
achieve this through improvements in: (a) key customs and related transit infrastructure and 
communications; and, (b) the capacity for customs and transit administration. During project 
preparation, specific performance indicators will be developed with TISA based on an agreed 
data collection framework (also considering the paucity of available base line data). These 
indicators will measure achievement of the project and the overall goals in the following areas: 
customs revenue collection; quality of customs services; transparency and corruption; annual 
number of customs declarations; transit and customs related transaction costs to trade; volume of 
commercial trade activity, etc. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed project will complement the assistance being provided by other donors, and will 
include three components which will be phased as the various transit corridors are developed and 
secured:  (i) improving and developing physical infrastructure (including equipment) at seven 
border crossing stations (at Torkham, Spinboldak, Zaranj, Islam Killah, Torghundi, Hairatan & 
Sher Khan Bander)
,
 four inland clearance depots (at Jalalabad, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar & 
Konduz), Kabul customs Inland Customs Depot, five transit checkpoints, customs facilities at 
Kabul Airport, and training facilities in Kabul [$23 million], (ii) improvements to the customs 
communication systems [$2 million], and (iii) technical assistance[$5 million]. Key areas to be 
covered by the Technical Assistance are: management and implementation assistance to support 
the Customs Modernization and Reform Steering; automated customs data systems/MIS; trade 
and transport documents and procedures; legislation for freight forwarding; transit-related 
Page  3
 
 
financial and insurance capacity; feasibility studies for the development of options like the 
bonded transit or convoy systems; and, capacity building and training, etc. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
The project is not expected to have significant negative environmental or social impacts.  The 
infrastructure improvement and development activities will comprise buildings such as customs 
facilities and warehouses, as well as parking areas for trucks.  Environmental impacts associated 
with civil works will be managed through standard operating procedures described in an 
implementation manual. Land acquisition is not foreseen, since civil works will be on existing 
government land.  Whether acquisition of additional land is required and/or whether existing 
government land is encroached upon, will be assessed during project preparation. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Amer Zafar Durrani 
Title: Sr. Transport Specialist/Highway Engineer 
Tel: 5722+226 
Fax:  
Email: adurrani@worldbank.org 
Location: Islamabad, Pakistan (IBRD)
 
