Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3844-AF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 20, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER  3844-AF 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 2004, between TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC 
STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“ACD” means the Borrower’s Afghanistan Customs Department in MOF 
(as this term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(b) 
“ACOC” means the Afghan Chamber of Commerce; 
 
(c) 
“ASYCUDA” means the Automated System for Customs Declaration; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, out of the proceeds 
of the Credit for the financing of a Sub-Project (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
Page  4
-
2
-
(f) 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement for a Grant referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Commerce; 
 
(h) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
 
(i) 
“Project Implementation Consultants” means UNOPS, UNCTAD and 
UNIDO (as these terms are hereinafter defined) or any implementation consultant 
employed for purposes of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement; 
 
(j) 
 “Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation 
Manual referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Project Year” means the twelve month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter and each successive twelve month 
period following thereafter; 
 
(l) 
“Sub-Project” means an infrastructure construction and/or rehabilitation 
activity or service financed, or proposed to be financed, through Grants made under Parts 
A
and B of the Project which meets the criteria set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“UNCTAD” means the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development;  
 
(o) 
“UNIDO” means the United Nations Industrial Development 
Organization;  
 
(p) 
“UNOPS” means the United Nations Office for Project Services; and 
 
(q) 
“Work Plans” means the work plans to be prepared, updated, and 
followed during project implementation as defined in Part D of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty one million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR21,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2014 and ending December 15, 2043. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2023 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal  
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  7
-
5
-
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through ACD assisted by the Project Implementation Consultants, in 
coordination with MOC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Work Plan and the Project Implementation Manual and appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental and custom and trade facilitation practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause its officials, agents, and 
representatives to provide, promptly as necessary, any necessary entry and exit visas, 
work permits, exchange and travel documents required for personnel engaged by the 
Project Implementation Consultants to assist in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the  
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Management Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five  days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Management Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kabul, Islamic State of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Salam Rahimy 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ William Byrd 
Authorized Representative 
South Asia Region 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works and services 
9,678,000 
100%  
 
 
financed through
 Grants
 
(2) Goods 
3,539,000 
100%  
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services, 
6,715,000 
100%  
 
training and audit costs 
 
(4) Incremental Operating 
973,000 
100% 
 
Costs 
 
(5) Unallocated 
695,000 
 
 
______________      
 
TOTAL
 21,600,000 
 
 
============ 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and 
management, including the operation and maintenance of vehicles, office supplies, 
communication charges, insurance costs, temporary office structures, office 
administration costs, banking charges, utility charges, domestic travel and per diem 
allowances, but excluding salaries of the officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,400,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 30, 2003; and 
Page  13
-
11
-
(b) 
a Grant under Category (1) unless the Grant has been made in 
accordance with eligibility criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) 
consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms; (iii) consultants’ services 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for individual consultants; 
(iv) Grants costing less than $300,000 equivalent per contract; (v) training; (vi) audit 
costs; and (vii) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide the Borrower with emergency 
assistance in the establishment of a more efficient customs and transit regime; (ii) assist 
the Borrower’s efforts to increase, in the short term, through the reduction of customs 
irregularities and inefficiencies the collecting capacity of the ACD and the Borrower’s 
other collection agencies; (iii) assist the Borrower’s efforts to decrease, in the medium to 
long term, trade transaction costs through (A) improvements in key customs and related 
transit infrastructure and communications, and (B) improvements in customs and transit 
administration; and (iv) assist the Borrower in (A) laying the basis for a functioning 
customs service, and (B) taking appropriate measures to facilitate its international trade. 
 
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
1. 
The carrying out of Sub-Projects for the construction and/or rehabilitation of 
physical infrastructure of customs and transit consisting primarily of the rehabilitation 
and/or reconstruction of office buildings, dormitories, warehouses, pavements/roads, 
inspection sheds, water supply and drainage, generator sheds, guard towers, fences and 
boundary walls, weigh-bridges installation points, lighting for boundary walls and 
parking. 
 
2. 
The acquisition and installation of information technology, communications, and 
power generation equipment for the border and inland customs/transit facilities (computer 
hardware and software, VSAT/Radio communications networks, power generators, 
uninterrupted power supplies), miscellaneous laboratory testing equipment for the Bureau 
of Standards and Meterology, office supplies, office equipment, office furniture, and 
vehicles. 
 
3. 
The carrying out of Sub-Projects for the rehabilitation of MOC’s physical 
infrastructure in Kabul City related to key departments working on trade facilitation and 
for the development of the Bureau of Standards and Meterology consisting primarily of 
the rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of office buildings, storage, pavements, water 
supply and drainage, generator sheds, boundary walls, lighting for boundary walls and 
parking. 
 
4. 
The provision of technical assistance to ACD for: (i) the design, supervision and 
management of Sub-Projects; (ii) the development of customs and transit related 
legislation, code and rules; (iii) budget preparation, monitoring, and control; 
(iv) development and phased implementation of ASYCUDA; (v) overall technical 
support for the project; (vi) implementation support for the Information Communications 
and Technology development; (vii) restructuring and capacity building of the ACD; 
Page  15
-
13
-
(viii) asset management; and (ix) border and inland control (including the technical 
advisory services of regional customs specialist). 
 
5. 
The provision of technical assistance to MOC for: (i) the design, supervision and 
management of Sub-Projects; (ii) trade, transit, and transport facilitation; (iii) private 
sector cooperation initiatives; (iv) partial (related to trade facilitation) restructuring and 
capacity building of MOC; and (v) strengthening the Bureau of Standards and  
Meterology (weights and measures). 
 
6. 
The provision of overall Project implementation support to ACD and MOC. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 30, 2007. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
(a) 
Works required for Sub-Projects estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent 
or more shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works required for Sub-Projects estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the provisions of the Annex to this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
and the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
(a) 
Works required for Sub-Projects estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or 
less in response to an emergency situation may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, in response to an emergency 
situation may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to the following: 
 
(i) 
the first two contracts for works under Sub-Projects estimated to 
cost less than $300,000 equivalent; 
 
(ii) 
all contracts for works under Sub-Projects estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more; 
 
(iii) 
the first two contracts for goods through National Competitive  
Bidding; and 
 
(iv) 
all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$200,000 or more.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-Cost 
Selection
Services for design and supervision of civil works estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for design and supervision of civil works estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services of the Project Implementation Consultants, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  19
-
17
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Sele
ction of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
 
The provisions of paragraph 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for services procured on a single source 
selection basis, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  20
-
18
-
ANNEX 
 
to 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight days prior to the deadline for 
the submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid. 
 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association; 
 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
 
(xvi) Re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; and 
 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A:
Overall Project Management
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, with the assistance of UNOPS or other 
Implementation Consultant(s), prepare a Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association setting out Project objectives, overall Project 
management procedures, Sub-Project selection criteria, Sub-Projects design criteria, Sub-
Project project cycle and procurement procedures, disbursement and flow of funds, 
financial management procedures including auditing, interagency coordination, local 
capacity building, Sub-Projects supervision, environmental and social safeguards 
management (including mine risk management), and monitoring and evaluation 
provisions.   
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through ACD assisted by the 
Project Implementation Consultants, in coordination with MOC, in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation 
Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially 
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
Part B
:
ACD and MOC 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain ACD and MOC each in a form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall assign responsibility for the overall management of 
the Project to ACD. ACD shall in the discharge of its Project functions be assisted by 
other Project Implementation Consultants employed on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Project functions of UNCTAD and UNIDO shall be performed 
under respective inter-agency arrangements, satisfactory to both the Borrower and the  
Association, entered into with the Implementation Consultant. 
 
Part C:
Sub-Projects
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-Projects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, approved, carried out and 
monitored in accordance with the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to 
in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Page  23
-
21
-
(b) 
To be eligible for Grants applicants for the Grants must meet the relevant 
criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual with respect to the making of 
Grants. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association as a 
condition for the making of Grants. The terms and conditions of each Grant Agreement 
shall 
inter alia
:
(a) 
require that the recipient of the Grant to: (i) carry out the Sub-Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
relating to the Sub-Project; 
 
(b) 
require that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring 
efficiency and economy and the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-Project; and 
 
(c) 
reserve for the Borrower the right to: 
 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites and 
construction included in the Sub-Project and any relevant records 
and documents; 
 
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the operation and financial 
condition of the Grant recipient carrying out the Sub-Project; and 
 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Grant recipient to use the 
proceeds of the Grant upon the failure by such recipient to 
perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement. 
 
Part D:
Work Plans
6. 
The Borrower shall: (i) jointly with the Association and in consultation with the 
Implementation Consultants, no later than January 30, 2004, prepare and furnish the 
Association with a detailed work plan for the first Project Year and the following half of the 
second Project Year based on a three and half years’ Project implementation horizon; and 
(ii) no later than three months before the end of the last preceding Project Year prepare and 
furnish to the Association subsequent annual Project work plans for the remaining two 
Project Years. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
Part E:
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (a) on a biannual basis, commencing not later than forty-five 
days after the end of the first six-month period after the Effective Date, a report on the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and (b) on or about October 31, 2005, a report, to constitute the basis 
upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section and 
consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (ii) (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (ii) (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association
’s views on the matter.
 
Page  25
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower  
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower  
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Page  26
-
24
-
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  27
-
25
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
