                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                      Report No: ICR00001536


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                       ON A

                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT (IDA-3844)

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF

                              SDR 21.6 MILLION
                      (US$ 31.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

              AND AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT (H-496)

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF

                               SDR 4.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 6.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

             TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN

                                      FOR AN

               EMERGENCY CUSTOMS MODERNIZATION AND
                    TRADE FACILITATION PROJECT


                                 June 8, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 2010)

                   Currency Unit = Afghani
                      1.00 = US$ 0.0218
                   US$ 1.00 = AFN 45.86

                  AFGHAN FISCAL YEAR
                    March 21-March 20

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACD       Afghanistan Customs Department
AFFCO     Afghan Freight Forwarding Companies Organization
AFPRO     Afghan Trade & Transport Facilitation Committee
ANSA      Afghan National Standards Authority
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Data
FM        Financial management
FYP       Five-year plan
GAAP      Governance and accountability action plan
ICD       Inland clearance depot
ICN       Informal Customs Network
ICT       Information and communications technology
IRU       International Road Transport Union
ISR       Implementation status & results report
MoCe      Ministry of Commerce
MoF       Ministry of Finance
M&E       Monitoring and evaluation
PAD       Project appraisal document
PDO       Project development objective
SY        Afghan solar year (starts March 22)
TIR       Transports Internationaux Routiers (customs transit
          guarantee system for international road freight)
TTFSE     Trade & Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UNCTAD    United Nations Conference on Trade & Development
UNIDO     United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNOPS     United Nations Office for Project Services
VCA       Vulnerabilities to Corruption Assessment

          Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
        Country Director: Nicholas Krafft
         Sector Manager: Michel Audige
    Project Team Leader: Amer Zafar Durrani
       ICR Team Leader: Amer Zafar Durrani
                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
             Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project



                                                         CONTENTS



A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ v
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... vi
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................... vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 27
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 37
   MAP IBRD 38625
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Emergency Customs
                                                                           Modernization and
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                           Trade Facilitation
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P083906                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38440,IDA-H4960
ICR Date:               06/09/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           TRANS. ISLAMIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:                 STATE OF
                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 21.60M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 26.18M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 26.19M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Customs, Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/03/2003      Effectiveness:             03/22/2004       03/22/2004
Appraisal:            09/29/2003      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/23/2003      Mid-term Review:           12/31/2005       11/20/2005
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2007       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings            Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                17                  17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 33                  33
Tax policy and administration                                          17                  17
Trade facilitation and market access                                   33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                   Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Michel Audige                        Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:       Amer Zafar Durrani                   Amer Zafar Durrani
ICR Team Leader:           Amer Zafar Durrani
ICR Primary Author:        Graham Smith


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to provide the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
emergency assistance to start establishing a more efficient customs and transit regime.
The project was to achieve this through financing improvements in (a) key customs and
related transit infrastructure and communications; and (b) the capacity for customs and
transit administration. This would lay the basis for a functioning customs service and
facilitation of Afghanistan's international trade. The project would also finance some key


                                                ii
emergency assistance for implementing the accompanying overall tax administration
business plan.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval        Target      Completion or
                                              documents)        Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Customs Revenue
Value
quantitative or   $50-60 million            $280 million                  $766 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003                06/30/2010                    06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Declarations per staff
Value
quantitative or   91                        200                           235
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003                06/30/2010                    06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Revenue per declaration
Value
quantitative or   $500-600                  $700                          $1699
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003                06/30/2010                    06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     ASYCUDA: Transit
Value
quantitative or   NA                        1 complete axis               5 complete axis
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003                06/30/2010                    06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     ASHYCUDA: Electronic declarations
Value
                                            1 DPS
quantitative or   NA                                                      5 DPS implemented
                                            implemented
Qualitative)


                                                  iii
Date achieved     09/30/2003               06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Trade volume
Value
quantitative or   $2 billion/year          $5 billion/year                   $6.26 billion/year
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003               06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Truck release time: Kabul ICD
Value
quantitative or   18 hours                 90 minutes                        91% in <90 minutes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003               06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Logistics Performance Index
Value
quantitative or   Ranking = 150            Rank = 130                        Rank = 143
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003               06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Logistics Perform. Index (Customs)
Value
quantitative or   Ranking = 150            Rank =130                         Rank = 104
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2003               06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
                  No. of Customs facilities & Transit Infrastructure repaired/constructed &
Indicator 1 :
                  improved.
Value
                                                                             62 (works
(quantitative                              62
                                                                             completed)
or Qualitative)


                                                iv
Date achieved                               06/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     No. of facilities connected through telecommunications.
Value
(quantitative                               14                              15
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     ASYCUDA functional, fully used by customs staff.
Value
(quantitative                               2 main axes                     5 main axes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Quality & safety of traded goods: inspection mechanism.
Value
(quantitative                               In place.                       Achieved.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Mechanism for standards, metrology & quality control.
Value                                                                       ANSA set up,
                                            ANSA set up, law
(quantitative                                                               staffed; law
                                            passed.
or Qualitative)                                                             pending.
Date achieved                               06/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP             Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     04/27/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     12/29/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  7.70
  3     06/01/2005       Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  7.50
  4     03/13/2006       Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                16.32
  5     06/24/2006       Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                16.32



                                                   v
  6    12/22/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   22.17
  7    06/21/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   28.50
  8    12/26/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   28.50
  9    06/23/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   32.15
 10    12/23/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   32.15
 11    05/23/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   32.15
 12    11/24/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   39.30
 13    05/28/2010         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   39.30
 14    12/15/2010         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   39.48


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
                                             1



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector background: This was an emergency operation, a high-priority
program of action in support of post-conflict reconstruction after more than two decades
of foreign military occupation and civil war. In late 2001 NATO forces helped to drive
the Taliban out of government. In 2002 a new government was elected and a new
constitution was adopted. Faced with a severe lack of control at its borders and
widespread smuggling, in June 2003 the Afghanistan Customs Department (ACD) –part
of the Ministry of Finance-- prepared a five-year plan. Its focus was on increasing
revenue collection; shortening clearance times; bringing the customs tariff, exchange
rates and valuation into line with internationally accepted practices; enabling remittance
to the central treasury of all customs revenues collected in the regions; improving the key
customs infrastructure to a standard that would allow for proper enforcement of Customs’
control; reorganizing and rebuilding capacity of the Kabul and regional ACD
headquarters to fully control customs activities; building a stable and comprehensive
legal framework for Customs; and establishing effective enforcement.

Rationale: The Bank gave priority to supporting this initiative because customs revenues
contributed 70 percent of all revenues of the central government. Enhanced revenue
collection was one of the new government’s highest priorities. It was expected that
reform of the customs administration would yield high returns and yet could be managed
reasonably easily.

The Afghan government approached the Bank because it had an advantage over most
other international and bilateral donors in having an established track record in operations
supporting customs reform and trade facilitation, with a global perspective --not limited
to the customs practices of a single country or regional grouping of countries. It had the
necessary expertise in house. And its experience positioned it to take the lead in
coordinating inputs from several other donors in the reform and modernization of
Customs and border management.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective was to provide the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
emergency assistance to start establishing a more efficient customs and transit regime.
The project would achieve this through financing improvements in (a) key customs and
related transit infrastructure and communications; and (b) the capacity for customs and
transit administration. This would lay the basis for a functioning customs service and
facilitation of Afghanistan's international trade. The project would also finance some key
emergency assistance for implementing the accompanying overall tax administration
business plan.

In essence, the project aimed to help the Afghan government carry out the first three and
a half years of its five-year plan for customs reform.
                                            2



Achievement of the objective would be measured by collection of increased customs
revenues, improved quality of customs services, greater transparency and less corruption
in customs transactions, more customs declarations processed each year, reduced
transaction costs for traders related to transit and customs processes, and hence expansion
of commercial trade activity.

In this context the word ‘transit’ has two meanings: international transit, such as the
transport by sealed truck or container of Chinese goods imported by an Afghan trader
through Pakistan from the port of Karachi to Torkham, the point of entry into
Afghanistan; and internal (or domestic) transit, such as the transport of these imports
from Torkham to Kabul, their final destination where they clear customs. While the PDO
appears to have intended both meanings, the project’s greatest impact has been on
internal transit: displacing the processing of customs clearance from the border crossing
to the inland destination, mostly Kabul –the value of which will be noted below.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PAD did not specify the expected beneficiaries as such. However, it made clear that
the main activities would benefit traders and the trucking companies, mostly informal and
small in scale, whom traders hired to bring goods into Afghanistan. They would enjoy
substantially shorter waiting times and more transparent and predictable processing at
border crossings and inland customs control points. Given the competitive nature of most
import activities, it was reasonable to expect that their savings would be passed through
to domestic consumers in general.

At the same time the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and indirectly the whole of the Afghan
government would benefit from the expected increase in customs revenue. Since
customs duties made up well over half of total fiscal revenues, the increase in duties
collected would have secondary impacts on all entities that relied on the national budget.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The PDO’s focus on more efficient customs and transit regimes implied assistance to
Customs (ACD) and the Ministry of Commerce (MoCe). The project would fund a time-
slice of ACD’s investment program in infrastructure at border posts and inland clearance
depots (ICDs), to make them more serviceable and especially to allow ACD to
computerize its operations. Expenditures would fall mainly into two categories: (i)
infrastructure and communications investments, and (ii) capacity building.

Specifically, the project would assist ACD and MoF in constructing and rehabilitating
physical infrastructure for customs and transit; and in procuring and installing computer
systems and information technology (including design, supervision and project
management). It would also provide technical assistance for ACD’s restructuring,
customs policy and strategy development, customs legislation, ACD budget management,
                                              3

implementation of border and inland controls (including assistance from customs
specialists from neighboring countries), asset management, overall technical and content
quality control and management, and other ad hoc advice.

Lastly, the project included assistance to the MoCe related to its task of facilitating trade,
and specifically the development of a bureau of standards and metrology through the
reconstruction of office buildings and equipping them to perform the Bureau’s task.

Five-sixths of the project cost as estimated at appraisal came under ACD and one-sixth
under MoCe. All expenditures were to be funded fully by the IDA credit with no
government counterpart contribution.

Customs component: For its customs software ACD chose ASYCUDA (Automated
System for Customs Data), developed by UNCTAD and used in more than 80 other
countries. This offered the advantage of being immediately available and, after initial
installation with the help of UNCTAD staff, ACD could call on a wide pool of specialists
familiar with its applications. In particular, Iranian Customs was already using the same
software (ASYCUDA++) and was willing to provide ACD with training and operating
manuals in Farsi, which is very close to Dari, one of Afghanistan’s two official languages.
Iranian Customs also provided ACD with the services of some of its specialists to set up
the system and train ACD staff.

Ministry of Commerce component: ‘Trade facilitation’ covers a variety of activities
that reduce the transaction costs of trade. In the present context it referred mainly to
technical assistance offered to MoCe to build its capacity to manage regulations and
procedures governing trade, to encourage development of associations representing
traders (to give them voice and build mutual trust vis-à-vis the Government), and to
provide training.

The problem that justified inclusion of assistance in setting up a national standards
agency was the lack, in 2003 when the project was being prepared, of any trustworthy
mechanism for verifying the quality and hence valuation of several large import flows:
    (a) Fuels and lubricants, much of them for military consumption and programs of the
       major donors --who were tax-exempt, which set up a high risk of abuse
    (b) building materials --needed for the post-conflict reconstruction program
    (c) pharmaceuticals for public health
    (d) pesticides and seeds needed to restart agricultural production
It was common for jet fuel to be sold as kerosene, for domestic household heating and
cooking --with the risk of fires or even explosions.

At the outset SMTQ for POL (petroleum oil & lubricants) was entrusted to Fuel Liquids
Gas Enterprise (FLGE) under Ministry of Commerce, while for the rest of the
commodities was entrusted to the Afghan Chamber of Commerce --the fox minding the
hen-run.
                                            4

At that time Customs duties were generating some 70% of total fiscal revenues; meaning
under-valuation risked seriously undermining the Government's liquidity. And later it
came under the Ministry of Commerce, still likely to be biased in favor of private
importers. However, the standards agency, once up and running, would ensure that there
was no direct interface between it and traders.

The Bank has limited experience of funding such agencies. In any country there is a risk
that a standards agency will be intrusive and a cause of delay at borders --as the Bank has
seen in Cambodia, for example. Bank team members visited counterpart agencies in
South-east Asia and elsewhere to make sure they were current as to good practice.

Implementation partner: For Afghanistan the biggest problems were sure to be the
shortage of capacity in public institutions to manage projects, the absence of acceptable
public financial management and procurement systems, and the appropriate public works
department to manage the delivery of infrastructure. For this reason the UN’s Office for
Project Services (UNOPS) would be hired to manage all procurement, supervise contract
implementation and conduct financial management. This would also facilitate
Government’s engaging UNCTAD through an interagency letter of agreement with
UNOPS for implementing the Customs ICT, and likewise with UNIDO for the Standards
component.

The choice of components and implementing agencies was appropriate and timely to
achieve the project development objective. The exposition in the body of the appraisal
report might have benefited from some greater clarity as to the allocation of financing
among the two implementing agencies and structured commentary on the sectoral
context: expected interaction with other ministries involved in border management and
transit, namely, the Ministry of the Interior (Border Police and Customs Police) and the
Ministry of Transport (responsible for road infrastructure and the regulation of transport
services operating in the trade corridors). However, the PAD’s Attachment 6 provided a
clear, relevant and concise view of Afghanistan’s trade flows, trading partners, and
international trade corridors connecting it with Central Asia and with seaports on the
Indian Ocean (Pakistan) and the Gulf (Iran), as well as the current and prospective state
of road transport and rail transport. It also made the link to the IDA-supported
Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project ($153 million including additional
financing), which had been appraised half a year ahead of the present project.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable.

1.7 Other significant changes
At the end of the planned implementation period, the Afghan government asked IDA for
additional financing, within the same project objective and description, to continue the
essential technical assistance activities for a further year and a half, while a follow-on
project was being prepared and appraised. This would allow continued rollout of
ASYCUDA to additional border crossings and inland clearance depots (ICDs),
completion of civil works at the new Jalalabad ICD, and continued technical assistance to
be provided by UNCTAD to MoCe, for key trade facilitation activities including
                                                 5

accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), review of transit agreements and
improvement in the freight forwarding industry. It also covered continued operational
support by UNOPS to Customs and the standards agency. Lastly, it would allow ACD to
cope with the substantial increase in unit costs experienced during the implementation
period. The additional funding was duly provided (IDA grant H496) in the amount of
$6.8 million.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was prepared in an exceptionally short period of time –as part of an
accelerated response by the donor community to the urgent post-conflict needs of the
Afghan government to re-establish a functioning administration, restore law and order,
and resume the collection of fiscal revenues. IDA regional management approved the
Project Concept Note on September 3, 2003; appraisal took place on September 29-
October 19; the credit agreement was negotiated on November 20 (only one day) and the
Board approved the project on December 23, 2003. That is, less than four months
elapsed between project concept review and Board approval, an exceptionally quick
delivery responding to the urgency of the borrower’s needs.

Such rapid processing could only have been possible through a combination of high
professional standards and expertise on the Bank team’s part, and likewise high
motivation on the part of the counterpart managers in ACD and other Afghan
stakeholders, and good coordination among all parties.

For its part, the project team took advantage of the wide experience gained by the World
Bank from trade facilitation and customs reform operations in many other developing
countries. The team included world-level specialists in customs administration, including
a customs expert who had played a major role in designing and supervising
implementation of customs reform and trade facilitation projects in eight countries of
former Yugoslavia and other countries of Southeast Europe over the period 2000-2004
(known as the TTFSE1 program).

Project design struck an appropriate balance between short-term practical assistance
aimed at rapidly bringing border crossing transactions under central control and
generating increased fiscal revenue, and longer-term strategic goals regarding the
building up of customs institutional capacity, clarification of roles among border control
agencies (especially among Customs, customs police and border police), and




1
  “Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe?, involving coordinated projects in Romania,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Macedonia, Albania, Serbia & Montenegro, and Moldova. See
IEG’s “TTFSE Program and Project Performance Assessment Report?, June 2010
                                                  6

improvement of governance and transparency. The PAD2 was admirably comprehensive
yet pertinent and clear.

The project design and the appraisal report gave detailed recognition of the multiple
international donors operating in overlapping areas. The main donors were IDA, two
programs of the US government, EC and DFID (UK). The Bank had had experience with
these same donors in the TTFSE program.

The PAD could have explained the rationale for including the Standards and Metrology
component more forcefully. Inherently such an agency is at considerable risk of
corruption, given the degree of monopoly power and discretion it confers on its agents,
which could easily be abused. It would have been helpful to see a more explicit
explanation as to why it was warranted as a priority, especially when the overall structure
of border controls and their division of labor was still unclear and fluid. This component
complicated project implementation, since it came under the Ministry of Commerce.

Risks were appropriately recognized, especially the fragility of the post-conflict security
arrangements and the limited control of the central government over provincial leaders.

Quality at entry, then, was highly satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
The agreed approach to fund a time-slice of ACD’s 5-year plan implied some flexibility
to adjust to changing priorities over time. The final outputs were agreed and established
once the credit was approved, consistent with criteria set out in the PAD and agreed at
negotiations.

The appraisal foresaw the need for radical rebuilding of government capacity in the MoF,
ACD and MoCe. This required back-to-basics preparation of organizational strategic
plans, codes of professional ethics, business plans and budgets, salary scales, hiring
practices, performance evaluation of managers, and related personnel policies. Much of
this had to be done in parallel with the more conventional project activities of
procurement and construction supervision –like rebuilding a vehicle while it is being
driven, with passengers in it.

It is therefore understandable that the first half year of project implementation (2004) was
slow, but the few good people available were working hard on getting things started,
including in particular hiring UNOPS as the main implementing agent, as well as
contracting with UNCTAD to help ACD introduce computerization from scratch and
equip its border posts with the basic essentials of reliable power supply and
communications.



2
  Since the IDA credit was processed under the Bank’s streamlined procedures for emergency operations,
the project appraisal document bore the title “Technical Annex?. However, the term ‘project appraisal
document’ (PAD) is used in this report to avoid possible confusion as to its purpose and content.
                                           7

In parallel, a start was made to set up a national standards agency. The most acute need
for this agency was felt in connection with fuels and lubricants, all imported.
Afghanistan lacked any basis for verifying that what was delivered matched the intended
specifications and the declared valuations for customs purposes. UNIDO was retained to
help MoCe review its policies and develop an action plan for setting up the standards
agency.

Implementation went largely according to plan, with the progressive roll-out of
computerization first at the busiest border crossing point --Torkham, on the road from
Peshawar (and the port of Karachi) to Kabul-- and at the inland clearance depots serving
the same corridor in Jalalabad and Kabul itself, as well as Kabul Airport, a relatively
receptive site. Then the same was implemented on the second most busy corridor, that
connecting Iran (Mashad and the Gulf port of Bandar Abbas) via Islam Qala to Herat, and
then on the northern corridor from Uzbekistan via Hairatan to Mazar-e Sharif.

At appraisal $1 million had been earmarked for technical assistance to the national tax
administration within MoF. Some of this money was used to upgrade the unit for large
taxpayers, part of the MoF building, and the rest was used in financing the new Customs
and Revenue Headquarters in Kabul. (Customs shares this building with the National
Tax Administration.) This initiative was intended to ensure some synergy between
Customs and the tax administration, and to enable economies of scale.

A mid-term review was held between November 2005 and March 2006 and a substantial
report was submitted in June 2006. It documented the early delays in mobilizing
resources and set out an agenda of corrective actions, with emphasis on strengthening
coordination among the various government entities involved, as well as the international
donors. A new Director General of Customs and a new Deputy Minister of Finance for
Customs and Revenue were appointed soon after, as was the first head of the new Afghan
National Standards Authority (ANSA). These appointments seem to have helped to solve
several of the problems flagged by the Bank’s supervision missions, in speeding up
government actions on issues that had been pending for a long time.

Unfortunately, it was at about the time of the Mid-Term Review that the security
situation began to deteriorate. As a consequence access to certain provinces became
unreliable. This caused the planned construction of an ICD in Khost to be postponed
indefinitely. However, the funding earmarked for it was transferred to the Jalalabad ICD,
which was expected to pick up the traffic diverted from the Khost border crossing.

The additional financing of $6.8 million was approved in June 2009, most of which
provided retroactive financing to reimburse $5 million in expenditures already incurred
by ACD and MoF between 2008 and 2009. The project completion date was extended to
December 31, 2010.

In 2007 the supervision reports called on senior Bank management to seek the IMF’s
support on two policy issues in its dialogue with the Afghan central government. The
first was the need for higher salaries and pensions and better personnel policies for
                                            8

Customs staff, consistent with overall reforms of the civil service, but also recognizing
that the nature of the customs task –notably handling large sums of money and adhering
to a code of ethics- warranted salaries and incentives above the levels of the mainstream
civil service. These (summed up as a larger annual budget for ACD) should create
incentives and rewards for more professional behavior.

The second policy issue flagged by 2007 supervision reports was the need to replace the
revenue target approach for Customs, which at the operational level was working against
the development of more rigorous Customs procedures: assessing revenue strictly
according to the cargo’s value and applying the relevant duty rate.

The 2007 and 2008 supervision missions also called on the Government to tackle the
problem of provincial interplay with Customs, and to fill certain crucial gaps in the
Customs strategic reforms, especially as to the division of responsibilities and powers at
border crossings among Customs (under MoF and unarmed), the Customs Police (under
the Ministry of Interior and armed) and the Border Police (also under Interior). The latter
two bodies applied concepts and practices regarding enforcement that differed from that
of Customs and were at odds with ACD’s mission to facilitate trade on the basis of risk
management. And the confusion encouraged corruption.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The set of indicators for measuring achievement of the project outcomes and
(intermediate) outputs was very appropriate, having been tested and honed in previous
Bank projects. The baseline values were duly established in the months immediately
following Board approval, and the targets adopted proved generally realistic. The results
framework was further developed as part of the mid-term review.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards: No major safeguard issues were reported by the Bank’s supervision team.
As expected, the environmental and social impacts were limited –since the infrastructure
funded by the project generally involved the construction of buildings and fenced
compounds on land already occupied by the border control agencies, in remote locations
without water and power supply.

Fiduciary compliance: As part of the Bank’s support for building the capacity of the
state and its accountability to its citizens, it helped the Government establish the basic
legal framework underlying public financial management (PFM) and public procurement.
Significant progress has been made in establishing a functioning PFM system under
MoF’s direction. Project accounting, payments, financial statements and responsibility
for submission of audited financial statements are centralized within MoF. In 2005 and
again at the end of 2007 the Bank assessed the government-wide PFM system, used for
all IDA and ARTF projects, against the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
performance measurement framework. The system was found to be better than average
for low-income countries, particularly on accounting, recording and reporting.

UNOPS kept records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from project
launch until closure. MoF’s Special Disbursement Unit also maintained records of
                                             9

project receipts. All underlying supporting documents for expenditures were maintained
by UNOPS, which had good capacity to make project disbursements, with adequate
internal controls. Record keeping was satisfactory. The funds flow arrangement was
also satisfactory. All payments to UNOPS were centrally controlled by MoF. An
assessment of the process found that this has been managed appropriately from project
launch to closing.

Financial reporting was poor initially: monthly and quarterly financial reports –including
the mandatory financial monitoring reports to be submitted to the Bank each quarter–
were not prepared regularly and did not contain all required information. However,
financial reporting improved considerably over time. Annual audited financial
statements were submitted regularly, although not within the time stipulated in the
Financing Agreement except for SY 1388. There were three main reasons: delay by the
Afghan government in appointing auditors; the Government’s request for UNOPS to
resubmit accounts according to the Afghan fiscal year starting March 21 rather than the
UN’s fiscal year starting January 1; and initial absence of a separate account within
UNOPS for this project. The Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan issued qualified
opinions for the first five years, 1383 to 1387, whereas the opinion for 1388 was
unqualified (clean).

The SY1388 audit report and management letter were received shortly before the due
date. The audit report raised no key issues, and UNOPS/MoF responded satisfactorily to
all observations during the audit; no further response is required from the client. In
February 2011 a review of all project financial transactions up to the closing date raised
no issues.

Given that the financial management systems in place when the Credit became effective
were weak, one may conclude that FM capacity has been built steadily over the life of the
project. From late 2006 on, when the Bank strengthened its Kabul-based fiduciary team,
full compliance with Bank systems was achieved.

Governance/anti-corruption: In 2007 and 2008 the Bank conducted assessments in
several branches of the Afghan government, to evaluate the risks of corruption and its
potential severity. The aim was to document the aspects of public administration and its
interaction with the private sector that were most vulnerable to corruption, defined as the
‘magnitude of sums at risk x the probability of occurrence’. It was hoped that this
assessment would guide decisions of the government and the donor community as to
where to focus their anti-corruption initiatives, and also to show more clearly interactions
among various stakeholders --that is, to distinguish isolatable risks that might be easier to
correct, from systemic risks that would demand concerted action by many stakeholders
from high level down. Causes were grouped into four categories: (i) human resources
and administrative capacity, (ii) procedures, (iii) institutions, and (iv) policies. Broadly,
administrative capacity was judged the easiest category to correct and policies the hardest.

Customs was one of the branches of government examined. Its assessment confirmed
expectations that the risks were indeed high. But it also showed that most risks were not
                                           10

solely under ACD’s control. This assessment and others provided valuable inputs for
preparation of a Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) announced by the
Afghan government at the January 2010 London Conference on Afghanistan. Under the
Plan all government ministries and agencies are required to prepare an anti-corruption
plan, and their performance at delivering the results of this plan will be monitored and
reported by the newly created High Office of Oversight.

Within this framework ACD prepared its own GAAP, approved by MoF in November
2009 and endorsed by the donors working on border management. It prioritized areas
where immediate reforms could bring about governance improvements in ACD and
reduce the opportunities for corruption. It built a case for strengthening Customs
enforcement, and allowed the Government to define alert mechanisms for monitoring
infractions and other corrupt behavior.

To protect ANSA against the risk of regulatory capture, its CEO reports directly to the
President.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The strategic plan for Customs looked forward over a period exceeding five years. Given
the highly satisfactory accomplishments over the project period (2004-2008, extended to
2010), set against the continuing challenge of building institutional capacity and
improving governance in Afghanistan, it made eminent sense to continue the Bank
support through a second project to support the next time-slice of the Government’s
customs and trade facilitation strategy.

The objectives of the follow-on operations were to computerize three more trade
corridors (from Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and southeast Iran) and to upgrade the customs
software from ASYCUDA++ to ASYCUDA World (Internet based), as well as to start up
more applications. (The ASYCUDA package consisted of a set of interlinked modules.)
And then followed the second project, appraised in 2009 and approved in 2010: the
Second Customs Reform and Trade Facilitation Project, funded by an IDA grant of SDR
33.3 million, equivalent to $50.48 million. This will help finance countrywide
computerization of customs clearance operations; installation of executive information
systems for Customs allowing real time monitoring of operations; development of
possible options for cross-border Customs-to-Customs cooperation; provision of selected
customs infrastructure to enable modernized operations; and technical assistance to
support the development of an adequate regulatory, administrative and institutional
framework for Customs. Through these initiatives the project will continue the Bank’s
support as part of the overall donor effort to reform and modernize Afghan Customs and
thus also facilitate improvements in Customs’ governance environment in line with its
GAAP. This project is now –in 2011—under implementation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
                                            11

Objectives and Design: The project’s objectives and design were highly relevant,
addressing several of the central goals of the Bank’s assistance strategy: post-conflict
reconstruction, building government capacity and strengthening governance in a key
sector with a reputation as one of the most corrupt agencies of the Afghan government,
and better coordination among international donors –which in the early days of
reconstruction was particularly important.

Implementation: Implementation adhered to the design and remained consistent over
time. The Bank project team combined staff stationed in Washington DC, Islamabad (the
regional main office) and Kabul. This ensured a sound combination of disseminated
international best practice from Headquarters and local awareness and cultural sensitivity
from Kabul and Islamabad. There was continuity from appraisal to completion in the
team leadership (based in Islamabad) and in the main technical specialists and financial
management --an important function, considering the legitimate concerns about Customs
accounting and auditing. It proved valuable to have the team leadership based in the
region, as this allowed it to conduct supervision visits frequently –typically several days
every month.

During the first years of implementation the Kabul World Bank office had only limited
capacity in financial management and procurement. UNOPS brought to this assignment
its own UN-authorized fiduciary systems, which were not fully aligned with the Bank’s.
As noted above, this was resolved from late 2006 on, when the Bank strengthened its
Kabul-based fiduciary team.

While the staff costs for appraisal were low, expenditures on supervision were well above
the Bank average: during the second through fifth years they averaged about $160,000
per year (Annex 4b). This was justified, considering the difficult implementation context
and high risks of non-performance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project outcomes depended in varying degrees on the performance not only of ACD
and ANSA, but also of the Afghan government as a whole, as well as on the reverses in
the security situation as the decade advanced, and on coordinated support by other donors.
The results are shown in Annex 2.

The target for Customs revenue was exceeded by a wide margin, going from $50-60
million paid into MoF in 2003 to more than $357 million received in the fiscal year
ending March 2008—well above the target of $280 million. By the year ending March
2010, still within the extended closing date, Customs revenue had leapt to $766 million.
That is, it multiplied by 6-7 times over only five years, and 13-15 times over the seven
years of the extended project implementation period. The volume of trade grew during
the period, but it accounted for only a small part of the increase in revenue: the volume
grew at only 5-7 percent per year, far slower than the revenue.
                                             12

The implication is that previously large parts of import duties due at the border were
either not collected, or went into the pockets of the various border control agents, or were
diverted to the local government of the province in which the border post was located.

Other outcome targets were also met and surpassed. The number of declarations
processed per ACD staff member had been 91 per year in 2003 and the target was set at
200. In the fiscal year ending March 2010 it had reached 235, 18 percent over target.

Similarly, the revenue per declaration for the year ending March 2003 had been $500-600
and the end-of-project target was set at $700. In sharp contrast (though two years later
than originally planned) the actual revenue was $1,700 per declaration, 2.4 times more
than the target.

An explicit part of the project development objective was to facilitate expanded trade.
This too was achieved. The trade volume was $2.0 billion in the base year; the target for
the year ending March 2008 was $5.0 billion, and the actual for the year ending in March
2010 was $6.26 billion.

These tangible improvements were also reflected in the perceptions of the business
community. The Bank’s Logistics Performance Indicator for Afghan Customs improved
markedly from 2007 to 2010. In 2007 Afghanistan had been rated the worst performer
among the 150 countries evaluated (overall as well as in each component of the index,
including Customs). In contrast, by 2010, its Customs were ranked 104th out of the 155
countries rated. That much-improved performance helped raise Afghanistan’s overall
ranking to 143rd out of 155; the five other aspects of logistics (infrastructure, timeliness,
etc.) also showed some improvement but not nearly as much as Customs.

Monitoring and Evaluation: The above summarizes the achievement of the output and
outcome targets by the time the project was completed. Monitoring and evaluation is the
process by which results are recorded routinely and regularly fed back into management
decisions about where to allocate resources and what corrective measures might be
indicated. On this score the implementing agencies performed poorly in the early years
and improved only towards the end. The supervision missions did not rate M&E as
satisfactory until well into 2007, towards the end of the initially planned implementation
period. Their rating started out at Unsatisfactory, was Moderately Satisfactory for two
years after that, and Moderately Unsatisfactory in early 2007. This is because ACD had
not been able during that period to develop a process of regular feedback. Performance
indicators were not, until recently, sufficiently internalized. Performance monitoring
poses a direct threat to established practices of corruption; it is not surprising that
adoption was slow. The achievement of satisfactory M&E is a good indicator that
corruption has been significantly curbed. The crucial institutional gain looking forward
is that performance monitoring should continue after the Bank funding ends.

ACD’s Customs Reform Coordination Unit (CURE), set up in 2005, was a valuable
element in the effort to build ACD’s capacity. It coordinated training programs funded
                                            13

by the various donors, and helped make the most of assistance from the Customs
agencies of Iran and Pakistan –a good example of south-south technical assistance.

Afghan membership in international organizations and associations promoting
trade: The ISR of March 2006 recorded the setting up of AFPRO, a national association
of stakeholders wishing to promote trade, some public but mainly private, and AFFCO
for customs brokers. In the TTFSE program the ‘PRO’ committees played an important
role in building trust among stakeholders, especially across the public/private divide, and
in providing private-sector feedback to the government. AFPRO, in contrast, seems not
to have sustained a significant presence, probably because the Afghan chamber of
commerce and other trade bodies were undergoing disintegration, consolidation and
evolution in this time of growing insecurity, and their respective roles and interaction
with government bodies remained unclear. AFFCO, on the other hand, has been
recognized as FIATA’s local chapter. Iran’s FIATA chapter has helped AFFCO to
provide basic training for its members. Work continues on developing its role.

The same ISR of March 2006 also explained MoCe’s plans, aided by UNCTAD, to seek
membership for Afghanistan in the WTO. However, by early 2011, it was still pending
further actions by the Government and negotiations with the WTO.

Afghanistan’s membership in the international customs transit guarantee system,
Transports Internationaux Routiers (TIR), active in the 1970s, had not been reactivated.
The core issue was and remains the setting up of a national guarantee association
acceptable to the International Road Transport Union (IRU), the organization managing
the international links of the guarantee chain. One of UNCTAD’s several tasks under the
project has been to provide technical assistance to MoCe on setting up the guarantee
mechanism, under IRU’s guidance. The IRU has also brought in the Iranian TIR
guarantee association to work with Afghans to develop this further.

3.3 Efficiency

Actual expenditures complied broadly with appraisal estimates. (See Annex 1(a) for the
expected and actual project expenditures by main component. Annex 1(b) breaks down
the same totals by category of expenditure.) Unit costs rose during the implementation
period, partly compensated by the additional financing. The substantial increase in
Incremental Operating Costs shown in Annex 1(b) reflects also the extension of time for
UNOPS and the other technical assistance.

The fiscal revenues collected far in excess of expectations give good reason to think that
the return to the Afghan economy has been, and continues to be, as large as was
estimated at appraisal and probably exceeded. That would mean that tangible savings in
transport and cargo costs and reduced cargo losses would repay the total project
investment within one year –see Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
                                            14

Rating: Highly satisfactory. As Annex 2 shows, almost all the key development
indicators have been achieved and in many cases –especially the most important, fiscal
revenue-- have been far exceeded. These indicators capture well the PDO of achieving a
more efficient customs and transit regime, and facilitation of Afghanistan’s international
trade. That is, the intended outcomes have been achieved, they are highly relevant to the
PDO, and most are very cost-effective.

Achievement of the PDO was rated Satisfactory in 10 of the 13 supervision reports
(ISRs); the exceptions were when it was rated Moderately Satisfactory during the second
year of implementation, when the slow start gave cause for doubt about government
commitment. (See Annex 4(c).) Ratings for Implementation Progress were Satisfactory
from start to finish. The specific rating for FM remained ‘moderately satisfactory’ over
seven periods, longer than other functions, for country ‘flag’ reasons rather than project-
specific reasons (see Section 2.4: Fiduciary Compliance).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
These themes were not central. Anti-corruption efforts may have had a broader impact
outside the project, in so far as Customs have been widely seen as one of the most corrupt
branches of the Afghan government, so progress made in reducing corruption in Customs
may have had a knock-on effect elsewhere in the economy.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Considering the heavy reliance of MoF on customs dues as a source of fiscal revenue, it
was a very important strategic initiative to professionalize Customs, and to bring more
order into Customs’ working relations with the Border Police and other arms of
government that, at the outset, had overlapping jurisdictions and unclear limits. Some
progress has been made, notably the signing in 2009 of a memorandum of understanding
between MoF and the Ministry of Interior, describing the respective roles and
responsibilities of Customs, the Customs Police and the Border Police, and providing a
framework for developing cooperative working arrangements between the two ministries
–an excellent step towards more collaborative border management. Important aspects
remain to be sustained and broadened during the follow-on project, as the Customs Police
still does not report to ACD. The donors continue to press the Government to bring the
Customs Police under Customs’ authority.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
One unforeseen benefit was that the donor community was made far more aware than
before regarding the need for technical assistance to improve international transport –
such as that cited above in Section 3.2.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The Vulnerabilities to Corruption Assessments and the GAAP methodology developed as
a result, highlighted that over 70% of reforms necessary in Customs were actually outside
the control of the ACD. [See Section 6, Lessons Learned]

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
                                             15

Rating: Substantial
Throughout the Afghan government, even competently run departments remain at risk
that managers may be hired away by international donors or the Afghan private sector.
There is rarely any redundancy in the civil service; competent managers of integrity are
hard to attract into government at today’s low salaries, or to retain, in competition with
the far higher salaries offered by international entities, both private and public, present in
Afghanistan. So what has been achieved remains at risk, if donor ‘topping up’ of civil
service salaries is not sustained and the champions for reform move on. However, new
procedures and computerization ensure increasingly more transparency, thus providing an
audit trail, and the GAAP methodology has provided a visible tool for detecting the
weakest areas, which are now targeted for reform. The Bank team in its project-related
dialog with MoF has put considerable emphasis on the importance of raising ACD
salaries, introducing performance-based bonuses, and generally strengthening ACD’s
human resources function, to create a culture of good governance, align staff incentives
with the Customs’ mission, and to change expectations. But this takes time and can
easily suffer steps backwards.

Another lingering risk is the continued interference in Customs affairs by the
governments of provinces in which the border crossings are located –with a view to
diverting revenue into the provincial budget. However, ASYCUDA limits this risk to
some extent. What is most needed now to address this risk is on-line, real-time
monitoring.

Third, the Customs Police --which still reports to the Ministry of Interior-- has created
difficulties in coordinating operations at border posts between border police and Customs,
especially regarding application of selective inspection under risk-based processing.
They carry arms, while Customs agents do not. This problem is not unique to
Afghanistan.

According to user surveys, the Border Police are the most corrupt among border agencies,
followed by the Customs Police. Their overarching presence allows these two
institutions to extort money from importers and traders, without any control, and even
more so that they are armed. Customs cannot operate, in any environment, unless they
have adequate powers of enforcement. No progress can be made in facilitation if
Customs do not have sole responsibility –and not only at the border point but also along
the transit route to inland destination– in terms of control of goods, and to a large extent,
of vehicles. Today a proposal to put Customs Police under the authority of ACD, or to
give Customs agents the right to carry arms, is awaiting a high-level (president's)
decision. This would meet the Bank's vision of how coordinated border management
should be conducted.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly satisfactory. The PAD (literally ‘Technical Annex’, as this was an
emergency operation) is distinctive for its high professional quality, sound assessment of
                                                   16

the difficult environment, setting of strategic priorities, and clear PDOs and performance
indicators, all done within a surprisingly short time.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Highly satisfactory. The supervision team reported regularly every half year, in
detail. It also made frequent intermediate missions from Islamabad as needed. Its
performance was very satisfactory as regards improvement of donor coordination, now
institutionalized in the Informal Customs Network.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Highly satisfactory


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. All the essential project components have been implemented as
planned. There have been delays, but adherence to timetables and achievement of targets
has been good by comparison with other arms of the Afghan government (including some
other IDA-supported projects). Further efforts are still needed to fully resolve the
conflicts of authority among Customs, Border Police and Customs Police.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. This covers three agencies:
(i) ACD has performed satisfactorily.
(ii) UNOPS’ performance has been satisfactory overall, despite some lapses. Early on it
failed to seek prior Bank approval before hiring 11 individual consultants. The next
supervision mission brought this to UNOPS’ attention and there was no repetition. That
UNOPS took some time and some exchanges with the Bank before agreeing to apply the
Bank’s fiduciary standards (financial management and procurement) rather than the UN’s,
was regrettable, though not major in its consequences.
(iii) The standards agency, ANSA, has been handicapped by the continued failure of the
Government to pass the proposed Standards Law, warranting a rating of ‘moderately
satisfactory’.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory This follows from the ‘satisfactory’ rating for the performance of
both the Government and the main implementing agencies.

6. Lessons Learned
a) Donor coordination: Donor coordination was rightly given considerable attention, as
is warranted in any post-conflict situation where the government severely lacks
administrative capacity and strategic priorities may not be clear. The Bank was one
among half a dozen major donors to Customs. Perseverance has been rewarded by a
distinct improvement in coordination on development priorities. It has also to a large
extent prevented the Government from playing donors against one another.
                                           17

b) Sequencing project activities: The sequencing of project activities, starting with
computerization of the internal transit process, was wise and proved its worth –compared
with other options. It was the main requirement for wresting control over customs
revenues away from provincial governments and making the inland clearance policy a
reality, which in turn ensured payment of revenue into the Government account.

First, the Bank insisted that the most important issue in Afghanistan was establishing
control over the goods as soon as they entered the country. This went against the
UNCTAD tradition of starting ASYCUDA with either the easy part: exports at airports,
or what is normally the most obvious contribution to revenue collection: the processing
of import declarations. However, this would not have worked in Afghanistan where, if
goods are not reported to Customs at the border, they tend to be lost for good. Therefore,
the ASYCUDA (internal) transit module was deployed as a priority. It closed what was
revealed to be a major gap, as volumes of goods reported to inland clearance facilities
increased in a spectacular way, and there is now a negligible difference between what is
recorded at entry and what is reported inland.

Second, ASYCUDA enabled the new policy of clearing inland, i.e., close to where the
final users are, and where proper control expertise is available. It also helped budget
resourcing, as the computer system enabled MoF officials to know how much revenue
could be expected, and investigate why payments made to provincial offices were not
transferred centrally.

Third, it provided statistics that have allowed ACD to measure performance and
benchmark staffing levels according to traffic –a valuable protection against corruption.

c) Using an external implementation consultant: Using UNOPS was warranted, given
the thinness of the civil service and its governance weaknesses. However, in starting up
such collaboration in any post-conflict situation, attention needs to be paid to ensuring
that the implementing consultant understands and accepts the differences between World
Bank fiduciary systems and those of the UN.

d) Assessing corruption risks: The ‘Vulnerabilities to Corruption’ Assessments (VCA),
covering various sectors of the Afghan civil service and conducted since 2007 by the
World Bank and other leading donors, offer an innovative approach that may be useful in
other countries. The VCA for the Customs sector conducted by the World Bank in 2008-
9, substantiated intuitive perceptions that many governance issues required action and
support by government agencies in addition to the Customs administration. It also
provided a simulation tool to anticipate revenue collection improvements if and when
remedial action was taken. How the assessment was conducted may also offer useful
pointers for other countries.

It was clear to the donor community that Afghan Customs was high-risk as to corruption,
but there was no consensus about how to tackle it. Each donor had its own approach.
The VCA approach put forward by the Bank was rigorous, to a degree quantitative (a
novelty), and replicable at different locations and over time. This recommended it
strongly to the donor community, which now has substantially signed on to this approach.
                                            18

It was in part a consequence of the VCA that the donors set up an informal Customs
network, in which the Bank plays a central role.

The Bank now puts a lot of effort, in all borrower countries, into corruption risk
assessments and has made it mandatory for all lending operations, in accordance with a
template.

e) Coordination with IMF: This project provided an opportunity to clarify the issue of
revenue targets that has arisen here and elsewhere, where the Bank and the IMF may
have different viewpoints. The IMF has often encouraged ministries of finance to adopt
revenue targets for Customs. The Bank recognizes their merit at the macro level, but the
way in which these targets are internalized, in Afghanistan as in other transition countries,
often has unintended consequences. Workstation targets are counter-productive, in
particular in Afghanistan, as vested interests lead to local managers being given revenue
targets that they are expected to collect, in exchange for turning a blind eye to what is
really entering the country. Another undesired outcome is that Customs house staff
divide the revenue target by the number of trucks expected, irrespective of what should
really be paid; and random post-release gate checks have shown that large quantities of
imports have been under-assessed as a result.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

       None

(b) Cofinanciers

       None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

       None
                                                             19



   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

         (a) Project Cost by Component


                                   Appraisal Estimate ($ mn)                     Actual ($ million)            Percentage
Components                                                                                                         of
                                  Cr 3844       H496         Total        Cr 3844      H496         Total      Appraisal
A time-slice of ACD's
                                      26.2            5.9       32.1            26.5       6.3         32.8       102%
5-year plan
Capacity building for
                                        4.8           0.9         5.7            6.1       1.0          7.0       124%
trade facilitation
Total financing required              31.0            6.8       37.8            32.6       7.3         39.8       105%


         (b) Project Cost by Expenditure Category
                                   Appraisal Estimate ($ mn)                      Actual ($ million)            Percentage
                                                                                                                    of
Categories                        Cr 3844       H 4963      Total         Cr 3844      H 496       Total4       Appraisal
Goods, works & services
                                     13.9            1.3       15.2          15.5         1.3         16.8         111%
financed through grants
Goods                                 5.1            0.7        5.8             2.3       0.4          2.7           47%
Consultant services,
                                      9.7            3.0       12.7             8.7       3.5         12.2           95%
training and audit costs
Incremental operating
                                      1.3            1.8        3.1             6.0       2.1          8.1         258%
costs
Unallocated                           1.0                       1.0           0           0            0
TOTAL                                31.0            6.8       37.8          32.5         7.3         39.8         105%


         (c) Financing
                                       Appraisal Estimate                 Actual           Percentage of
                Source of Funds
                                          ($ million)                   ($ million)         Appraisal
               IDA                            31.0                       37.8                      122%
               Borrower                        0.0                        0.0




   3
       There was only one disbursement category under Additional Financing Grant No. H496. However, to make the table
       and figures consistent, the Team has used the break-up of the single category.

   4
       The difference of $2 million between the appraisal estimate and actual was due to higher US$ to SDR exchange rate
       gains and interest earnings
                                                             20



  Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  Table 2a: Project Outcomes and Key Performance Indicators
         (from final ISR, May 2010)

                                                  Baseline Value         End of Project         Progress Value5
Summary           Performance Indicator
                                                  09/2003                Target Value           03/2010 (SY 1388)
                  Customs revenue                 $50-60 million         $280 million           $7666 million
Measuring         Declarations per staff          91                     200                    235
ACD’s             Revenue/declaration             $500-600               $700                   $1,699
performance
at national                                                              One complete
                  ASYCUDA         Transit         Nil                                           Five complete transit axis
level                                                                    transit axis
                  implement-
                                  Electronic                             One DPS7
                  ation                           Nil                                           Five DPS implementation
                                  declarations                           implementation
                  Trade volume                    $2.0 billion/yr        $5.0 billion/year      $6.26 billion/yr
                                                                                                Torkham Border: 91% of
                                                  Kabul ICD:             Kabul ICD:             trucks cleared in fewer
                                                  18 hours (overall)     90 min                 than 90 min (all checks,
                                                  7hr 8 min                                     customs time not
                                                  (customs)                                     measured separately)
Measuring         Truck release time
                                                  Kabul airport: na                             Overall customs
trade and                                                                Border Stations:       performance
transit                                           Border Stations:       40 min                 measurement not carried
regime                                            na                     (customs)              out nationally due to
                                                                                                security issues.
                  Logistics Performance           Score = 1.21           Ranking                Score = 2.24
                  Index8                          Rank = 150             improved to 130        Rank = 143
                  Logistics Performance           Score = 1.30           Ranking                Score = 2.22
                  Index (Customs)                 Rank = 150             improved to 130        Rank = 104

  Target Val




  5
      Source: Tariff, Research and Statistics Unit, Afghanistan Customs Department
  6
    This is the total revenue collected by Customs and includes: Customs duties $428 mn (56%); other charges $34 mn
  (4%); taxes $151 mn (20%); BRT tax $145 mn (19%); and Red Crescent $8 mn (1%). All figures are rounded to the
  nearest $ million and converted from Afs using the Mar 30, 2010 exchange rate of 48.35 Afs/$.
  7
      Declaration processing system –a central function of the ASYCUDA suite of modules
  8
   Baseline figures for Logistics Performance Index are for 2007 (first LPI edition) and progress value is recorded for
  2010 (second LPI edition); www.worldbank.org/lpi.
                                                                21


     Table 2b: Project Outputs
          (from final ISR, May 2010)
                                                       Target Value
Summary                    Indicator                   (End of            Value Achieved (06/2010)
                                                       Project9)
Customs and
related transit            Number of facilities
                                                                          Target Achieved. 62 facilities
infrastructure are         repaired/constructed &       62 facilities
                                                                          (All civil works completed).
improved.                  functionally improved

                                                                          Target achieved. 15 locations (Kabul HQ, Kabul
Improved and                                                              ICD, Kabul Airport, Jalalabad ICD, Torkham,
                           Number of facilities                           Herat, Islam Qala, Sher Khan Bandar, Hairatan,
reliable
                           connected through                              Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz, Kandahar, Spinboldak,
telecommunications
                           communication and                              Nimroz & Torghundi).
network is set up to
                           VSAT/VPN and other                             Target has been surpassed with communications
support the                                                  14
                           network (of these,                             equipment installed on more than planned sites.
modernization and
                           number of facilities
reform of ACD and                                                         15 locations were delivered initially, but 4 have
                           where no mobile
to help facilitate                                                        since been decommissioned based on ACD
                           telephony exists)
trade.                                                                    priorities, and their equipment has been
                                                                          transferred to other, existing locations.
                                                                          Target achieved. The target has been surpassed
                                                                          through operationalization of internal transit
                                                                          system on 4 axes: Torkham-Jalalabad-Kabul,
ASYCUDA is                                                                Islam Qala-Herat-Kabul and Heiratan-Mazar-e
                           Level of ASYCUDA            ASYCUDA            Sharif-Kabul and Torghundi-Herat-Kabul.
functional and fully
                           development and             covers 2 main      Transit (T1) functional on 4 major transit axes,
used by the customs
                           implementation              trade axes         70% traffic covered: DPS functional at 5 major
staff.
                                                                          locations (Kabul ICD & Airport, Herat, Kunduz/
                                                                          Sher Khan Bandar & Jalalabad ICDs).
                                                                          55% trade covered by value.
                                                                          Target achieved with ANSA carrying out regular
                           Quality and safety of       Inspection
                                                                          inspections. ANSA carrying out regular testing of
                           traded/imported/            mechanism in
                                                                          oil and lubricants. More than 400 tests have been
                           exported goods              place
                                                                          performed.
An effective                                                              Target partially achieved. ANSA has been
mechanism for                                                             established and is now carrying out regular testing
standards,                                             ANSA               of oil and lubricants. ANSA receiving core
metrology and                                          supported by       administrative & recurrent budget from MoF,
quality control is         Establishment of            Afghan             most of the staff recruited through PRR. A total of
established.               ANSA                        Standards and      92 staff members have now become civil servants
                                                       Metrology          (40 technical), with 342 as the total strength of
                                                       Law                ‘Tashkeel’ for ANSA.
                                                                          Standards and Metrology Law under consideration
                                                                          by the Cabinet.




     9
         Project end date extended with the additional financing from June 30, 2009 to December 31, 2010
                                                          22



      Table 2b. Project Outputs (continued)

                                                   Target Value
Summary                   Indicator                                   Value Achieved (06/2010)
                                                   (End of Project)
                          Establishment of
                          AFPRO --public-
                                                   AFPRO              Target achieved: AFPRO is functional, though
                          private trade &
                                                   functional         its influence has been less than expected.
                          transport facilitation
                          committee
Trade Facilitation                                                    Agreement for exchange of transit rights was
                          Number of                Afghanistan -
Initiative launched to                                                signed in Islamabad on 28 October 2010.
                          international trade      Pakistan Transit
promote and
                          and transit treaties     Trade Agreement    Uzbek-Afghan Rail agreement & Afghan-
facilitate regional and
                          initiated negotiations   (APTTA)            China-Kazakh transit agreements are in process.
bilateral trade of
goods and services                                                    A TIR Workshop led by IRU was held in Kabul
                                                                      in May 2010. Favorable conditions for
                          Membership in TIR        Membership in      Afghanistan to achieve TIR membership exist.
                          re-activated             TIR re-activated   Given the weak financial environment in
                                                                      Afghanistan and the continuing insecurity, this
                                                                      output will not be achieved.
                                                   Memo of            No further progress since the last reporting
                                                   Foreign Trade      period in November 2010.
Assistance towards
                                                   Regime (MFTR)      Feedback received from WTO on MFTR and
accession to WTO
                                                   agreed by          action plan for WTO accession sent to Cabinet
                                                   Afghan Cabinet     for approval.
Reform and                Setting up of trade      Afghan
                                                                      Target achieved. AFFCO has been set up, with a
modernization of          association for          companies
                                                                      local training consultant completing training
trucking and freight      Afghan freight           issuing through-
                                                                      sessions in Kabul, Herat and Mazar-e- Sharif.
forwarding industries     forwarders (AFFCO)       bills-of-ladings
                                            23




Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

There is little doubt that the savings in trade and transport costs estimated at appraisal
were met and very probably exceeded.

The analysis of economic benefits presented in Annex 12 of the PAD started out by
recognizing that Customs reform and the expected large increase in fiscal revenues from
customs dues were likely to have far-reaching impacts on the effectiveness of the
government and on Afghanistan’s trade. But it was not feasible to quantify such benefits
in aggregate. On the other hand, some elements of such benefits could be estimated:
savings in truck times and the cost of holding cargo inventory, thanks to faster processing
at borders; and reduced cargo losses and handling costs, thanks to the avoidance of off-
loading and reloading at the borders and to greater use of sealed containers.

The PAD estimated annual savings to be gained from one day saved at border posts,
together with the reduced handling cost and cargo losses from transshipment, at about
$30 million per year. This happens to be approximately the cost of the project, so the
conclusion was that the whole project cost could be recouped in just one year of full-scale
implementation of the planned processing improvements at border crossings. This alone
–without counting the likely broader impacts—would constitute a high and rapid return
on investment.

Ex post, the performance indicators show that the reduction in delays at borders have
generally exceeded expectations: savings of more than one working day are reported
from the border crossing posts handling the largest import flows. And the system of
internal transits, allowing goods to be brought to ICDs in the major cities for clearance,
has eliminated the need for much of the previous off-loading and reloading at the borders.

Though we have not attempted a detailed recalculation, it is clear that, in terms of
benefits to the Afghan economy, the more tangible savings alone amply justify the
project investment.
                                           24



Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team Members
                    Names                            Title                  Unit
        Christophe Bosch             Sector Leader                         AFTUW
        Asger Christensen            Consultant                            SASDE
        Carlos F. De Castro          Trucking Consultant                   SASDE
        Amer Zafar Durrani           Snr Transport Specialist              SASDT
        Shaukat Javed                Program Assistant                     SASDO
        Santhanam Krishnan           Consultant                            ENVCF
        Peter Middlebrook            E T Consultant                        SASEP
        Suzanne F. Morris            Senior Finance Officer                CTRFC
        Amir Munir                   Senior Business Partnership Officer   ISGOS
        Ayaz Parvez                  Disaster Risk Management Specialist   GFDRR
        Irene Julitta Ponniah        Financial Management Specialist       SARFM
        Simon Thomas                 Lead Transport Economist              SASDT
        Linda Van Gelder             Sector Manager                        EASPR
        Michel Zarnowiecki           Customs Consultant                    SASDT

       Hiam Abbas                    Consultant                            WBIUR
       Hania Ahsan Abbas             Temporary                             SASDT
       Muhammad Wali Ahmadzai        Financial Management Analyst          SARFM
       Syed Sayem Ali                Research Analyst                      SASEP
       William Byrd                  Adviser                               OPCFC
       Abdul Mohammad Durani         E T Consultant, social impacts        SASDI
       Akbar Khan Durrani            Consultant                            SASDT
       Amer Zafar Durrani            TTL/ Senior Transport Specialist      SASDT
       Nagaraju Duthaluri            Senior Procurement Specialist         SARPS
       Michaela K. Eglin             Consultant                            SASDE
       Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist         SARPS
       Yusuf Hussain                 Consultant, ICT                       SASDT
       Yoichiro Ishihara             Senior Economist                      OPCAE
       Zafar Ismail                  Consultant                            SASDU
       Shaukat Javed                 Program Assistant                     SASDO
       Abdul Hameed Khalili          Consultant                            SASDT
       Muhammad Waseem Khan          Consultant                            SASDT
       Marianne Kilpatrick           Sr Transport. Spec.                   SASDT
       Uruj Ahmad Kirmani            Consultant                            MNSHD
       Arun Kumar Kolsur             Procurement Specialist                SARPS
       Dhirendra Kumar               Consultant                            SASDU
       Yubka Stanimirova Mihailova   Consultant                            ECSSD
       Amir Munir                    Senior Business Partnership Of        ISGOS
       Monica Alina Mustra           Trade Specialist                      PRMTR
       Asha Narayan                  Financial Management Analyst          SARFM
       Kenneth Okpara                Sr Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
       Michaela Alexandra Prokop     Consultant                            SASDT
       Cordula Rastogi               Transport Economist                   ECSS5
                                              25

          Michelle Rebosio Calderon     E T Consultant                       SDV
          Sana Ikram Sharif             Temporary                           SASDT
          Anita Shrestha                Procurement Asst.                   EAPPR
          Paul Edwin Sisk               Lead Financial Management Spec      SARFM
          Graham Smith                  Trade & Transport Consultant        MNSSD
          Mehreen Tanvir                Consultant                          SASDT
          Per Wam                       Sr Social Scientist                  SDV
          Rahimullah Wardak             Procurement Specialist              SARPS
          Hasan Afzal Zaidi             Transport Specialist                SASDT
          Michel Zarnowiecki            Customs Consultant                  SASDT

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          $ 000 (including travel and
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                             23                        158
                             Total:                23                        158
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                           12                           51
  FY05                                           28                          145
  FY06                                           36                          162
  FY07                                           39                          162
  FY08                                           43                          170
  FY09                                           19                          115
  FY10                                           14                           95
  FY11                                           13                           69
                             Total:             205                          962

(c) Implementation Performance Ratings

No. ISR Date      Prj Dvt   Implmt Financl Project Cntrpt Procur- Mntg                  Legal
                  Objctv    Prgress Mgt          Mgt        Fundg ment          & Eval Compl
 1      4/2004                Initial ISR when credit declared effective –no ratings
 2     12/2004      S          S          NR         U                   S        U
 3      6/2005      MS         S           S         S         S         S        MS
 4      3/2006      MS         S           S         S         S         S        MS      C
 5      6/2006      MS         S           S         S         S       MU         MS      C
 6     12/2006      S          S          MS         S         S        MS        MS      C
 7      7/2007       S         S          MS         S         S        MS       MU       C
 8     12/2007       S         S           S         S         S         S         S      C
 9      6/2008       S         S          MS         S         S         S         S      C
                            Credit fully disbursed, additional financing being prepared
 10    12/2008       S         S          MS         S         S         S         S      C
 11     5/2009       S         S          MS         S         S         S         S      C
 12    11/2009       S         S          MS         S         S         S         S      C
 13     5/2010       S         S          MS         S         S         S         S      C
                                      26




Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(Not applicable)



Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(Not applicable)
                                           27


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     Project approach

In July 2003 (SY1381), Afghanistan Customs Department (ACD) prepared a Five Year
Plan (FYP) to achieve government’s objectives in revenue collection. It requested the
assistance of the International Development Association (IDA) under the World Bank to
implement the plan. The Bank responded with an Emergency Customs Modernization
and Trade Facilitation Project (ECMTFP) to (1) develop the enabling regulatory, physical,
and commercial environment for fiscal control of trade revenues in the short term; and in
the medium to long term (2) increase trade and transport competitiveness of Afghanistan
by reducing transaction costs.

The project was planned to achieve these objectives through improvements in: (a) key
customs and related transit infrastructure and communications; and (b) the capacity for
customs and transit administration.

The ECMTF project was implemented by ACD under the Ministry of Finance (MOF). At
the given time, none of the Afghan government agencies had a project management
capacity, so the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) was proposed as an
implementing partner. The project further proposed engaging (through UNOPS) the
services of United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) for
providing assistance on Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA) development
and on trade facilitation; and, the services of United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) for assistance in the development of Standards, Metrology,
Testing, and Quality (SMTQ).

2.     Project Description

The project was finalized in November 2003 with an initial amount of US$31 million for
the duration of 42 months. Many amendments were signed to Management Service
Agreements (MSA) to extend the project lifecycle or commit additional funds. The
agreement on additional financing was signed between the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Afghanistan (GOIRA) and the World Bank on 28 April 2009 (SY1387)
awarding additional US$6.81 million to the project and extending its completion date till
31 December 2010 (SY1388). The MSA has been extended up to December 2011. As of
February 2011 (SY1389), a total amount of US$39,808,434 was disbursed under the
project.

The World Bank has identified several macro indicators to monitor project performance.
These indicators were classified into two broad categories: (1) indicators of efficiency,
and (2) indicators of workload. Calculation of these indicators required country-wide
annual data on customs revenue, customs personnel, ACD budget, trade volume, and
number of customs declarations processed by the staff.
                                           28

To evaluate the project’s impact on trade facilitation, the World Bank has identified
indicators demonstrating (1) improvements in key customs and transit related
infrastructure and communications; and (2) the capacity for customs and transit
administration.

a)     Infrastructure and Equipment

UNOPS assisted ACD/MOF in implementing the construction of physical infrastructure
of customs and transit throughout the country, procurement and installation of all ICT
sub-projects, and rehabilitation of physical infrastructure including design, supervision,
and project management. Total of 100 sub-projects were implemented in the project’s
lifetime in the value of over US$13 million, such as construction of Kabul ACD
headquarters, Jalalabad ICD, renovation of MOCI, renovation of Kabul airport customs
house. Sixty two customs facilities were constructed. As of June 2010 (SY1388), 67
works were procured through shopping method; 32 - through NCB; and one -through
ICB. An attachment with the list of procured works provides further details.

UNOPS was also engaged in the technical assistance for overall customs policy and
strategic advice, ACD budgeting, and assets management. Besides, UNOPS procured all
vehicles and equipment for the project and provided overall project implementation
support to TISA, as well as administrative and implementation support to UNCTAD and
UNIDO.

Procurement of goods was done through turnkey contracts. Goods in the value of US$ 5
million were procured, including ICT equipment for ASYCUDA implementation, power
generators, UPS and other assets for assured power supply to ASYCUDA facilities and
cargo handling equipment. As of June 2010 (SY1388), 3025 items were procured through
a shopping method, and one item - through NCB. An attachment with the list of assets
provides further details.

End-of-project and progress indicators were compared with September 2003 (SY1381)
values. Customs revenue increased from US$60 million in September 2003 (SY1381) to
US$970 million in 2010 (SY1389)). Official trade volume quadrupled from US$2 billion
to US$8 billion. Declarations filed per staff increased from 91 to 202. Revenue per
declaration increased from US$600 to US$1149.

b)     Trade Facilitation

Thanks to improved infrastructure, truck release time decreased from 1080 minutes to 90
minutes. ASYCUDA was non-existent in 2003 (SY1381). By the of 2010 end,
ASYCUDA was operational in six ICDs and four major trade axes covering almost 80%
of the country’s international trade traffic. Since March 2009 (SY1387), a total of
146,830 customs declarations were filed across Afghanistan out of which 79,065 (54
percent) were through ASYCUDA. During the same period, a total of 302,878 T1s
(internal transit permits) were filed through ASYCUDA, collecting US$6,057,560 as a
T1 fee.
                                             29



To achieve its trade facilitation objectives, the project facilitated the negotiations on the
Afghanistan Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement (APTTA) which culminated in signing of
this bilateral agreement between the two countries in July 2010. Further efforts are being
supported to facilitate signing of mutual customs assistance agreement to improve
customs-to-customs cooperation.

The project also assisted the establishment of the Afghan National Standards Authority
(ANSA) as the standards, metrology and quality control body of Afghanistan through a
Presidential Decree with approved administrative and recurrent budgets. As of September
2009 (SY1387), more than 400 tests were performed. These efforts culminated in
enactment of the National Standards Law in September 2010.

(c)    Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA)

Implementation of ASYCUDA on major border crossing points and ICDs has been a
major highlight of the ECMTF project. A visible improvement has been seen in
efficiency and control on revenue leakages in customs offices where ASYCUDA was
implemented. It was originally planned that, by the end of the project, ASYCUDA would
cover two customs depots, however the project surpassed the expectations and rolled out
ASYCUDA in six inland clearance depots (Kabul, Jalalabad, Herat, Kunduz, Kabul
International Airport, and Nimroz) and on four trade corridors: (1) Torkham-Jalalabad-
Kabul, Islam Qala; (2) -Herat- Kabul; (3) Hairatan-Mazar-e-Sharif-Kabul; (4) and
Towrghundi-Herat-Kabul. The rollout of ASYCUDA at Mazar-e-Sharif was delayed due
to the shifting of the entire Balkh customs to Hairatan where the European Commission
had financed new inland clearance facilities, but it has been accomplished recently.
According to the World Bank and Tariff, Research, and Statistics Unit (TRSU) of ACD,
since March 2009 (SY1387) a total of 146,830 customs declarations were filed across
Afghanistan out of which 79,065 (54 percent) were through ASYCUDA. During the
same period, a total of 302,878 T1s (internal transit permits) were filed through
ASYCUDA, collecting USD 6,057,560 as a T1 fee.

ASYCUDA rollout remains paramount for ACD to stop diversion of illicit trade and
smuggling to non-automated customs stations. It further reduces human interaction,
strengthens controls, and provides ACD management with essential statistics to enable
policy decision-making.

d)     Procurement

Total of 100 sub-projects were implemented in the project’s lifetime. As of June 2010
(SY1388), 67 works were procured through shopping in the value of US$0.9 million; 32
through NCB in the value of US$ 5.4 million, and one through ICB in the value of 6.7
million.

As of June 2010 (SY1388), 3025 items were procured through the method of shopping in
the value of US$4,779,962, and one item through NCB in the value of US$50,832.
                                                  30



Total of 170 consultant services were procured, 47 – internationals, and 123- nationals,
amounting to a total value of US$ 10.7 million.

1.      Potential Environmental and Social Impacts

The majority of environmental and social impacts of the ECMTFP were generally related
to construction and rehabilitation of ACD’s facilities. No acquisition of new land or other
similar assets was required during the project implementation. The most adverse
environmental threat was related to the possible presence of landmines on sites of
construction activities. However, UNOPS applied appropriate environmental codes of
practices. Therefore, no such cases were detected.

Furthermore, pollution of water bodies, increase in air borne particulate matter, excessive
pollution, nuisance to the community from construction camps, increased risk of injuries
for the project labors, increased public risk from failure to conduct adequate safety and
precaution practices, damage to cultural or recreational sites were not identified.

The project had a positive social impact through employment of the local population in
ACD project works. However, it was just a secondary impact not listed among the
project’s primary customs modernization and trade facilitation objectives; therefore local
employment affect was not quantified.

2.      Performance Indicators

Table 1: Measuring ACD’s Performance at the National Level
Performance         Baseline Value    Progress Value*                          End of project
Indicator           Sep. 2003         Sep. 2009 (SY1387)                       target value
                    (SY1381)
Customs Revenue           US$ 50-60 million         US$ 399 (392.02)           US$ 280 million
                                                    million
Declarations per Staff    91                        202 (87.82)                200
Revenue Declaration       US$ 500-600               US$ 1,149 (2,669)          US$ 700
ASYCUDA                   Nil                       735,094 (302,878) T1s      One complete transit
Implementation -                                    70 % transit axis          axis
Transit                                             covered by value
ASYCUDA                   Nil                       55,739 (79,065)            One DPS
Implementation -                                    declarations and 55%       implementation
Electronic                                          (approx.) by value
Declarations                                        covered with 4 DPS
                                                    implementations.
*Figures in brackets are for first 6 months of SY1387 (21 March –September 20, 2009)
                                                    31



Table 2: Measuring Trade and Transit Regime
Performance         Baseline Value      Progress Value*                            End of project
Indicator           Sep. 2003           Sep. 2009 (SY1387)                         target value
                    (SY1381)
Trade Volume                 US$ 2.0 billion/year        US$ 8 billion/year        US$ 5.0 billion/year
                                                         (WB estimate)
                                                         US$ 4.9 billion/year
                                                         (ACD estimate)
Truck Release Time           Kabul ICD: 1080 min         Torkham Border:           Kabul ICD 90 min
                             (overall), 428 min          91 %
                             (customs)                   of trucks cleared in
                             Kabul airport: N/A          fewer than 90 minutes
                             Border Stations: N/A        (including customs
                                                         time- customs time
                                                         not                       Border stations 40
                                                         measured separately)      min (customs)

                                                         Overall customs
                                                         performance
                                                         measurement not
                                                         carried out nationally
                                                         due to security issues.
Logistical                   N/A                         Score = 1.21              Ranking
Performance Index                                        Rank = 150                improved to 130
*Figures in brackets are for first 6 months of SY1387 (21 March –September 20, 2009)

Overall, customs performance and macro indicators show a positive trend when making a
year-by-year comparison from 2002 (SY1380) through 2009 (SY1387) (Table 11). As
estimated by the IMF, real GDP growth in the fiscal year ending March 2010 (SY1388)
was at 15 percent. This is up from 3.4 percent in 2008/09 (SY1386-7). The ACD has
been able to increase the total customs revenue from US$77 million in 2003 (SY1381) to
US$399 million in 2008 (SY1386) which constituted 418 percent increase in customs
revenue in five years.

The real-time transit declaration data available through ASYCUDA on the two major
transit routes—Torkham-Jalalabad and Islam Qala-Herat—shows that there is potential to
collect more taxes, as the real trade flows are underestimated. Total commercial imports
for 2008/09 (SY1386-7) were estimated at US$ 7.8 billion as compared with the
officially declared value of nearly US$ 4.9 billion. Higher imports should translate into
higher customs collection. So, potential exists for the government to further increase tax
collection.

Table 3: Progress Values of Outcome Indicators
Objective             Indicator                End of Project Target                        Achievement
                                               Value                                        (Sep. 2009, SY 1387)
Customs and related           Number of facilities             62 facilities.               Target achieved - all civil
transit infrastructure are    repaired/constructed and                                      works completed.
                                              32


Objective                Indicator                      End of Project Target      Achievement
                                                        Value                      (Sep. 2009, SY 1387)
improved.                functionally improved.
Reform and               Setting up of Trade            Afghan companies           The target stands
modernization of         Association for Afghan         issuing through-bills-of   achieved, AFFCO has
trucking and freight     freight forwarders             ladings.                   been setup with the local
forwarding industries.   (AFFCO).                                                  training consultant
                                                                                   completing training
                                                                                   sessions in Kabul, Herat
                                                                                   and Mazar-e-Sharif.
Improved and reliable    Number of facilities           14 locations.              12 VSAT nodes and 20
telecommunications       connected through                                         radio rooms. Target has
network is established   communication and                                         been surpassed with
to support the           VSAT/VPN and other                                        communication
modernization and        networks (of these, number                                equipment installed on
reform of ACD and        of facilities where no                                    more than planned sites.
the support of trade     mobile telephone exists)
facilitation
ASYCUDA is               Level of ASYCUDA               ASYCUDA covers 2           Operationalization of
functional and fully     development and                main trade axis.           transit system on 4 axis:
used by the customs      implementation.                                           Torkham-Jalalabad-
staff.                                                                             Kabul, Islam Qala-Herat-
                                                                                   Kabul, Hairatan-Mazar-e-
                                                                                   Sharif-Kabul, and
                                                                                   Towrghundi-Herat-Kabul.

                                                                                   Similarly, DPS is
                                                                                   operational at Kabul,
                                                                                   Kabul Airport, Jalalabad
                                                                                   Herat, Nimroz, Kunduz
                                                                                   ICDs.
                         Quality and safety of          Inspection mechanism is    Target achieved with
                         traded/imported/exported       in place                   ANSA carrying out
                         goods.                                                    regular inspections.
An effective             Establishment of ANSA.         ANSA supported by          ANSA has been
mechanism for                                           Afghan Standards and       established and is now
standards, metrology,                                   Metrology Law.             carrying out regular
and quality control is                                                             testing of POL products.
established.                                                                       More than 400 tests
                                                                                   performed till date.
                                                                                   National Standards Law
                                                                                   enacted.
                         Establishment of AFPRO         AFPRO functional.          Target achieved with
Trade Facilitation       (the public-private national                              AFPRO now functional.
Initiative launched to   trade facilitation
promote and facilitate   committee).
regional and bilateral   Number of international        Pakistan – Afghanistan     Participation of the
trade of goods and       trade and transit treaties     Transit Trade Agreement.   Afghan delegation in an
services.                initiated negotiations.                                   intermediate round of
                                                                                   negotiations on customs
                                                33


Objective                  Indicator                     End of Project Target         Achievement
                                                         Value                         (Sep. 2009, SY 1387)
                                                                                       and private sector in
                                                                                       Pakistan leading to the
                                                                                       6th round of negotiations
                                                                                       of the Joint Working
                                                                                       Group on APTTA.
                                                                                       APTTA signed in July
                                                                                       2010.
                           Membership with TIR           Membership with TIR           Translation of the TIR
                           reactivated.                  reactivated.                  Handbook is underway.
Assistance towards                                       The Afghanistan WTO           No further progress since
accession to WTO.                                        Memorandum of Foreign         the last reporting period
                                                         Trade Regime prepared         in July 2009.
                                                         and agreed by Cabinet.
Source: The World Bank. (April 21, 2010). Emergency Project Paper for a Second Emergency Customs
Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project. Report No: 53955-AF, p.27.

3.      Project Results Summary

To meet its customs infrastructure development, ASYCUDA roll-out, SMTQ
development, trade facilitation, and project management objectives, the project has
delivered the following outputs:

Item                 Quantity                                                             Total Value**
Works                100 sub-projects completed                                           US$13 million
                     62 facilities constructed
Goods                3026 items of goods and equipment procured                           US$ 5 million
Consultants          170 consultant services procured to meet ASYCUDA roll-out,           US$ 12 million
                     SMTQ development, trade facilitation, and project management
                     objectives
Operating Costs      Including allowances to ACD staff, rental, fuel, administrative      US$ 10 million
                     and allocable charges, etc.
** rounded values

Donor Coordination

ACD has established the Customs Reform Unit (CURE), funded by the World Bank
under ECMTFP, to coordinate the overall reform program in ACD, harmonize various
activities of donors based on each donor’s comparative strength, and reduce overlap.
ACD through CURE also supports the Informal Customs Network (ICN) to unify policy
approaches to customs reforms. As assessed by the World Bank, since the establishment
of ICN, donor coordination within the sector has improved significantly.

Status Reports

Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were submitted by UNOPS and the
Grant Management Unit (GMU) to IDA showing: (1) sources and uses of funds by
                                           34

disbursement category and project component; (2) status of procurement activities; and
(3) physical progress. These FMRs were submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of
the quarter. The annual project financial statement to IDA included a summary of funds
received (showing funds received from all sources), a summary of expenditures shown
under the main project components/activities, and by main categories of expenditures.

Audits

The accounts of the project were audited by the Auditor General, with support from the
Audit Agent, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The audit of the project
accounts included an assessment of the: (a) adequacy of the accounting and internal
control systems; (b) ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions; and (c)
eligibility of incurred expenditures for IDA financing. The audited annual project
financial statements were submitted within six months of the close of fiscal year (March
21 – March 20). All agencies involved in implementation and maintenance of the records
of expenditures were required to retain these as per the IDA records retention policy.

1.       Risks

During the project pre-assessment, the World Bank team had identified three types of
risks: security, outcome, and implementation risks.

Two main security risks that (1) insecurity would prevent the construction of facilities
and implementation of the project; and (2) assets would be destroyed once provided, did
not materialize.

There were four main outcome-related risks identified: (1) increased smuggling and loss
of revenue; (2) resistance by the major vested interests at the provincial level; (3)
resistance by Afghan truckers to international transit; and (4) corruption within the
customs service. However, improved customs facilities and ASYCUDA rollout increased
compliance and reduced unsolicited human influence on the process. Truckers’ reaction
could not be assessed because work on shifting to international transit was not completed
in the ECMTF project cycle. Resistance from provincial authorities still remains a risk
and work continues with GOIRA in the anti-corruption framework.

Among implementation risks, the donor coordination problem was resolved through an
Informal Customs Network (ICN). In addition, at the end of the project, a Financial
Management Manual was developed based on lessons learnt to correct drawbacks in the
financial management.

2.       Challenges

a)       Illicit Trade

Afghanistan has about 32 border crossing points with its neighboring countries. Out of
these, 18 locations have customs axis, and only four are equipped with ASYCUDA
                                            35

where trade is recorded electronically. Lack of control on other border crossing points
enables illicit trade remain unnoticed and unpunished. Illegal activities include smuggling
of drugs, arms and ammunitions; and re-export of goods to neighboring countries through
unofficial channels. The opium economy still represents almost half of the non-opium
GDP of Afghanistan producing 90 percent of the world’s opium supply. The UNODC
estimated the potential export value of the 2008 (SY1386) opium production in
Afghanistan at US$ 3.4 billion. Powerful criminal networks, which stand behind the
opium trade, make drug-related corruption one of the major challenges for the revenue
collection agencies to overcome.

b)     Data Sources

As estimated, 80 to 90 percent of economic activities are concentrated in the informal
sector and the quality of officially reported Afghanistan trade data remains very poor.
Data on the volume of trade varies both in volume and value across sources.

1.     Lessons Learnt

a)     Donor Coordination

Despite numerous attempts by ACD, from 2003 (SY1381) through till the middle of 2008
(SY1386), there was no real donor coordination mechanism in place. This negatively
influenced the customs reform. For example, ASYCUDA rollout was delayed by almost
three years due to a lack of understanding among various donors on the overall scope of
ASYCUDA implementation. In the follow-up of this issue, the Informal Customs
Network (ICN) was created in September 2008 to harmonize various activities of donors
based on each donor’s comparative strength, and to reduce overlap.

b)     Project Design Considerations

The ECMTFP has proved that customs reforms could be real in Afghanistan. ASYCUDA
rollout and infrastructure improvement led to substantial revenue gains and better control
environment. Based on the ECMTFP performance, the World Bank incorporated the
following elements in the SCRTF project design: (1) automation needs to be rolled out to
additional customs offices to minimize opportunities for corruption and to ensure a
consistent approach to clearance; (2) governance and accountability issues need to be
addressed in a more strategic way looking also at improving the working conditions of
customs officers, improvements in the status of customs and better incentives schemes;
and (3) collaborative border management has to be implemented within the framework of
the ICN.

c)     Drawbacks in Financial Management

According to the World Bank assessment, the “main weakness in this project was the
ability to attract suitably qualified and experienced counterpart staff, especially for
financial managementi.? Most mistakes spotted by auditors resulted from human error or
                                            36

lack of guidance. According to the 2008 (SY1386) KPMG reviewii, it happened so that
expenditures were charged to incorrect account codes, amounts were paid twice to
vendors and a single payment has been recorded twice, negative variances appeared in
reports, and other. However, all key issues raised by audit reports have been resolved
satisfactorily by UNOPS.

d)     Records Maintenance

During seven years, the ECMTF project has generated hundreds of thousands of paper
documentation. The implementing partner – UNOPS –maintained paper archives.
However, these archives present an opportunity for improvement. Basic library
classification system is necessary with an electronic back-up. This would help project
staff and outside reviewers to go through piles of paper materials in a more efficient way.
For example, at present, it is difficult to verify employment of consultants of 2004-6
(SY1982-4) years because their contracts are not accessible. The project primarily relies
on the institutional memory of the current staff. Organization of records using modern
information management tools would enable better summation of work, better reporting,
and better presentation of documented evidence.
                                    37


Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(not applicable)
                                            38


Annex 9. Financial Management Input

After three decades of conflict, the GoA is facing a daunting challenge to rebuild its
public administration to effectively manage and utilize public resources, including the
large inflow of development aid. Since the Bank Group’s re-engagement in Afghanistan,
one of the priority areas of the Bank's assistance strategy to Afghanistan has been
providing support for building the capacity of the state and its accountability to its
citizens for provision of basic services. The Bank has played an instrumental role in
helping the Government establish the basic legal framework underlying the public
financial management (PFM) and public procurement systems. Significant progress has
been made in establishing a functioning public financial management system under the
direction of the Ministry of Finance (MoF). Project accounting, payments, financial
statements and responsibility for submission of audited financial statements are
centralized within the Ministry of Finance (MoF). The government-wide PFM systems,
which are used for all IDA and ARTF projects, were assessed with the Public
Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Public Financial Management
performance measurement framework in 2005 and at the end of 2007, and found to be
better than the average of low-income countries, particularly on the Accounting,
Recording and Reporting dimensions.

Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until closure
were maintained by UNOPS. Records of the projects receipts were also maintained at
MoF, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU). All underlying supporting documents for the
expenditures were maintained by UNOPS. UNOPS had good FM capacity to facilitate
project disbursements. Record keeping was satisfactory.

The funds flow arrangement was satisfactory. All payments to UNOPS were centrally
controlled by MoF, and UNOPS had adequate internal controls for project disbursements.
An assessment of the process reveals that this has been managed appropriately from
project inception to closing.

Financial reporting was poor initially: monthly and quarterly financial reports – including
the mandatory financial monitoring reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank – were
not prepared regularly and did not contain all required information. However, financial
reporting improved considerably over time. Annual audited financial statements were
submitted regularly, although not within the time stipulated in the Financing Agreement
except for solar year 1388. The Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan issued qualified
except for opinions for the solar years 1383 to 1387, however for SY1388 the opinion
was unqualified (clean). The SY1388 audit report and management letter were received
on Sep 16, 2010, before the due date of Sep 22, 2010. There were no key issues raised in
the audit report, all the audit observations were responded to satisfactorily during the
audit by UNOPS/MoF and no further response is required from the client.

A financial management review was done in February 2011 that included transaction
review of project expenditures up to end of the closing date and there were no key issues
noted with respect to this project.
                                         39



Given that the financial management systems in place were weak when the project
became effective, one could conclude that FM capacity has been built steadily over the
life of the project.
                                         40


Annex 10. Supporting Documents

1.    “Technical Annex for Proposed Credit of SDR 21.6 million to Transitional
      Islamic State of Afghanistan for an Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade
      Facilitation Project?, World Bank, November 24, 2003.

2.    “Development Credit Agreement (Emergency Customs Modernization and Trade
      Facilitation Project) between Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan and IDA?,
      January 20, 2004.

3.    “Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing in the Amount of SDR 4.6
      million to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the Emergency Customs
      Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project?, World Bank, April 28, 2009.

4.    “Financing Agreement (Additional Financing for the Emergency Customs
      Modernization and Trade Facilitation Project and Amendment to the
      Development Credit Agreement) between Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and
      IDA?, June 28, 2009.

5.    “Emergency Project Paper on a Proposed Grant in the Amount of SDR 33.3
      million to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for a Second Customs Reform and
      Trade Facilitation Project?, World Bank, April 21, 2010.

6.    Supervision missions’ aide-memoires, back-to-office reports and Implementation
      Status and Results reports.

7.    Hedayatullah Watanyar, “Transit Transport in Afghanistan?, statement made to
      Expert Meeting on ‘Regional Cooperation in Transit Transport: Solutions for
      Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries’, UNCTAD, 27-28 September
      2007.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 38625

This map was produced by the Map Design
Unit of The World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and any other
information shown on this map do not imply,
on the part of The World Bank Group, any

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAJIKISTAN
judgment on the legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        DUSHANBE
                                                                                                                                                 UZBEKISTAN
boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EMERGENCY CUSTOMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Darwaz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MODERNIZATION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TRADE FACILITATION
                                                 TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                          Shighnan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT
                                                                                                                         Aqina                                                                                         Aikhanum                            Khorough                                     (ECMTFP)
                                                                                                                                                                Hairatan        Sher Khan                                                       Badakhshan                                                 ECMTFP:
                                                                                                     Andkhoi            JAWZJAN                      BALKH
                                                                                                                                                                                   Bandar                           TAKHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                  KUNDUZ                                                                                                   EQUIPEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Taloqan
                                                                                                                            Shiberghan                                                   Kunduz                                                              Ishkashim                                     TA
                                                                                                                                              Mazar-e-Sharif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BADAKHSHAN                                                        INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                 Sar-e-Pul                            Aybak                                                                                                                                ASYCUDA
                                                                                                    FARYAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dahan-e-Ghory                                                                                           SCRTFP:
                                                                                                      Maymana                                                   SAMANGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      BAGHLAN                                                                                              ASYCUDA
                                                                                                                                  SARI                                                                                                                                                                     INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                              Kabul Custom                              PANJSHER
                                                                                                                                  PUL                                                                                                                    Poruns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rukha                                                Barikot                         TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NURISTAN
                                                                                     BADGHIS                                                                                  Kabul Airport       PARWAN
                                           Towraghondi                                                                                                    BAMYAN                                   Charikar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mahmud-e-Raki                        KUNAR              Nawapass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EQUIPMENT

                                                                        Qala-e-Naw                                                                                                                                    KAPISA                   Asad Abad                                                   C2C
                                                                                                                                                                Bamyan           Kabul HQ                                       LAGHMAN
                    Islam Qala                                                                                                                                                                        KABUL                             Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Shigel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EIS
                                                                                                                 Chaghcharan                                                                               KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                           WARDAK           Nerkh                               Jalalabad     NANGARHAR
                                                          Herat                                      GHOR                                                                                                                                        Torkham
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REGIONAL CUSTOMS’
    Qalate Nazar                                                                                                                                                                                       LOGAR                                                                                           HOUSES
                              HIRAT                                                                                                                                                                        Pul-e- Joji Arub
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Alam                                Gusha Lalpur (2 sites)                                  FORMAL BORDER CROSSING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Patan                                                                          POINTS
                                                                                                                                       Nili                                                                   PAKTYA                       Shellman Borbaba (2 sites)                 ISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                                               Ghazni               Gardez                              Jawid Check Point                                              INFORMAL BORDER CROSSING
                                                                                                                                 DAYKUNDI                                                                                                                                                              POINTS
                                                                                                                                                                  GHAZNI                                                        Khost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ghulam Khan
      Mile 73                                                                                                                                                                                                       KHOST
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sharan                                                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS
        Mile 75
                                                                       FARAH                                                     URUZGAN                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                Tirin Kot                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
             Mile 76
                                                      Farah                                                                                             ZABUL                            PAKTIKA                                                                                                       REGIONAL HIGHWAYS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCIAL ROADS
               Abu Naser Rarahi                                                                                                                        Zabul                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                                                 Kandahar                                                                                                                               P A K I S T A N

  ISLAMIC                         Nimroz
                                                              NIMROZ                 HILMAND                                   Spin Boldak
 REPUBLIC                                        Zaranj                                                                                       Vesh
                                                                                                                KANDAHAR
 OF IRAN
                                Crooki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AFGHANISTAN


                                       Shand


                                                                                                                                                                                              0               75              150 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                                                                              0                       75                      150 Miles


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAY 2010
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
