                                          “CONFORMED COPY”



                                       CREDIT NUMBER 5021-HN




  Financing Agreement
  (First Programmatic Reducing Vulnerabilities for
       Growth Development Policy Financing)


                      between


           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS


                        and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated December 7, 2011
                            FINANCING AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated December 7, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fifty
        five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,100,000)
        (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Interest Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to one and a quarter percent (1.25%) per annum.

2.06.   The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.

2.07.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08.   The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
        event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
        period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to
        the Recipient.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
        carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
        macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen months (18) after the Association’s
        approval of the Credit which expire on March 6, 2012.




                                           -2-
               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister (Secretario) of SEFIN.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
        Dirección General de Crédito Público
        Avenida Cervantes, Barrio El Jazmín
        Edificio SEFIN
        Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
        Honduras, C.A

        Facsimile: (504) 238-2309

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                    Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)               1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.

        AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                                REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS


                                By /s/ Marlon Tabora
                                                          Authorized Representative



                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo
                                                         Authorized Representative




                                           -3-
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

1.      To improve taxpayer compliance, the Recipient has: (i) approved a plan to
        strengthen the large taxpayer unit within DEI, as evidenced by Agreement DEI
        SG 118-2011, dated May 16, 2011, and published in the Recipient’s Official
        Gazette on October 25, 2011; and (ii) approved a registry of large taxpayers, as
        evidenced by Agreement DEI SG 043-2011, dated March 18, 2011, and
        published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette on June 25, 2011.

2.      (a)     To reduce the actuarial deficits of the public pension systems, the
                Recipient has: (i) submitted to Congress, for approval thereof, a bill of
                law to reform INPREMA’s pension system, as evidenced by
                acknowledgement (Constancia) signed by the first secretary of the
                Congress, dated November 28, 2011; and (ii) submitted to Congress, for
                approval thereof, a bill of law to reform INJUPEMP’s pension system, as
                evidenced by acknowledgement (Constancia) signed by the first
                secretary of the Congress, dated April 26, 2011.

        (b)     To regularize the pension regime for the PROHECO teachers, the
                Recipient has formalized the incorporation of the PROHECO teachers to
                the INPREMA pension system as of the date each said teacher was
                appointed, as evidenced by: (i) agreement signed among SEFIN, SE and
                INPREMA (Convenio de Afiliación), dated October 27, 2011; and (ii)
                agreement signed between SEFIN and INPREMA to cancel the
                Recipient’s debt to INPREMA with respect to teachers’ and employers’
                contributions (Convenio de Cancelación de Deuda), dated October 27,
                2011.

        (c)     To strengthen the financial situation of IHSS, the Recipient has increased
                the maximum salary subject to contribution to IHSS, as evidenced by
                Resolution SOJD No. 02-29-03-2011, and published in the Official
                Gazette on June 17, 2011.

3.      (a)     To ensure equity of salary increases for all public servants, the Recipient
                has submitted to Congress, for approval thereof, a bill of law to establish
                a uniform pay adjustment methodology for all said public servants, as
                evidenced by acknowledgement (Constancia) signed by the first
                secretary of the Congress, dated October 28, 2011.




                                           -4-
        (b)     To strengthen the monitoring of the teacher’s payroll, the Recipient has:

                (i)       Established a single database (SIARH-SIAFI) which accounts
                          for over 80 percent of the Recipient’s public servants and
                          includes all teachers, as evidenced by a letter from the Minister
                          of SEFIN, dated October 27, 2011;

                (ii)      created a payroll management and control unit within SEFIN, as
                          evidenced by Executive Decree PCM-006-2011, dated February
                          8, 2011, and published in the Official Gazette on March 22,
                          2011; and

                (iii)     approved a consolidated set of norms regulating human resource
                          management processes in the education sector          (Normas
                          Unificadas Aplicables a la Gestión de Recursos Humanos
                          Docentes), as evidenced by Executive Agreement No 032-2011,
                          date October 25, 2011, and published in the Official Gazette on
                          October 25, 2011.

4.      To support the prevention of crime and violence and achieve the Recipient's
        development and poverty reduction objectives, the Recipient has: (a) adopted a
        violence prevention strategy of proposed programs focused on: youth at risk,
        alternative conflict resolution, road safety, and citizenship building, as evidenced
        by Decree No. PCM 057-2011, dated September 6, 2011, published in the
        Official Gazette on October 1, 2011; and (b) created the National Citizen
        Security Council, as evidenced by Decree No. 003-2011, dated October 18, 2011,
        published in the Official Gazette on October 20, 2011.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
        Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in
        the table below:

                                                  Amount of the Financing Allocated
                      Allocations                       (expressed in SDR)

         Single Withdrawal Tranche                           55,100,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                        55,100,000




                                            -5-
C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Association is satisfied with: (a) the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
     and (b) with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
     agree:

     1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
             Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
             to the Association; and

     2.      the Recipient shall: (a) ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
             Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
             Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
             Association; and (b) provide the Association with a written confirmation
             within two weeks of each such deposit.

E.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

     1.     have the account designated by the Recipient pursuant to Section D.1 of
            this Section audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
            Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
            acceptable to the Association;

     2.      furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later
             than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such
             audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in
             such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and

     3.      furnish to the Association such other information concerning the account
             and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 15, 2012.




                                        -6-
                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

                                                     Principal Amount of the Credit
              Date Payment Due                                  repayable
                                                      (expressed as a percentage)*

On each February 1 and August 1:
commencing February 1, 2017 to and including                      1.65%
August 1, 2026
commencing February 1, 2027 to and including                      3.35%
August 1, 2036


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.




                                         -7-
                                     APPENDIX


Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Congress” means Congreso Nacional, the Recipient’s legislative branch.

2.      “DEI” means Dirección Ejecutiva de Ingresos, the Recipient’s income executive
        agency.

3.      “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

                        Group            Sub-group             Description of Item
                        112                                    Alcoholic beverages
                        121                                    Tobacco, un-
                                                               manufactured, tobacco
                                                               refuse
                        122                                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                                               (whether or not containing
                                                               tobacco substitutes)
                        525                                    Radioactive and associated
                                                               materials
                        667                                    Pearls, precious and
                                                               semiprecious stones,
                                                               unworked or worked
                        718              718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                               thereof; fuel elements
                                                               (cartridges), non-
                                                               irradiated, for nuclear
                                                               reactors
                        728              728.43                Tobacco processing
                                                               machinery




                                          -8-
                     897              897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                            platinum group metals
                                                            (except watches and watch
                                                            cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                            silversmiths’ wares
                                                            (including set gems)
                     971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                            (excluding gold ores and
                                                            concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
            agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
            Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
            action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
            occur.

4.   “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
     General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

5.   “IHSS” means Instituto Hondureño de Seguridad Social, the Recipient’s social
     security institute.

6.   “INJUPEMP” means Instituto Nacional de Jubilación y Pensiones de los
     Empleados Públicos, the Recipient´s civil servant’s pension institute.

7.   “INPREMA” means Instituto Nacional de Previsión del Magisterio, the
     Recipient’s national institute for teachers’ pensions.

8.   “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
     referred to in the letter dated October 28, 2011 from the Recipient to the
     Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the




                                       -9-
        Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
        Program during its execution.

9.      “PROHECO” means Programa Hondureño de Educación Comunitaria, the
        Recipient’s community-based education program of the SE created pursuant to
        the Recipient’s Executive Decree No. 006-99 dated February 17, 1999.

10.     “SE” means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación, the Recipient’s
        Ministry of Education.

11.     “SEFIN” means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas, the
        Recipient’s Ministry of Finance.

12.     “SIARH-SIAFI” means Sistema Integrado de Administración de Recursos
        Humanos, the Recipient’s integrated human resources management system.

13.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      “Section 3.02. Service Charge and Interest Charge

        (a)     Service Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association a service charge on
                the Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
                Agreement. The Service Charge shall accrue from the respective dates
                on which amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable
                semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. Service Charges shall be
                computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.

        (b)     Interest Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association interest on the
                Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
                Agreement. Interest shall accrue from the respective dates on which
                amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-annually
                in arrears on each Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis




                                          -10-
            of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.”

4.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
     Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.”

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.”

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.”




                                      -11-
(b)   The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the
      Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

(c)   The term “Financing Payment” is modified by inserting the words “the
      Interest Charge” between the words “the Service Charge” and “the
      Commitment Charge”.

(d)   A new term called “Interest Charge” is added to read as follows:

      “‘Interest Charge’ means the interest charge specified in the Financing
      Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.02(b).”

(e)   The term “Payment Date” is modified by inserting the words “Interest
      Charges” between the words “Service Charges” and “Commitment
      Charges”.

(f)   The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
      modified to read as follows:

      “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
      support of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project”
      throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
      “Program”.

(g)   The term “Service Charge” is modified by replacing the reference to
      Section 3.02 with Section 3.02 (a).




                                -12-
