Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2924-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE A)ND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
FOURTH LIVESTOCK PROJECT
December 3, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods (as of January 1, 1981)
Lei 15.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.07
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1.
Beginning on January 1, 1981, a trading rate of lei 15 per US$1 will be used
to convert the prices of all traded goods.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI                      -        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
(Banca pentru Agricultura si Industrie
Alimentara)
CAP                       -        Agricultural Production Cooperative
(Cooperative Farm)
ERR                       -        Economic Rate of Return
ICA                       -        Inter-Cooperative Association
IAS                       -        State Agricultural Enterprise
(State Farm)
MAFI                      -        Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA                       -        Agricultural Mechanization Stations
(State Mechanization Units)
UAC                       -       Unified Agro-Industrial Councils



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
LIVESTOCK IV (CATTLE) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:                Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:            State farms, Cooperatives, Food processing
enterprises, and individual producers.
Loan Amount:              US$80 million
Terms:                    Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period, through semi-annual installments. Interest
at 9.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:          Relending to State enterprises at 2 percent per annum
during construction and 4 percent after
construction. Relending to cooperatives and
individual producers at 3 percent per annum. State
enterprises subloan maturities would be up to 10
years including up to 3 years grace, and cooperative
subloan maturities would be up to 16 years including
up to 3 years grace. Individual producer subloans
would be for 5 years. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:      The project would consist of selected investments
undertaken between mid 1981 and mid 1984 as part of
Romanian Five Year Plan for 1981-1985 for milk and
beef production. The project would comprise about 60
percent of the total planned investment over the
three year period, and include; 92 new and 32
modernized dairy farms, 17 new specialized breeding
heifer production farms, 19 new beef fattening units,
109 improved pasture units, milk and beef processing
and storage facilities, on-farm production of milk,
meat and breeding animals by individual producers,
and technical services and research. The project
would address the unsatisfied domestic demand for
milk and beef products and generate additional
foreign exchange earnings. Substantial production
efficiency improvement is expected through technical
innovations and institutional improvements under the
project. At full development, incremental project
production would reach about 3.8 million hectolitre
(hl) of milk, 40 thousand tons of carcass beef and 33
thousand breeding heifers. Additionally, a
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
substantial amount of fertilizer would be produced from the incremental
farmyard manure. The project would reach full development in 1985-1987, and
faces no greater risks than can normally be expected with operations of this
type.
Cost Estimates:                                     Foreign
Local        Exchange        Total
------------  Million -----------
Dairy Farms                            107.5          44.3          151.8
Heifer Rearing Farms                     9.2           5.2           14.4
Dairy Farm Modernization                 9.6           6.0           15.6
Beef Fattening Farms                    20.4           7.6           27.9
Meat and Milk Processing
and Storage                           18.0           7.7           25.7
Pasture Improvement                     27.7           9.0           36.7
Credit to Individual
Producers                             18.1           7.7           25.8
Technical Services and
Research                               3.2           3.0            6.3
Incremental Working
Capital                               44.6          14.6           59.2
Base Cost                              258.3         105.1          363.4
Physical Contingencies                   7.7           3.3           11.0
Price Contingencies                      8.0          29.8           37.8
Total Project Cost                     274.0         138.2          412.21/
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign         Total
----------US$ Million ----------
Bank for Agriculture and Food
Industry (BAFI) and Cofinanciers    164.9          58.2             223.1
Sub-borrowers                         109.1          -              109.1
TBRD                                     -          80 0             80.0
Total                            274.0       138.2            412.2
Estimated                                            $ Million
Disbursement:                FY       1982        1983       1984       1985
Annual                  13.3        25.9        27.5      13.3
Cumulative              13.3        39.2       66.7       80.0
Economic Rate of Return:  About 22 percent on 88 percent of the total costs
for which benefits have been quantified.
Appraisal Report:       No. 3139a-RO,  Date: November 24,.1980
EMENA Projects Department
1/ Including tax and duties of $1.8 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA
FOR A FOURTH LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$80 million to help finance a
Fourth Livestock Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum. Cofinancing of up to
US$100 million is being sought, all from commercial lending institutions.
PART I. THE ECONOMY1/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) discussing the New Economic Measures was introduced
in January 1979. The CEM was circulated to Executive Directors on August 20,
1980 (Report No. 2757-RO). Country social and economic data are given in
Annex 1.
A. Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.        Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to industrialize a primarily agrarian economy. The main
features of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy had
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by central party and government authorities.
4.        As a result, Romania's economic development since 1950 has been
impressive, characterized by a rapid economic growth and considerable
structural change. According to official statistics, national income has
grown in real terms at an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita
GNP in 1978 is estimated to have been US$1,750, according to the Bank Atlas
methodology.  Since 1950, investment has grown at an average annual rate of 13
percent, as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP has risen,
averaging about 33 percent in the 1976-80 plan period. Industry, which has
grown at more than 13 percent per annum over the past decade, has been the
driving force of economic growth, receiving around 50 percent of investment,
most of which has been allocated to the capital goods industry. As a result,
industry has become the leading sector, accounting in 1978 for about 50
percent of GDP and for 33 percent of the labor force, compared with agri-
culture's 14 percent share of GDP and 33 percent of the labor force. With the
transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the population has become
1/ This Part is identical to that contained in the President's Reports for
a Fourth Power Project and a Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation (BBSP)
Project which have been circulated to the Executive Directors for their
consideration on December 23, 1980.



- 2 -
increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have increased substantially,
partly because of the growth of personal incomes and partly because of
provision through the state budget of expanded and improved education,
medical services, housing and social expenditures of other kinds.
Furthermore, Romania's integration into the world economy has increased, as
the level of trade has grown and its composition altered.
B. Recent Economic Developments
5.        During the first four years of the present Plan period (1976-80),
the expansion of the Romanian economy has slowed down perceptibly. The
average annual rate of national income growth of 8.4 percent was below the
planned growth rate of 11 percent, and growth has been decelerating, falling
annually from 10.5 percent in 1976 to 6.2 percent in 1979. These changes
reflect the emergence of a number of internal and external constraints,
notably the pace at which improvements in productivity and efficiency can be
attained; the ability of the economy to bring new capacity into operation as
planned; a serious deterioration in the terms of trade; and trade
restrictions in important export markets.
6.        Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.
However, the growth of industrial production also slowed down from an
average of 12 percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 9.0 percent in 1978
and 8.1 percent in 1979. As in the past, the growth of capital goods
exceeded that of consumer goods and the fastest growing subsectors were
metallurgy, machine-building, chemicals and construction materials.
Agricultural production grew at a respectable average rate of 6.3 percent
between 1976 and 1979, displaying however, large annual variations due to
changing weather conditions.
7.        As elsewhere, energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian
economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an emergency
decree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing cuts
and stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps
were followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve
domestic oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and
hydropower resources. Although small increases in domestic oil production
were originally planned in the present plan period, production has in fact
fallen while natural gas production has stabilized. Coal production
increased only 8 percent in the first three years of the plan, but jumped by
12 percent in 1979 and strenuous efforts are being made to expand it
further. In spite of the campaign to restrain the growth of energy
consumption, the difficulties in bringing new coal mines into operation on
schedule has resulted in a tripling of oil imports between 1975 and 1979.The
comprehensive directives for the preparation of the energy development
program for the period 1980-2000, published in July 1979, is designed to
make Romania self-sufficient in energy by 1990, through further development
of coal and hydropower resources, through the rapid introduction of nuclear
power and through development of non-conventional renewable energy sources.
This may be optimistic, given the rapid pace of coal and nuclear power
development required to meet the target, but the vigorous adjustment of



- 3 -
policies and priorities by Romania to the changed energy situation is
expected to result in striking changes in the pattern of energy production
by 1990, and further improvements in the efficiency of energy use by
consumer.
8.        Between 1976 and 1979 investment fell about 6 percent short of
planned levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the
planned annual growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be
met, partly because of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of
earthquake damage. Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 13 percent a
year--in itself a very respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment
does not reflect difficulties in mobilizing sufficient financial resources,
but a number of supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints
of design institutes, shortfalls in the production of construction
materials, capacity constraints in the construction sector, production
shortfalls for some domestic equipment and more restrictive foreign exchange
allocations for imported capital goods.
9.        Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied
the growth and structural change of production. The total labor force
increased by only 0.5 percent per year between 1976 and 1979, but large
intersectoral shifts in the labor force continued. Between 1976 and 1979,
the agricultural labor force fell from 38 percent to 33 percent of the
total. The outflow from agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the
needs of non-agriculture sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to
compensate for the loss through mechanization, appears to be leading to some
seasonal labor shortages; recourse has been necessary to students and other
groups to meet short term labor needs. The Government recognizes that the
transfer of labor has to slow down to some degree, to avoid adverse effects
on agriculture output, and is thus giving even greater emphasis to increases
in labor productivity. Between 1976 and 1979, labor productivity in
industry rose by 7.9 percent per annum, about one and a half percent more
than was achieved between 1971 and 1975. In agriculture, labour
productivity rose by 10 percent per annum.
C. New Economic Measures
10.       The slow-down of growth during the current plan period reflects to
some extent the increasing maturity and complexity of the economy and the
difficulties of moving from a development strategy emphasizing growth
through increases in capacity to growth from using existing capacity more
efficiently. As part of its efforts to improve productivity and efficiency,
the Government introduced in January 1979 a number of changes in the
planning and management system, commonly referred to as the "New Economic
Measures".  Their main purpose is to increase the responsibility of
enterprises for implementing plan targets by extending the scope of
enterprise autonomy and by sharpening the impact of financial rewards for
success and financial penalties for failure.
11.       The centerpiece of the New Economic Measures is the replacement of
gross production by net production as the major performance indicator
complemented by physical output targets. The change from gross to net
production is to heighten the inducement for reducing inputs. To reinforce
concerns about net production at the enterprise level, a new system of



- 4 -
enterprise revenue and expenditure budgeting has been introduced which
combines evaluation criteria, computation of income bonuses and penalties
for over and under-fulfillment of net production targets, and the tax
assessment of enterprises. The second major element of the New Measures is
the modification of the planning system. The changes introduced have two
components; first, the greater involvement of enterprises in the resolution
of inconsistencies and constraints in the planning process. Second, the
measures increase the use of purchasing and delivery contracts. Whereas, in
the past enterprises could make annual contracts only after the finalization
of the plan, they are now able to make multi-year contracts which will form
the basis for the first draft of the annual plan. Both of these changes are
intended to bring greater reality to plans.
12.       The New Measures also involve important changes in financial flows
between the enterprises and the state budget. In the past, enterprises
retained very little of their profits, and transferred most, in the form of
taxes and other payments to the state budget. In future, enterprises will
retain a greater share of profits. The major payment to the budget will be
a "prelevation tax", which is calculated on the value of net production and
paid from profits, but the enterprise will retain a greater part of its
profits for distribution between funds for investment, working capital,
housing, socio-cultural activities and profit-sharing fund. The New
Measures, however, are explicitly not intended as a step towards
"decentralization".  Central planning remains the foundation of the system
and will not be relegated merely to determining major macro-economic ratios
and setting price or policy parameters, on the basis of which enterprises
would autonomously prepare their own output plans. The New Measures are, in
fact, a conservative attempt to strike a balance between extended enterprise
autonomy dictated by the growing complexity of the economy on the one hand
and a firm belief in centralized planning and control as the means of
obtaining high growth rates and structural change on the other.
D. External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
13.       In foreign trade, developments have in the current plan period
been substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those
planned. The five-year plan envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum
for imports and 18 percent for exports in real terms aiming at a trade
surplus which would allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt.
Between 1976 and 1979, in fact, imports increased at an annual average rate
of 16.4 percent and exports of 13.1 percent in current prices. This
resulted in a sharply growing trade deficit which in 1979 reached $1.3
billion, virtually all of it in the convertible currency area. On the
import side, the deteriorating trade balance reflects rapidly rising
international prices, especially for petroleum. Export growth has been
unable to keep pace with import requirements, partly because of less
favorable price movements in Romania's principal export markets. The
insufficient growth of exports is also explained by the vulnerability of
Romanian exports to import demand fluctuations and import policies of the
receiving countries, and to difficulties in meeting design and quality
standards and establishing marketing policies essential to extend the
foothold in highly competitive product markets.



- 5 -
14.       The large trade gap together with rising interest payment has led
to a current account deficit of US$1.7 billion by 1979. The deficit has been
financed through increased capital inflows, with total medium and long-term
debts rising from US$2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$5.6 billion at the end
of 1979. Most of the inflows have been suppliers' credits and eurocurrency
borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost US$1.1 billion on the eurocurrency
market since 1975, and has been able to lengthen maturities and reduce the
spread over LIBOR considerably during the period. The scale of term
borrowing available to Romania has not been sufficient, however, to finance
the current account deficit fully and the Government had to resort to
substantial short-term borrowing between 1977 and 1979. The net inflow on
short-term debt was particularly large in 1979, about US$1 billion, and by
the end of 1979, outstanding short-term debt had increased to US$1.8 billion.
E. Development Prospects
15.       In November 1979 the Twelfth Congress of the Romanian Communist
Party approved the Directives for the preparation of the new five-year plan
1981-85. Although they suggest the continuation in broad terms of the
present development strategy, they project lower growth rates than envisaged
in earlier drafts of the Directives and than those achieved during the
present plan period. However, one major change is the planned reduction of
the share of national income allocated to investment. The share of
investment in GNP is projected to decline to around 30 percent, compared
with 33 percent during the current plan period, and the growth rate of
investment is planned to be only around 6 percent compared with 13 percent
achieved in the first four years of the current plan period. These changes
indicate government recognition that a major issue underlying the
development path of the economy in the 1980s is the allocation of resources
between consumption and investment. In our view, this planned slowdown of
growth momentum is commendable for three particular reasons. First, there
is a need to allow Romanian consumers, who compare their economic position
increasingly with that in Western European economies, to share more fully in
the fruits of economic growth than the high investment levels of the past
have permitted. Second, due to the growing complexity of the economy, its
rate of growth is increasingly influenced not only by the rate of investment
but also by improvement of productivity and efficiency, and, as is now
widely recognized within COMECON countries--this cannot be accomplished
without tangible incentives translating into higher consumption. And third,
as the more recent empirical evidence suggests, the Romanian growth path is
approaching the margin of absorptive capacity. It remains to be seen
whether the consumer goods industries have the capacity to increase
production and to improve their output mix sufficiently, and whether the
investment goods industries can provide for the investment requirements of
the consumer goods industries.
16.       The directives and back-up documents prepared for the Twelfth
Congress make clear, that the economy is becoming more dependent upon
imported raw materials and--at least temporarily--energy, and more
vulnerable to sudden changes in the terms of trade. The Romanian
authorities, recognizing the need to economize on the use of energy and
imported raw materials, have been reexamining the composition of investment



- 6 -
in a number of sectors prior to finalizing the new five-year plan for
1981-1985. It is clear that to contain the growth of imports to manageable
proportions, domestic production must be stimulated in certain areas (i.e.
energy, investment goods) and the efficiency of input use improved. To
finance the necessary imports, exports must be increased, and export growth
will require both improvements in the sophistication and quality of
Romania's industrial goods and improvements in export marketing.
Improvements in the planning and management systems will be needed to ensure
that all these interlinked goals can be attained.
F. Creditworthiness
17.       With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 13 and 14
above, the debt service payments (including interest on short-term credits)
rose to $1.24 billion in 1979 or the equivalent of 12.2 percent of gross
foreign exchange earnings. In the convertible currency area where most of
Romania's debts were incurred, the debt service ratio was 20.6 percent
compared with 17.4 percent in 1978 and 18.6 percent in 1977. For 1980,
another large current account deficit is expected reflecting in part the
sharp increase in oil prices. To contain future deficits and to keep the
service burden manageable, the Government has recently adopted a series of
measures aimed at increasing exports and restraining imports. Besides the
steps taken in the crucial energy sector (see para. 7), these measures
include new financial incentives for exports; a directive giving priority to
export production over production for the domestic market; renewed emphasis
in offsetting trade arrangements; a consolidation of the investment program
which will result in lower imports of investment goods; and increased
recycling of raw materials. Changes in the foreign exchange system are
envisaged in the near future to reflect the changing economic priorities and
world market conditions. Given Romania's strenuous development efforts
within the context of well articulated plans, these measures and possible
future steps aimed at enhancing exports and economizing the use of imported
inputs, are likely to succeed in keeping the country's debt burden within
manageable limits, thus preserving its creditworthiness for medium and
long-term borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
18.1/     The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,707.6 million for 28 loans2/ in agriculture, industry, power and
transport. Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during
1975, but this situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of October 31, 1980.
1/ Paras. 19-22 are substantially the same as those in the President's
Report for the Orchards Project dated June 2, 1980, and those in the
President's Reports for a Fourth Power Project and a Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-
Prut Irrigation (BBSP) Project which are being considered by the
Executive Directors on December 23, 1980.
2/ Including a $125 million loan for a Fourth Power Project.



- 7 -
19.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. In addition, syndicated cofinancing loans of $200 million in
total have recently been concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation
and Drainage Project for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April
1979 and the Third Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was
made in December 1979. Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations
with commercial banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced of the
positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and have
indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future projects.
Bank lending also aims at supporting the steps being taken by the Government
to introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products
and production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for
necessary electric power development. Marketing, especially for export goods,
is also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture where
production is still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where
productivity levels are still comparatively low.
20.      A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for irrigation, industry, power, road and rail transport and regional
development. The Government has also proposed that the Bank consider lending
for a port project and the development of additional petroleum resources.
21.      In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in various sectors, including industry and transportation,
for 169 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually since
1975 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. Additional
courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses are
becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects to
begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.
22.      The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 13 percent of
Romania's total projected convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share
in Romania's debt service payments in 1980 is expected to be about 5.5 percent.



- 8-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
23.1/    Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing almost all of the nation's food, the raw materials re uired for
agricultural processing industries and significant foreign exchange earnings.
In 1978 agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP, 33 percent of the labor
force and 14 percent of export earnings. The proportion of the total labor
force employed in agriculture declined from 74 percent in 1950 to 33 percent
in 1978, thereby releasing a large number of people for employment elsewhere
in the rapidly growing Romanian economy. National income increased at an
average rate of about 9 percent from 1951 to 1978. During this period
national income in agriculture grew at a rate of 3.5 percent per annum.
Agriculture's share of national income declined from 28 percent in 1950 to 15
percent in 1978.
24.      About 14.9 million ha, or 63 percent of Romania's land area, are used
for agriculture. Of this area, 66 percent is arable, 29 percent is grassland
and 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. There are three principal
agro-climatic zones; the Plains Zone, the Foothills Zone and the Mountain and
Tableland Zone. The Plains Zone which is the richest agricultural area,
including all of the land in the Danube plains, includes 53 percent of
Romania's arable land. About 64 percent of all arable land is devoted to
production of grain (mostly wheat and maize). Other crops include sunflower,
sugarbeet, soybeans, potatoes, vegetables, fodder crops, grapes and fruit. In
1978 crop production accounted for 56 percent of total agricultural output,
while livestock accounted for 44 percent.
Sector Organization
25.      Romanian agriculture has undergone a major transformation following
the collectivization measures introduced since the Second World War. Today
agricultural production, especially crop production, is dominated by state
agricultural enterprises (IASs) and agricultural production cooperatives
(CAPs). For example, in 1978, 87 percent of cereal production was in the
socialist sector. Production by individual farmers and from small private
plots of cooperative members is important for fruit and livestock but not for
field crops. Agricultural mechanization stations (SMAs) play a major role in
providing machinery hire services. Recently a number of Inter-Cooperative
Associations (ICAs) have been formed through combining the activities of a
number of individual cooperatives. These ICAs are engaged in various large
scale agricultural operations such as pig and poultry production.
1/ Paras. 23-34 are substantially the same as those in the President's
Report for the Orchards Project dated June 2, 1980 and those in the
President's Report for a Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation (BBSP)
Project which is being considered by the Executive Directors simul-
taneously with this project.



-9-
26.      In 1978 Romania had 396 IASs with an average size of 5,100 ha and an
average labor force of 660. They farmed 2.0 million ha, equivalent to 14
percent of all agricultural land. Other State agricultural units covered 2.5
million hectares, or 17 percent of agricultural land. In the same year, there
were 4,400 CAPs, with an average size of 2,060 ha and 550 members. The total
area of land under CAPs was 9.1 million ha, equivalent to 61 percent of all
agricultural land. There were 709 SMAs which provide machinery services to
producers. Each SMA had an average of 140 tractors plus a wide range of other
equipment. Each working member of a CAP is allocated a small plot (normally
0.15 ha) which can be used for production of crops. Members are also allowed
to keep limited numbers of livestock on CAP land. About 10 percent of the
land controlled by CAPs is used for individual members' plots. Individual
farmers number almost half a million and own about 9 percent of total
agricultural land. Most of their farms are in the more mountainous regions.
They use only 5 percent of the nation's arable land, although they have 19
percent of the grasslands and 21 percent of the orchards. They own 16 percent
of all cattle, 14 percent of sheep, 12 percent of poultry and 8 percent of
pigs. Together with CAP plotholders they produced 54 percent of all milk, 59
percent of eggs, 41 percent of wool, 53 percent of poultry and 57 percent of
fruit in 1978.
27.      At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI).
MAFI plays a major role in preparing the Five Year Plan for the sector and is
the supervisory institution for plan implementation. In each district, the
Ministry is represented by a general directorate, which is responsible for all
agricultural activity in the district including both IASs and CAPs. Marketing
is organized nationally under MAFI, with general economic directorates
responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities. Foreign trade
companies are responsible for the exports of the general economic directorates.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
28.      Although considerable progress has been made in developing
agriculture in Romania, the sector remains relatively undeveloped. Between
1951 and 1978 gross agricultural output increased at an average rate of 4.5
percent. During this period the area of arable land has remained about the
same but crop yields have increased markedly. For example, the average yield
of wheat increased from 1.1 tons per ha in 1951-1955 to 2.8 tons per ha in
1976-1978, while maize yields increased from 1.3 tons per ha to 3.2 tons per
ha over the same period. Livestoc -ields have increased while there have
also been significant increases in nte numbers of all types of livestock.
Milk yields for instance, increased from 867 litres per cow in 1950 to 1,968
litres per cow in 1978. Nevertheless, crop and livestock yields in Romania
are still appreciably lower than those obtained in a number of other
countries. While agricultural production has been increasing, the labor force
in agriculture has been falling. Labor productivity has thus increased much
faster than agricultural output. In 1978 gross agricultural output per worker
was more than six times the level in 1950. Despite this substantial
improvement, the absolute level of labor productivity is still relatively
low. Labor intensive methods of production, such as hand harvesting of maize
and the use of animal-drawn carts, are still common, especially on
cooperatives and in the individual farm sector.



- 10 -
Sector Issues and Development Strategy
29.      The growth of Romanian agriculture has been constrained by several
factors, especially rainfall, lack of machinery and farm inputs and problems
concerned with organization and incentives. Rainfall in Romania is both low
and erratic, especially in the main cropping areas in the Plains Zone.
Flooding has also been serious in many low lying areas. Fortunately the soils
in the Plains Zone are good while there are excellent sources of water in the
Danube and its tributaries. Romania has therefore given high priority to
development of irrigation and drainage. The total area under irrigation has
increased from 200,000 ha in 1960 to 2.2 million ha in 1979. Government plans
to increase this to 3.7 million ha by 1985. By then 38 percent of arable land
would be irrigated.
30.      Serious shortages of machinery and farm inputs, especially
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides have been experienced. These
shortages have been aggravated by Romania's foreign exchange needs, for
Government has sometimes exported fertilizers or restricted imports of other
inputs needed by the agricultural sector. Hitherto, Government policy has
given much greater emphasis to development of IASs rather than CAPs. IASs
have been provided with the best managers and have received much higher levels
of investment and supplies of tractors, machinery and fertilizers, while CAPs
have been neglected. In 1978 the level of investment per ha of IASs was more
than five times that of CAPs and they were therefore more productive than
CAPs. This neglect of CAPs has been one of the key weaknesses of Romanian
agriculture, for CAPs control more than 60 percent of all agricultural land.
In 1978 Government decided to accord equal treatment to IASs and CAPs. This
new policy is to be implemented through the creation of Unified
Agro-industrial Councils (UACs) which are responsible for providing equal
levels of service and material inputs to IASs and CAPs. About 700 UACs have
been established, and for each one there is an SMA. Each UAC will be
responsible for coordinating all agricultural activities undertaken by the
IASs and CAPs for which it is responsible. On average each UAC will be
responsible for about 20,000 ha of land. Implementation of this new policy is
still underway and it is too early to assess the effectiveness of the UACs.
These organizational changes are being complemented by changes in the
structure of wages and incentive bonuses. These changes, which link payments
to workers to achievement of profit targets, were introduced in 1978 under the
"New Economic Measures". These changes have already been introduced on IASs
and their extension to cooperatives is planned.
31.      Agricultural policy is formulated within the framework of a national
plan approved by Government and the Romanian Communist Party. For the 1981-85
plan, the guidelines forecast that national income will increase between 6.7
and 7.4 percent p.a., gross industrial production will increase in the range
8.0 to 9.0 percent p.a. and gross agricultural production at 4.5 to 5.0
percent p.a. Investment in agriculture in this period will amount to 155
billion lei (US$8.6 billion), equivalent to 12 percent of total national
investment for the plan period. The main thrust of agricultural development
strategy will be to increase crop and livestock yields through improved
organization, the use of more efficient techniques, especially greater
mechanization, increased use of fertilizers and other inputs, and further
large investments in irrigation.



- 11 -
Agricultural Investment Financing
32.      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Government's
specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation and food
processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans in support
of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. It lends to
both IASs and CAPs and repays the Government as it receives repayments of
subloans. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution and
supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located in
Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-branches
throughout the country. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures for
all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural
investments for more than lei 10,000,000 ($50,000) are reviewed and approved
by MAFI and those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($3.9 million) must be approved
by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides short-term credit to, and
maintains settlement accounts for, all cooperative and State agricultural
enterprises; and acts as fiscal agent for the Government for collection of
State revenues from these enterprises. As the Government's channel for
investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary source of funds is the
State budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore includes a provision that the
Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds for the implementation and
operation of the project.
Bank Contributions in the Agricultural Sector
33.      The Bank's lending strategy is based on the findings of various
reports, including the Agricultural Sector Survey of October 1976 (No.
953a-RO), the Basic Economic Report of March 1978 (No. 1601-RO) and a number
of recent appraisal reports. A cattle and sheep subsector survey was also
carried out during 1979 and its report is under preparation. Beyond the
provision of foreign exchange, the main objectives of Bank lending remain to
assist the Government in addressing the problems of production instability and
low productivity. In addition, in appropriate cases, foreign exchange
earnings or savings are an objective. Attainment of these objectives will
help to raise the level and quality of domestic food consumption.
34.      With increasing experience in the agricultural sector and a greatly
improved relationship with the Romanian authorities, the Bank has been able to
make other significant contributions. Technical improvements in project
concept and design have been attained in a number of fields including
irrigation, poultry and pig production and horticulture. Additionally, BAFI
has decided to introduce the Bank methodology in its economic evaluation of
subprojects. The Bank has made twelve loans for agriculture totalling $741.5
million since 1975. The Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project, the first
agricultural project financed by the Bank in Romania, has been successfully
completed and a completion report on this project is under preparation. No
reports of the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department have yet been prepared
on agricultural prcjects in Romania.



- 12 -
The Cattle Subsector
35.      The climate and resource base are well suited to cattle and sheep and
there is a long tradition of animal husbandry in the country. However, per
capita meat consumption in Romania is about 30 and 25 percent below the
average per capita consumption in the EEC and Eastern European countries
respectively. Per capita consumption of dairy products is also lower than in
those countries. The Romanian Government has recently decided to take
measures to meet the unsatisfied demand for fresh meat as part of its policy
to give increased attention to consumer issues while continuing to earn
foreign exchange from agricultural exports. Meat is allocated, through the
central planning process, between domestic and export markets. In the past,
domestic consumption of fresh meat has been suppressed due to the priority the
Government has given to earning much needed foreign exchange. This is
reflected in the Second Livestock Project (Loan 1669-RO) which has a heavy
emphasis on exports. The three previous livestock projects financed by the
Bank are being implemented without any major problems. The proposed project,
aside from its considerable technical and institutional improvements, would
contribute to raising the level of meat consumption and dairy products in the
domestic market as well as providing additional foreign exchange earnings.
36.      The livestock sector accounted for 44 percent of gross agricultural
production in 1978 with beef and milk accounting for 15 percent. Milk alone
accounts for 10 percent making it the single most important agricultural
commodity. Production of beef and milk is planned to increase significantly
by 1985, to 21 percent of total agricultural production. The livestock
population in 1978 included 6.3 million cattle, 10.3 million pigs, 15.6
million sheep and 100 million poultry. The feed base for the cattle industry
comprises the by-products and required rotation crops on the 10 million
hectares of arable land together with 4.5 million hectares of pasture and
meadow not suitable for cultivation. Important crops such as wheat, barley,
soybeans, sunflower and sugarbeets provide much of the by-products used for
feeding livestock.
37.      Of the 6.3 million cattle, CAP plot holders and individual farmers
own 43 percent, CAPs themselves own 43 percent and the State owns 14 percent.
Due to higher productivity, beef and milk production attributable to CAP plot
holders and individual farmers is higher than the percentage of ownership
(milk 53 percent and beef 47 percent).
38.      Past growth rates for both cattle and sheep, in numbers and
production, are very acceptable for an established industry such as
Romania's. However, productivity is low when compared to countries in Europe
and North America with similar industries.  There are three major reasons for
the low productivity; the inappropriate and outdated technologies, the low
quality of inputs and the institutional constraints such as poor feed analysis
and inadequate nutrition extension services available for livestock producers.
39.      Among the technical inputs applied to animal husbandry in Romania,
veterinarian services are virtually the sole satisfactory aspect. Compared to
other technical services, veterinarians are well trained. This has caused
undue concentration on health and resulted in control of the industry by
veterinarians rather than production specialists. Dairy housing, feed
harvesting and storage, feeding, manure removal and milking systems are



- 13 -
outdated and extremely labor intensive. Poor management techniques and
generally weak technical support at the farm level also contribute to the
relatively poor performance. This is partly because technical specialists and
research suffer from poor training and international isolation.
40.      Forage quality, all important to economically efficient ruminant
animal production, is very poor and there is a gross deficiency of protein
feed. This creates serious direct loss to the economy since much more
expensive concentrate energy feed, mainly maize grain, is used as a
substitute, which otherwise could be exported. It is also a serious indirect
loss depressing productivity. At present, the social sector feed base depends
heavily on crop production. Yields here are comparatively low despite the
high quality resource base, due mainly to inadequate inputs, notably
fertilizer and machinery. The Government plans will in part resolve the
fertilizer deficiency by 1985 but there will still be insufficient machinery.
Grassland utilization, a key factor in the future development of the cattle
industry, is underdeveloped. Less than 40 percent of the grassland area
receives any fertilizer at all, and the rest usually only very small amounts.
However, the Government plans to increase the area receiving fertilizer to 80
percent by 1985. MAFI, through activities of its Pasture Enterprises, is now
actively engaged in pasture improvement schemes involving clearing, reseeding,
fencing and access road construction. Such improvement will expand the
carrying capacity of the pasture, which has the potential for a 50 percent
increase. To achieve this, development of pasture management skills must be
stimulated.
41.      In its 1981-85 Five Year Plan, Romania plans substantial improvement
of the cattle subsector through (a) further investment in large, industrial
type complexes conducive to greater efficiency in State and cooperative units,
improved technology absorption and better use of managerial skills; (b)
import of quality stock and upgrading of local cattle to improve beef and milk
merits; (c) growth in beef fattening capacities to absorb increased numbers
of young animals destined for fattening from new and existing dairy farms;
(d) modernization of older dairy and beef complexes; and (e) assistance in
expanding production by the individual producers mainly by improving grassland
in foothills and mountain areas where their animals are located. The proposed
project would be in line with these Government strategies and respond directly
to the major problems of the subsector as described above.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      The project, which is included in the Government's Five Year
Development Plan, was orig3nally discussed with a Cattle and Sheep subse -or
mission in May 1979 for p--sible Bank financing, following an extensive
questionnaire on that suIsl,or submitted to the Government in January 1979
and answered in early April. A preparation mission, including a cattle
nutrition consultant, iisitez Romania in September 1979. Another
preparation mission, includir& i dairy engineer to review the milking
technology, visited Romani;, inT I-vembei and Decembcr 1979 and discussed the
Government's preliminary prepar.t ion re. ri-.  Through these stages of
preparation, the Bank has dis '  ;rd the project conce[c extensively with the
Government and has made significant contributions to project design. As a
result of these discussions, the Government has decided to develop a



- 14 -
nationwide feed analysis service and a nutrition extension service for farm
animals to gain substantial reductions in output costs. Additionally the
Government will alter the current tandem milking method to the herringbone
system proposed by the Bank on the nationwide basis which will result in
considerable efficiency improvement. Also, the Government has agreed for the
first time to include pasture improvement for Bank financing which would
assist Romania to make better use of its relatively underdeveloped and so far
neglected pasture resource. The project was appraised in April and May 1980,
and negotiations were held in Washington in November 1980. The Romanian
delegation was headed by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI and included
representatives from BAFI and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Livestock IV (Cattle) Project"
No.3139a-RO dated November 24, 1980 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the project are mentioned in the
Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Description
43.      The proposed project is designed to contribute to expanding
production of beef and milk to increase domestic consumption and generate
additional foreign exchange earnings. This would be achieved through
increased investments incorporating new technology and through the creation of
new institutions to serve the sector. The principal innovations under the
project would include improved design of cow housing, introduction of
herringbone milking parlors into all dairy subprojects, improved forage
quality and the augmentation and strengthening of four major support
services: a) animal production and grassland research, b) milking machine
testing and maintenance service, c) forage and concentrate feed analysis
laboratories, and d) animal nutrition advisory service. Investment in
grassland improvement would serve to specialize and expand production, an
important source of low cost feed in area less well suited to arable
agriculture.
44.      The project would consist of selected investments over a three year
period (mid 1981 to mid 1984) as part of the Romanian Five Year Plan for
1981-1985 for milk and beef production. The project would comprise about 60
percent of the total planned investment over the three year period. It would
include; (i) 92 new dairy farms each of about 920 cows, (ii) 32 modernized
dairy farms, expanding from 520 cows to about 680 cows each, (iii) 17 new
specialized breeding heifer production farms, (iv) 19 new beef fattening units
with about 7,700 head capacity each, (v) 109 improved pasture units, each
averaging 1,000 ha, (vi) about 5 milk processing plants, 6 cheese cold stores,
2 cattle slaughtering and processing facilities and 2 beef product cold
stores, (vii) a line of credit for individual producers for milk, meat and
breeding animal production, and (viii) technical services and research. Large
scale on-farm milk production investments would be undertaken by both IASs and
CAPs and located both in hills and plains areas to make use of available
forage. A minimum cost feed base would be assured through the maximum use of
by-products and required rotation crops having no economic opportunity cost.
This, together with improved forage quality, would ensure minimum use of high
cost concentrate feeds and those having a high opportunity cost. Exclusive
use of loose stall housing and herringbone milking parlors, laid out to avoid



_15 -
bottlenecks in the flow of operations, would minimize labor needed for both
milking and feeding and also improve control of the animals and reduce the
incidence of mastitis. The project would provide four regional forage and
feed analysis laboratories and a specialized nutrition advisory service to
link these to the farms. This would ensure full knowledge and correct usage
of the available feeds and forages. A milking machine maintenance and testing
service would assist in ensuring mechanical performance of both the project
machines and others. Applied research would develop country specific data on
the nutritional aspects of Romanian produced feeds as well as on milking
systems performance and pasture utilization. Details of the research program
would be agreed upon with the Bank. Only on-farm subprojects incorporating
the modern technology and utilizing the supporting technical services would be
included in the project. Beef fattening and breeding heifer production to be
undertaken in the project by IASs and CAPs would be exclusively in the hills
area to maximize use of the lower cost grass forage. Grassland improvement in
the project would be confined exclusively to the rainfed hills area, defined
as mainly between 400 and 800 meters in elevation, to ensure that there would
be no opportunity cost to utilizing these areas as grassland. Improved
grassland would be utilized for grass and hay, partly by IASs and CAPs but
mainly by CAP plotholders and individual farmers. For the latter, it would be
administered by the Popular Council (local district general administrative
bodies) and would be mainly for beef production although some manufacturing
milk may also be produced. Processing and storage facilities would also be
constructed to meet incremental capacity requirements under the 1981-85 Five
Year Plan. The technological aspects of these are well known in Romania as
both slaughtering and processing facilities and cold stores have been financed
by the Bank under the previous livestock projects.
Project Cost and Financing
45.      The estimated total cost of the project is $412.2 million, including
$1.8 million duties and taxes, with an estimated foreign exchange component of
$138.2 million. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work under the
Romanian system of administered prices. The cost of equipment and materials
has been estimated on the basis of the prices prevailing in mid-1980.
Physical contingencies have been provided at an average of 4 percent which
will be adequate because the cost estimates are based on detailed production
models. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on an
increase of 5.25 percent for the second half of 1980, 9 percent for 1981, 8
percent for 1982, 7 percent for 1983-85 and 6 percent thereafter. Reflecting
experience with other Bank-financed projects to date, price contingencies on
local costs have been taken at one percent.
46.      The proposed Bank loan of $80 million would finance 19 percent of the
estimated total costs and 58 percent of the estimated foreign costs of the
project. The balance of the project cost would be financed by sub-borrowers'
contributions ($109.1 million) and loans from BAFI and cofinanciers ($223.1
million). The Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The proposed loan would be made to BAFI with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, and would be for a term of 15 years, including 3 years
grace, at an interest rate of 9.25 percent per annum. The Government has, in



-16 -
principle, agreed to seek cofinancing of up to $100 million for this proposed
project. Judging by the response of cofinanciers to other Bank-financed
projects in Romania, it is expected that offers of cofinancing will be
obtained. The amount and timing of cofinancing will depend on market
conditions and amounts being raised by Romania on other Bank-financed
projects. It is likely that for this project cofinancing will be in the range
of US$50-100 million equivalent.
47.      Out of these funds together with BAFI's own funds, about $155 million
equivalent would be onlent to CAPs, about $64 million equivalent to IASs,
about $24 million equivalent to food processing enterprises, about $30 million
equivalent to MAFI for pasture improvement, about $24 million equivalent to
individual producers, and about $6 million equivalent for research and
technical services. BAFI would onlend these funds for terms of up to 16 years
including up to 3 years grace to cooperatives at 3 percent per annum, for terms
of up to 10 years including up to 3 years grace to IASs, MAFI and food
processing enterprises at 2 percent per annum during the construction period
and 4 percent thereafter, and for terms of 5 years for individual producers at
3 percent per annum. As in earlier projects, these rates result in a positive
spread over BAFI's financial and administrative costs in providing the loans.
Government controls on prices have limited domestic inflation to around one
percent per annum. Thus BAFI loans under the project would be made at
positive real interest rates, on the same terms and conditions as are extended
to other borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Project Execution and Operation
48.      The project would be carried out by cooperatives and State
enterprises under agricultural credit subprojects administered by BAFI, and
BAFI's branch offices would be responsible for overall supervision and
monitoring of subprojects. Subloans would be made by BAFI to MAFI for grant
financing by MAFI of investment in Popular Council (para. 44) administered
pasture improvement schemes. Similarly, funds would be made available by BAFI
to MAFI for financing of technical services and research, all of which would
be under MAFI's control.BAFI maintains detailed records of sub-borrowers'
financial and production results relative to subproject appraisal expectations
and would submit to the Bank quarterly reports (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(c)(ii)). Since necessary information would be available from BAFI's
branch offices, the incremental cost of monitoring project implementation
would be negligible. Technical assistance to the cooperatives and State
enterprises carrying out subprojects would be provided by MAFI, particularly
the judet (district) Directorates General for Agriculture, research stations,
and the food inspection services, under a well developed program of assistance
to such entities. All subproject investment proposals would have to be
cleared by the responsible MAFI agency before review by BAFI. BAFI would
prepare an individual summary analysis for each investment project, including
key operating and investment indicators. For subproject review by the Bank,
BAFI would prepare and submit for Bank approval individual summary analysis
for representative types and numbers of subprojects according to agreed
methodology of analysis (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(e)). In
addition, details of the cattle nutrition research, the dairy husbandry
research and the pasture research would be submitted to the Bank for comments
and agreement prior to implementation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). MAFI
would have responsibility for all necessary arrangements for international
procurement.



_17 -
Market Outlook
49.      The analysis of the market and of the demand and supply pattern
indicates that no marketing problems need be expected. The Romanian per
capita consumption level of both milk products and meat including beef is low
compared with EEC countries and most of the Eastern European countries, and is
expected to be so through 1985. Despite the recent growth in milk products
sales by the Milk Central (10 percent per annum for fresh products but at a
much lower rate for cheese and liquid milk), the demand for milk products is
still largely unsatisfied. This is evidenced by frequent long queues for milk
products, and peasant market prices for cheeses and cream are well above the
social sector controlled prices. Over the country as a whole, the Milk
Central estimates that the total milk products market is 15-30 percent
undersupplied at present. Under the Bank's assumptions of supply development
(5.1 percent annual growth giving 71.9 million hectolitres (hl) as against the
Romanian Plan target of 8.1-8.8 percent annual growth giving 85-88.7 million
hl), Romania would continue to be in a milk deficit situation up to 1985. The
Bank's estimates of supplies available for human consumption by 1985 are 218
kg per capita excluding butter, compared to 1978 consumption of 160 kg per
capita. This is below estimated demand of 223 kg per capita in 1985. Should
planned butter and cheese exports occur, the unfulfilled gap would further
expand. Meat is also in short supply. Pig meat prices on the peasant market
are on average 55 percent higher than official prices. Beef is only available
through the official market outlets, but its absence in many shops confirms
the shortage. The Romanian authorities estimates that per capita meat
consumption in 1978 would have been 70 kg rather than the actual figure of 53
kg if supplies were available.  By 1985, Romania plans to supply the market
with 67 to 72 kg per capita of meat and meat products, which compares to an
estimated potential demand for 1985 of 85 kg per capita at present prices.
Compared to 12.5 kg in 1978, per capita beef consumption planned for 1985 at
16-18 kg remains relatively low compared with many other countries. Thus, no
market problem is expected for beef produced under the project. Romania has
been a consistent net exporter of beef over the last decade. In 1979, ten
different and diverse countries imported an average of over 2,000 tons beef
each. On the basis of the recent FAO projections and the recent Romanian
export records, the planned 1985 export target of 30,000 tons of live cattle
and 152,000 tons of carcass beef are realistic from the demand standpoint. A
detailed review of supply situation for 1985 carried out under the Bank's
recent Cattle and Sheep Subsector Survey indicates that insufficient beef is
likely to be available to fulfill the Plan domestic consumption and export
targets. In the light of this, no overall marketing problems are envisaged in
the disposal of beef produced under the project.
Audit
50.      BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors to an
annual audit by inspectors from the Ministry of Finance and from the Court of
Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of Ministers and the
President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its transactions are
satisfactory and BAFI's audited overall and project operating and financing
results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
BAFI's fiscal year.



- 18 -
Procurement
51.      Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank loan
of US$80.0 million would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977." US$78.0
million of the items would be procured through international competitive
bidding, and US$1.75 million of specialized equipment for feed and forage
analysis laboratories and milking machine testing and maintenance kits would
be procured through limited international tendering after soliciting bids from
suppliers in at least three countries. US$0.25 million would be expended
through MAFI for international training in connection with technical services
and research. Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15
percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. The application
of preference is not expected to significantly affect the result of bidding on
the proposed project. It is expected that foreign suppliers would win
contracts for about US$4.8 million for slaughterhouse and meat processing
equipment and specialized research equipment which are not manufactured in
Romania. Other items to be procured through international competitive bidding
and limited international tendering (about US$75.2 million) are available
domestically and, based on experience with previous Bank-financed agricultural
projects, it is expected that the Romanian manufacturers would be successful
in bidding for these items. The Bank would not finance construction works
under the project; these would be carried out by the Romanian Construction
Trusts, which are experienced and familiar with local conditions, methods and
regulations.
Disbursement
52.      The Bank loan would be disbursed at the rate of 27 percent of the
amounts disbursed by BAFI for dairy farms, beef fattening and heifer breeding
farms, individual producers, milk and meat processing and storage facilities,
and buildings for technical services and research. Disbursement would be made
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which is not
submitted for review but is retained by BAFI and made available for inspection
by Bank supervision missions. Reimbursement for BAFI disbursements for
equipment and for research and technical services would be at the rate of 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures
ex-factory and training for technical services and research would be made at
the rate of 100 percent of foreign expenditures. Prior to disbursement for
the following individual components, BAFI would submit to the Bank for its
approval (i) details of the National Feed Analysis Service including an
implementation timetable, location of laboratories, equipment, staffing and
training (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para.3(f)) and, (ii) a program and
timetable for training and equipping the Milking Machine Testing and
Maintenance Service (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(g)).
Environment
53.      Romania now maintains a comprehensive system of standards and
controls to ensure satisfactory waste disposal, and a strict system of
penalties is maintained to ensure compliance. Facilities financed under the



- 19 -
project would be constructed and operated in conformity with this
environmental protection code. During construction, each on-farm production
complex would be required by law to install suitable waste water treatment
works as well as separate well and water pumping facilities. In the manure
and waste disposal system, combined solid and liquid manure would be pumped to
concrete holding tanks for sedimentation and separation of liquid and
semi-solid materials for fertilization of agricultural land. Similarly, the
slaughtering and processing facilities and cold stores facilities would be
required to construct effluent treatment plans to separate fats and solid
materials, prior to discharge into the municipal sewerage system. Provision
would also be made for a separate drainage system for rainwater. A strict
system of penalties is maintained to ensure compliance with water purity
requirements.
Benefits and Risks
54.      The project would contribute to increased production and even more
importantly to increased production efficiency under the livestock development
program included in the Government's Five Year Plan for the period 1981-1985.
The important technological improvements are described in paras. 43 and 44
above. At the same time, the project would help the Government's effort,
begun recently, to improve the quality and quantity of domestic food
consumption, a policy objective with which the Bank concurs. Reasons for
supporting this greater emphasis on consumption have been given in para. 15.
The project would also bring about foreign exchange earnings, mainly through
beef products exports. At full development in 1985/86 for all but new dairy
units which reach full development in 1986/87, annual incremental off-farm
project production would be about 379 thousand tons (3.8 million hl) of milk,
40 thousand tons of carcass beef (or about 165 thousand fattened cattle and 15
thousand cull cows) and 33 thousand breeding heifers. Additionally, the
incremental farmyard manure produced would have an active substance fertilizer
equivalent of about 14,000 tons of nitrogen, 7,000 tons of phosphate and
16,000 tons of potash. Annual incremental milk production at full development
from the project would permit in the absence of exports a per capita
consumption of 250 kg in 1985/86 compared to 160 kg in 1978. Even assuming
that about 70 percent of the specialized beef units output or some 25,000 tons
carcass weight will be exported, additional beef production from this project
will permit an increase of 0.7 kg per capita in Romanian domestic beef
consumption by 1985/86. Final goods from the project would be sold
domestically through the State fixed price marketing system or exported
through agencies. In either case surplus funds would be transferred to the
State for redistribution in accordance with centrally planned expenditures.
55.      The economic rate of return to the project excluding the
agro-industries component is 22 percent on 88 percent of the total costs for
which benefits have been quantified. The economic rate of return for CAP
dairy farms on hills and plains, whose costs are $116 million, is 17.9
percent. The rates of return range between 41.8 percent and 43.8 percent for
dairy farm modernizations in CAPs and IASs whose costs are $17.2 million in
total. The CAP and IAS beef fattening farms would have the rates of return of
11.0 percent and 14.2 percent with the costs of $11.8 million and $16.2
million, respectively. The economic rate of return is least sensitive to



- 20 -
changes in capital costs and most sensitive to revenue variations. For the
economic rate of return for the total project to fall to 11.3 percent,
revenues would have to fall by 10 percent and at the same time the capital and
operating costs would have to increase by 10 percent, respectively. Beef
production is particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue. Due to the
cyclical nature of world beef production and prices, these will inevitably
occur both upwards and downwards; though less so in Romania than in other
countries due to highly competent export market management. Most important in
this respect is that the projected long run trend in international beef prices
is positive thus ensuring viability for beef production in the future.
Agro-industries investments are not analyzed pending BAFI's submission of
investment analysis according to the agreed methodology for disbursement
applications. Similar investments under previous Bank financed Romanian
livestock projects have shown ERRs ranging from 15 percent to 20 percent of
total investment and expected to be repeated here. This component accounts
for only 6 percent of total investment under the project and would be unlikely
to alter the total on-farm components ERR by more than 1 or 2 points. The
individual producers component also accounts for about 6 percent of total
project investment. Similar types of investment financing under the Second
Livestock Project have shown rates of return, both economic and financial,
equal to or somewhat greater than for similar investments in the social
sector. Consequently a complete analysis of this component would be likely to
increase the overall economic rate of return marginally. The project is
expected to yield a number of benefits whose value cannot be quantified,
including the benefits of the improved technology and technical services as
well as those from research to units outside the project including individual
producers and CAP plot holders. Given the robustness of the quantified
portion of the project and the significant unquantified benefits, project
risks, principally delay in upgrading forage quality and provision of
agroindustries capacities, are quite acceptable and no greater than can
normally be expected with operations of this type.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 3, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                        Page I of 5 pages
WOMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROMANIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVD,ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTTHATE)
TOTAL             237.5                              MOST RECET             CEINRALLY PLANNED         INDUSTRIALIZED
ACRICULTURAL      149.6            1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               ECONOMIES                COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 180.0       510.0    1750.0                     1186.8                  8104.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EO,IVALENT)    1342.0     3013.0   4042.0                      2116.2                  7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. KID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    18.4        20.4      21.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.1       40.8      46.5                       35.5                     76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. rH4.                     77.0        85.0      92.0                       83.6                   142.8
PER SQ. DM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0      135.0    146.0                       228.0                   523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        28.2        25.9      25.9                       30.8                    23.5
15-64 YRS.                        65.1        65.5      64.1                       62.1                    65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  6.7         8.6      10.0                        7.1                     11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
t  TOTAL                               1.2        1.0       0.9                         1.4                     0.7
JRBAN                             3.8         2.8       2.5                         2.9                     1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0         20.0      19.0                       18.2                    13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     9.0         10.0       9.0                        7.1                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.2         1.3       1.2                         1.3                    0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF KARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0        89.0     152.0                      108.5                    110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  108.0       115.0    130.0                       113.7                   131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         86.0        90.0    103.0                        75.1                    98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      30.0        34.0      43.0                       28.6                     62.1
CHIILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    3.0         2.4        1.0                        1.1                     0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EEPECTANCY AT BIRT$ (YEARS)   66.0        68.0      70.0                       70.1                     73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          75.7        49.4      31.0                       22.4                     13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          780.O/c     840.Od   734.0                      2070.8                    624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     620/c          ..    638.0                       240.1                    218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           130.O0c     1M0.0    109.0                        96.7                    121.2
URBAN                            50.0/c      SO.0      60.0
RURAL                           620.0/c     770.0    730.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        23.0        ..                         ..                     17.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         3.2/e
URBAN                              ..         2.8/e
RURAL                              *-         3.4        *
AVERAGE NUBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.4e       .
URBAN                                         1.3je
RURAL                                         1.4/e      .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLLINGS)
TOTAL                               *-       49.0e        .
URBAN                              ..        86.0 i      ..
RURAL                              ..         27.0 a



- 22 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RQtANIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERCES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATF)
MOST RECENT             CENTRALLY PLANNED          INhDUSTRIALIZED
1960  7b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                ECONOMIES                 COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        113.0     102.0                        118.7                    100.1
MALE                 101.0       112.0      102.0                       117.5                     102.2
FEMALE                95.0'      114.0      101.0                       120.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         45.0      77.0                        100.2                     87.1
MALE                  27.0        51.0       81.0                       101.9                      84.4
FEMALE                22.0        38.0       73.0                        97.8                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY) 54.0           58.0       70.0                        47.4                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIIMaY                            25.0         21.0      21.0                         16.2                     21.3
SECONDARY                          16.0         18.0      19.0                         13.0                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..          ..       98.0                          ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          2.2         ..                          ..                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        120.0        152.0     146.0                        403.5                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         73.0     139.0                        200.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
IhTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TBOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        169.0     129.0                        354.3                    327.4
CINElA AhNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           9.8        8.7                        14.4                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10509.5    11408.2  12015.8
FEYALE (PERCENT)                   44.9        14Id.5     445.0                        50.2                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.5        4T7.O      33.0                         30.2                      7.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 20.5        26.3       33.2                        30.8                      38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.1         56.0      55.9                         47.3                     44.6
MALE                                 64.5         63.3       62.8                        57.1                     58.1
FEbALE                               50.1         49.0      49.1                         37.0                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.7         0.7        0.7                         0.7                      0.8
INCu'E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENI OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LCWESI 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ESTIXATED LELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     394.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     394.0
ESTLhATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on avallability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; L WHO estimates; /e 1966.
April. 1980



- 23 -                                                                                    ANNEX T
Page 3 of 5 page2:
1WVIWITIPe  ItOt tWiAi. ttwptrATtf
Knee.:  AlttAch the data seI draw    t. en.er.. tene.e..           tie.  y    exatott ienrla. t_`_ I        "       E ehsdea   ontdta   hy net IO atr
tlInx. ......  ..'..       I.,in       v H-.Id.)-t,,..ro.et.                                      .....n.t ne:,  -tl.i,,     Iddn.e   Ittc1,
at th  a'.) .rc   o,,ono  I ecept  or .I ...t . ho  o   . trntr    a-rbre'tJ)   n.i.Not    -rt    ndPOI.tc 
fatio-outceol  at  lnttlesl n the to.. tort Sort Actsthe atetaca ate cltctirn  aIltot atIL.. t.toetansltditact Indcat     thandshone onl  ottas e
date  rid tn.t  7.7lIon., caution   b I1:   1 too  te.'c.so  It,1 11" re .ent, .eeae  atoeInf stst    .ooh .r To    ....ee I. ternly  a tat tetpatogLthe naI-e
axstt.(hsade"a                                                                                  xaa  n   e  eceia       ossis   11.   note  St peSnftOt   P-
10.1-r ct-I      sose  ra   ncot  ntItc  ee  sd  eee    etre                                     toa,us--c.' plairiecol  n   nscan    .51
CUP PtR CAP.iTA  LS)) - CH? p.e ocntte e-tt .. tee  trrs t ts t plitt a.             a-.ta.so..AI 1144b  the- ir,  elict   tat   nt topital hede
Oalettd- I         ......... otteto  ect    -d en  Ats        197n-78 baste); i9h0O       .    totab     hbepbloed ort-ate ttnoled ecctlte  hI                   ytt  t 
19)0, s.f 1916 dais.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bablIttistli  tanne .. ..o.p.t. ea.    Iit:ht)rot  persnotl_ ecefe
DitiC  CO%IL).'MTTIIyPC  CAPITA- A-InnstnntLntootnerii.   hrnhnattce   ntptetan                                                  xtt iteet  enoni dint,nttic "'t"Iroestedt.1
and lantte  potrlotte  sat.eal sa en  hydno-  n Ios  and otootteeal ala-            retr  tt       -resotln  aratIdb brphnetnta   tbct hn a edinal.. eestatnt
teitap)in blogaea  f oal entnlenn, par Laia   90   90   n   91nra   st                                   o.  ohtnh  ftfe  t-ptto             snrfdatioo ad pronde 
data.                                                                                          ttate   rater  o   ct.    aiiit    tesa  eu!peo                        tibebop
tLe lolde tIthe ptntipsI  --ner    - n   oteud           bnttl.daretra.L
POPiLAUTIO. A.ND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 cospitels to-d  -eectr    h-setnl a-ed erdctel -nd -t...nt,rtt  rettt.1
Tetl Pechen on.0)-Year tet1linne   -aof July 1: 1960, 1970, end I971                           ..e.tn  o- tonrItal ted - Inne  nio- ut edleoet   rdlssthtga
dse                                                                                          tEes hsapittle dt,,ided by tie eccbee ot beds.
leban Ponlale         feeon     tt! -.     fato of urban no total potiltte
asog   oon         19s;  S0. 1970, and 1978 data.                                          Aoenlc   ftnieod  oroepebAeod                             tonal. -b.rbe. end rral-
Poewticl-n It nse001 -   ratppltn   rjotoesehtde   .                                          n ibti  vein sslt.   ALnndrn  ldger tap or  hop  tolhati~tgtdt it
tanl ppuor on  e  ta  ndc--en    Iaroralin-so                ..rnttrd e.             r.d nthnrcldfo  taricin  Ipipoee
Peeeoio    pers..t    -o enlc    ce dpelse ofi threw  le-lseAn                    Ana...en-,h-r  f pesoa,       e   O -total  u(bnen..ff   A- doeag.
leg I Ca apacisop enbirthinoxea:t!ma slob onon- y  paIar I n-on                    en of p-ron  per eI-t  Ill .Il cre,od rune  oruidctono
-twean  for (smt tyi, rso  alto heir three lee-1asulc   decline IrI                        An...tApi,d paEt.
ad ts-t.t11   trano   foPouoncn            ..ooe.                                        ot tOWo, tabsa, cad eurelf--             .E dellogtp,etJLn-p.
eseeos     hia. O 'it sthi-nd only aftor fertilityrtcdcit   t                   bttndOrlantIno
the  _ple-steo   er   ttnintepouto    at ic...                   eac  aencin               Poaysho      oa,tl   n   eaaOoetnl  acad dsale
cetiated o  the baalp of the projectd ohsrectwIlelc  of tha populatIon                       priasnytoo-esPoplnon;ntn  piyoeludea Lhthldteoeatd b-I
in Cha.ea  2000,. ad tba  Iacf d-li-t of-Ieilltysna  te Iepla                                years...Itd tund top dlf to...nn lncthcs ot pniworyedu . t..           tot-!f.
sian baa baa, rtaohcd.                                                        tints~~~~~tti-y. ... o ...pApils   t  OIn  ra",bnnoici  sicl  aAO
Par  n. h. a ot.olrpe l.tIsyd  P- Cnae  naE silont . nor eriu--ine   tend                p-nudd.... .                  i I-L h            t1l,!_ t  ..             P"
Pc_ .---b-   fon.ho.1 -t                                       1.  tn-non                                                         L
12t~..~0.tndne 'n-order   C-  h'Iuc-   Cl-li pedro)  iutntaa(15                      in  c   0rntcl.44tn  l   ccl-t  r.ynogta=  n-zO  dporet  indap
letn    90   90. cd1975 dat.                                                       Ptlnebreoo    n-r,  n   eonnv-Ttleudoeatuld
?o~uaniu  Croch fns (nrc~7.I,,,~ne1    Sooal gnon  rate. of tEsl. aId-             peliary en               1-odsy  en   dtn,ided by nuebeec s1t ...utb..a it bs
pswppitosfoe 1950-h0,  960O-70. end 1970-78.oeepodglyl.
Pentsaoto  fGroth fete (na-c-no  -u-oo    aoal         hren  -teo   atohePta                  Adult. lit.teoanyrs       (p.enne.t) -Itnaran  adults fablls en read         vole.)
-aler   o  19)0-h0, 1960-dI, ad 1970-78.                                                  stpcro..tttss  sOtots1 adult Vpapluriu  aged 11 psute ant wea.
Ceada limb Can  freeI thousanId) - Aou1.l ins birthe Par abaussad sfM dpe
PapulattotI 190 - 1970,an1978 dsn.                                                      Cnntt-t
Cr.ado Pear' Lan  (per thoAsand'd) -          duoattin P doat b per .th au   ft aId-panePa..tneer C-o  f no ehooxand pop.letio)-   P.eena   oaeneyia 
pustn;1960. 1970  and 19.dn.cntcc..                                                                  itaco   ib  pa-ton; ..ttludt eabuaso.... hea... n..at
boo cone  oapreu.nite- period tiaeef          ecne    rstysoee  fntr                        'c p,ntt,  ro- CnnyfAllca)nC                        Itypet of r-ee- fr       , totrdb
cttcrce,  tulccAo-on-d.r:rn                 960cvc..1b0  -hd   7.-- uc4 nn ;..                                   -    connn;dIu:c
L-FcXycci<os,cr.c2j:;   -n    ktca                                -ny  Iscpon                   ecadteooei   o-ctlx   n   0ynr   hn  elcato    fnel   a
al   eld  os,i -ena ege groap.                                                               general pubic per rhousad pcpulttlon; -noldecunli.....d TV  ..o.isott
-v-.c.--o-ncl:cot.on: .... rrc-.c-Ir--:  I_-fC-  V ocnheo-deo t.ntrnla
trDono N44 ecTuctlonnIo Cctt- 1''7.t3)   loduofpar  actc  anuel                                110  c
ofal  fuatond ncc   ~dddooetlutend   odledau                                    dll   onne  citen  icoucc    dtn-    sapnudds  pb
IsaE alna  pef        eat    orsdt.tnne    rouygod   eg  euaos                             to ho `daily  if it appoene as  Lat fou  t.ioe A ob
Seced o   nErwhIth ar  .diblo  and  -oorinouree f .a.off.:an                              tinon toA-         eden   onCno  per Yea-P-s...d onthe etbce s
te. arc oluded).  Actrocace prdcno   atech  -ouory Lt btecd on.    l-.                                                       -t
--lsl  orga prndut-  grn .Isoc I  hod,-At S,1970. and 1978 dens.                        titaecl   uogo.  cr   nldn    dials   adiai  iea
Parcot  oneo   aoitI onn   trcorrne,    Coeputod ftro                                        5d fabl   teaIe
per day.  Available  uplo                  --orrtor _t prdunnt-. topor-  less           7-r1  FIOP00   foh-uxadx) - fc-onia-l  soan p-r-               o S. t1itdie
coporr. sodtlranwc lvancc .  Netc-.,p tea  tc lue anc.al ted. cado.      i ooce an  ueeulo-te  hoc-cnludn-  hoisonil-.daudon-. ace
qsol  e   cd to food proc-tadn..codI..at. dx dIsIteib-no.   Re.u.no-               Detlio   nnoce              utrib  are nt  _oparale  190.190  a
tan   a.  x  otd bn PuC hasa  on -i.tolnlcal nee ds fun- nou   "ct-              1i. s deos.                                                              -
nInL   so elh cnocldwoieannrconn               - epet-cr    body octe,n..  .t.           oae rnecI-Pnl  labor fona a .Pern---                  ; of .ota  .abot fnnot.
_aua_bod .land;196-5.f  197,ad17 dec.tiyicspretg.t  oa.ao   sc;160   91sd17   aa
goalee peataln. of nhlocc 10 fndat t~~~oud  he anneal orateEl                                 L Those  -tL.d-
Intl prtsssattooag    fo           fh ci. propose   by T    tteTId                        16.110. and 197)  -data. Toestlu   pfnt"ltpsnio fntertsc
itarld tod homey;  9th-nI, 175 ond li,fot;SDAp.  d    .     .i                  90.d2
aee.nd p I-'. l ere th oncth sro 7o tots a5e-Iug lo  sstdeo3ior-n   tes                     n   h  to    ao  tre
swiss date denloed  boa lifa tablet; 1960, 1070 and 1977~b den           Pncoyt    ...nInt
A(3 L h,Prcnoc   l  rlen tnneIoo  i   ca   odbnd 9fvindbyeaho
ota. pnthued  lcnt-.I     bldr1 ..ine  l          .      '1-     17     d   97dt.                  t Dl~,d4 -F  t.Paety -nrt tend. Ift-nt nerI.  cypTna -5 rAt 6    ad r
ShLI4 u(.I             jenet                xet-tta    ra    .Amel-Aeln  .p-srt   e-,  et   tthtinsaihltlot,i       e
hsaheeet rotla  (toal, utiso, sd octa) -withes dson hln  -- sone .e.ta ce       anr Ciowall  eaq-         dicfu.ecnralsnfo   oqtaesaI   n
teeercumn  leluds  ronodautaaaaar  o"unecte  hoc oontntI. Eanna-                  ffrabe
Osarcon  cthI  nc  rnecodhoeole,aptra  ad  anitr  all-                           c Patete0Otntw   ooet   yrsi 0-et(tPdeeoptar-  ehnen dre 
pocntae  tth  e  on-cItoLL      o c  n. tt .aluransew  sun-totaITalrBt taxtopoaopnot   oliceut401                                                   eaa etaia
fote,aMALcenioar   o   ieoe   lOetr   eeahceTanha                                              peroo-I--      tea f  I. tie   oontry   IIIle leosl  a. deeed  len c-t bs eUrs
Arc.,. t.- r n irre  It, .- t-t( tjcecont,t                                       P ..  Iy  W - --ruI        IhltO . l1 1 In-1ut"leht  ai-
a.i-n ot,t-rhot   r.e.   n  rolc  -rs.  .eea   t-                                                         oaatoet  ita  ln  laths
n-tI   I:d                                                  'C    I.tcoo 4.   ,..4h-   .i  its o-Ctowi   oa  ecaoPot.  -etIpran
et htw.aee.etcadstec.ulen   ssatt.oaussaxea   ortnc  sc aL,t.tllAes
ft eIte  0   tle  tests 11cc te.....                _



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
BCONOMIC IJDICAT5S
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT TX 1978
Average Annual Rate of Growth (S)
US$MlU.           %           1961-65            1966-70            1971-75           19T5-78
GNP at Market Prices                        36,o40          100.0           9.0wI              7.7T/            11.3~               9.1I
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment             10,905           30.3          11.3              11.2               11.2               11.9
Gross National Saving                       10,126           28.1
Current Account Balance                       -779            2.2
Export of Goods, NFS                         8,639           24.0           9 3U31           10.9W/I'           23.6a/ 3           11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                        9,174           25.5          10.79/            12.7 Ti/.          22.32IV            15.5 i11
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Net Value Added   /                Labor Force                       N.V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         S              Min              S                 US $                S
Agriculture                                   4.46           15.3           3.36             32.7               1.327              46.8
Industry                                     16.87           57.9           3.41             33.2               4,947             174.6
Construction                                  2.97           10.2           0,92              8.9               3,228             113.9
OtherP/                                       4.83           16.6           2.59             25.2               1,865              65.8
Total/Average                        29.13          100.0          10.28            100.0               2,834             100.0
GOVEMEN2T FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                               300.8           52.4
Total Expenditures                           299.3           52.1
Total Surplus                                  1.5            0.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions or Lei, end of year)
1975          1976          1977              1978
Money Supply                                 176.4          201.4        207.5              232.5
Short-Term  Bank Credit                      170.2          194.0        194.5              212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                   103.9          104.4        105.0              107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices            0.2            0.5           0.5               2.2
V   Growth rate of national income                                                                              ZENA CP1D
V  In current prices
G Growth rates of exports and import3 only.                                                                            X ?3, 1980
i  National income (S?.P methodology) and output of the non-productive sector.
2I Includes net output of the non-proluctive sector.



ANNYX I
-2e -  of 5 pages
BALANCE nF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)
1977                 1978                  1979
$m     Conv.(%)l/    gm    Conv.(%)I/   Sm         Conv.(E)I/         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1q7R
____    ._______              _____                                                                ITS$    Mln    2
Exports of Goods, NFS         7,357        55       8,728        52     10,094        59              Capital Goods                2,289        28
Imports of Goods, NFS         7,529        55       9,319        55     11,389        63              Consumer Goods               1,405        17
Resource Gap                   -172        75        -591       102     -1,295        99              Foodstuffs                     784        10
Interest Payments (net)        -132       108        -168       102       -358       101              Intermediate Goods             667         8
Balance of Current Account   -304          90       :759        103     -1,653       101              Raw Materials               2,qll         37
Industrial               (2,538)       32
MLT Borrowing                                                                                           Agriculrural                (373)        5
Disbursements                861        98       1,174       99       2,065        99                                          8,056       100
Amortization                -562        99       -586        99        -809        99
Net                          299        94        588        99       1,256        99              EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1979
MLT Lending                                                                                                                                UStMin
Disbursements                485        51        483        62         486        59              Total MLT                             5,564
Amortization                -127        44       -137        71        -177        57                of which convertible
Net                         -358        53       -346        58        -309        60                currencies                          5,467
Short-term Credit               256        69         487       94         981        99              DEBT SERVICE RATIO, Dec. 31, 1979          .
Net Errors and Ommissions         -         -         -13         7        -68        98                                -                        _
IMF                              38       100         -20       100         21       100              All Currencies, gross 2/                  12.3
IBEC                            101         -         103         -         96         -              All Currencies, net 3/                    6.6
Change of reserves              -32       100         -40       100       -324       100              Convertible Currencies, gross 2/          20.6
1977           1978           1979                          IBRD LENDING, December 31, 1979        USSMln
Imports of oil and oil products            875          1,218          2,051                          Outstanding and Disbursed               589.6
Exports of oil and oil products            688            746          1,744                          Undisbursed                             58e.7
Outstanding and UIndisbursed          1,170.3
EXCHANGE RATES
1.    Official Rate
Before August 1971                    6.0  Lei: US$l
August 1971-February 1973             5.53 Lei: US$S
February 1973-March 1978              4.97 Lei: US$1
Since March 1978                      4.47 Lei: US$1
2.    Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                   18.0  Lei: USS1
August 1971-February 1973            16.0  Lei: US$1
February 1973-October 1974           14.35 Lei: US$1
Since October 1972                   12.0  Lei: USt1
3.    Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973-March 1978                 20.0  Lei: USSl
Since March 1978                     18.0  Lei: USS1
Starting January 1981                15.0  Lei: US$S
1/  Convertible currency as a percentage of total.
2/  Debt service payments for credits received only.
3/ Net of debt service payment receipts for export credits extended.
August 20, 1980
EMENA CP1D



- 26
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of October 31, 1980)
US $ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                 Amount    (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                         280.0                    -
1083-RO    1975    BAFI a/                 Agricultural Credit    30.0                      1.5
1169-RO    1976    BAFI                    Flood Recovery           40.0                    1.6
1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank         Hydropower               50.0                    8.6
1247-RO    1976    BAFI                    Irrigation               60.0                    4.2
1368-RO    1977    BAFI                    Irrigation               60.0                   12.5
1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Bearings                 38.0                    7.1
1447-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Glass Fiber              18.1                    0.1
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Polyester                50.0                   10.2
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                    Agricultural Credit    71.0                     26.7
1509-RO    1978    BAFI                    Irrigation               40.5                   21.1
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Tire                     85.0                   50.8
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Post Earthquake          60.0                   34.3
1634-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Chemicals                40.0                   27.0
1651-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Pipe                     40.0                   38.6
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Thermal Power            70.0                   45.2
1669-RO    1979    BAFI                    Livestock                75.0                   46.5
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                    Irrigation               70.0                   70.0
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                    Livestock                85.0                   76.2
1794-RO    1980    Investment Bank         Canal                   100.0                   90.9
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                    Irrigation               90.0                   90.0
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                    Orchards                 50.0                   50.0
Total                                       1,502.6 c/               713.1
of which has been paid                         24.2
Total now outstanding                       1,478.4
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             15.1                4.7
Total now paid by Bank A/                   1,473.7
Total undisbursed                                                    713.1
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/ In addition, a $125 million loan for the Fourth Power Project and a $75 million
loan for the Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation (BBSP) Project are being
processed at the same time as this proposed loan.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION"/
Ln No. 1020         Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date% September 30, 1980
After initial delays due to changes in site and project scope, and
delays in design and construction, most plant units have been commissioned
during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant is delayed due to
slow delivery of local equipment and is now expected to be commissioned in
late 1980. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln No. 1027         Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975; Closing
Date; December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. More recent
delays have been caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured equipment.
The cold mill was commissioned in July 1979 and construction on the bar mill
is progressing somewhat behind contracted schedules with commissioning
expected in June 1980. Total project costs are expected to be essentially
equal to appraisal estimates. The project is expected to be fully completed
in 1980.  The loan is now fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1028        Turceni Thermal Power Project; USt6O Million Loan of Jul,
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness; November 6, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a 15-month delay in commissioning of
generating units. Project execution is otherwise according to plan, but in
connection with Turceni II some modifications in the coal handling equipment
mills are underway because the coal (lignite) was found to be harder and of.
poorer quality than originally expected. Training of future operational staff
is in hand. The loan is now fully disbursed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1083        Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Ln. No. 1169        Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40
Million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project execution is proceeding well except for the installation of
the flood warning equipment which has been slow. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1980 and installation will extend into 1981.
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation is expected to begin early in 1980. Project execution
is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works for the dam and
underground power station are well underway, and 100 percent of the loan
amount has been ommitted.
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28,.1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, six farms are completed
and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of total)
valued at over US$8 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts for all
equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is completed
while the silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is delayed. Work on soil erosion
control and the land levelling is behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 50 percent of pipe has been delivered.
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory. In 1979
about 18,000 ha have been irrigated. Works on surface and tile drains, land
levelling and soil erosion control works are behind schedule.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Contracts on virtually all major packages except one, have now been
signed and implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original
schedule. Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly over,
appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project look somewhat
more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook, improved
product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln. No. 1447        Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.1 Million of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank has
reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that procedures
undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under the
Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been eligible for disbursement has been cancelled. The
procurement of equipment for Section II (Spinning) financed by the Bank is
nearly completed. Start-up of this section has been delayed about 12 months
behind appraisal estimate. This is mainly due to civil construction delays
because of severe winter conditions and also delays in imported equipment
delivery and erection. Commissioning and three-shift operation is targeted
for June 1980.
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15. 1977; Date of Effectiveness.  October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily with production expected to begin in June
1980.
Ln. No. 1479        Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the development of a
large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection centers,
expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of slaughtering
and processing facilities. Project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, although disbursements are lagging 31 percent behind Plan
targets. Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment procurement
under ICB is almost complete.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1509        Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness._ May 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts were received in November and
December 1978, and almost all contracts have been awarded. Construction of
project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of irrigation
works have been completed.
Ln. No. 1536        Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is slightly behind
schedule with expected completion in the second quarter of 1980. The
Turnu-Severin plant (off-the-road tires) has been delayed 2 years mainly as a
result of difficulties in obtaining adequate responses from prospective
suppliers of the main technology and equipment package. The Romanian
Government is now at an advanced stage of negotiations with a prospective
supplier for the OTR package.
Ln. No. 1581        Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and contracting is around 70
percent complete. The pace of disbursement has also picked up in recent
months and is expected to be maintained. The enterprises assisted under the
loan generally recorded substantial output growth in 1979.
Ln. No. 1634        Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness; May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled, although partial commissioning of some units is delayed by a few
months. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln. No. 1651        Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.n Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of nine months procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract for the main technology package was signed in
November 1979 and other packages have been prepared for international
bidding. Site clearing started in May 1980. The project is expected to start
commercial operation in the first quarter of 1983.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for
implementation of both projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW
thermo-electric units have been placed. Procurement for about 3 percent of
the goods being financed from the loan is in process.
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and disbursements
are in line with appraisal forecasts. Tender documents for procurement of
construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment have been approved.
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project;
US$70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Bids for
procurement of equipment and material, under ICB, have been opened and are
being evaluated by the Borrower.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of December
17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1930; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is beginning. Tender documents for
procurement of construction materials have been approved subject to some
modifications.
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: (September 5,
1980); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The bidding process for both equipment and materials is proceeding on
schedule.
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Preparation of tender documents for procurement of equipment and
materials and initial execution of the project are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1876        Orchards Project; US$50 Million Loan of June 19, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This loan became effective only recently. No problems are
expected with the initial execution of the project.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
ROMANIA
LIVESTOCK IV (CATTLE) PROJECT
Summary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)        Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:                   12 months (May
1979-April 1980)
b)        Agency which has prepared the              Ministry of
project:                                  Agriculture and
Food Industry
c)        Date of first presentation to
the Bank, and date of first Bank
mission to consider the project:          May 1979
d)        Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                  April 10, 1980
e)        Date of completion of negotiations;        November 14, 1980
f)        Planned date of effectiveness:             March 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III: Special Conditions
Special conditions of the loan would be as follows;
Prior to disbursement for the following individual components, BAFI would
submit to the Bank for its approval:
(i)       details of the National Feed Analysis Service including an
implementation timetable, location of laboratories,
equipment, staffing and training (para. 52);
(ii)      a program and timetable for training and equipping the
Milking Machine Testing and Maintenance Service (para. 52).






IBRD 15142
.~~~~    ,.~~~~~~  $                          / ~~~~~SOCIALISTIC REPV%4t(C   F POMAIA:
/  I ~t*                   LIVESTOCK IVt                         ttIe) PROJECT
A,                         14~~~~~~~~~.                                 8 ~~~~OTO$AN I                            fP ecln.mnt
0                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SATU M A R E                    Eo~oMco
AL I A                                SUCEAVAA 
*                                                                AAOOEA                        OSA                             A   &eR F~~~~~~~AA n  Un4A
S A LAJ              BISTRITA-NASAUD                                         IA5
A  ,       .b~eCl
~~~~~~ ~~~~~N E A M T
O~~0000                                                                AALIJOA                                              A             Po71st  A 
BIHORAOM0 -
*EOA        CLUJ                                                       Pdro Neomr                                  0     C~rn~dAeGHITA
C.'                                                                                               AEJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BA      
A R A D  0 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0V~o
'L S 0 A                 A~~~ M AMV A   N AE                              A VSUI                                        dtCu         ndo 
S I B I U~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt~roi   Bwd~e
ARHUNED                             ARASA,
AL A    0A   F- -i            AL            F    ~     ~     ~     S          14
5'-.                                               S IBIU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A     ESA
AO 0 A           V I L C EA\                        P RAHOVA                                                  T~~~~~~~~~~0 
A                     BUZA~~~~~~~~~~~~I   ~ ~    RAI0 L
A~~~~~~~~~~ 
A A  ~        ~        RGS                                   E
TF,r- S--               AoIe                DMROTA0                                              L 
0~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A 
AA                           0                             O
~"y  C ALITI                ElO O*
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                        N    T
DF ROMANIA                       TELEORMAN                                       t                                                       44-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
AVIA  -0.  O0e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                          Al              ~               F     V W
-           -   >~~~~~.'~                                                                                            -Fm  rea;w-e
1.-    ~~~~~  .o4,eee00~~~~~~~~do0.,0  -    -- ~~~~~~~~~~   *UV~                           Q L
.fl~~~~~~~~~~etr0WwsWe0lOmnmwA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -



