                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00003342



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-78240 TF-91176)



                                   ON AN

                       ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                   FOR A

      JUSTICE SERVICES STRENGTHENING PROJECT – PHASE 1 (APL1)

       IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE JUSTICE SERVICES
                     STRENGTHENING PROGRAM



                                 June 8, 2015




Governance Global Practice
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 5, 2009)

                       Currency Unit = Peso (COP$)
                       COP $1.00 = US$ 0.000504796
                         US$ 1.00 = COP$ 1,981

                               FISCAL YEAR

                          January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adjustable Policy Loan
CONPES     Council of National Economic and Social Policy
          (El Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DNP       National Planning Department
         (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
PHRD      Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIJ        Ministry of Interior and Justice
NDP       National Development Plan
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective




                         Vice President: Jorge Familiar
                       Country Director: Gerardo Corrochano
         Senior Global Practice Director: Mario Marcel
                        Sector Manager: Arturo Herrera
                   Project Team Leader: Jorge Luis Silva
                      ICR Team Leader: Onur Erdem
                                     REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
                                 Justice Services Strengthening Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 30
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 31
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Justice Services
Country:                Colombia                Project Name:
                                                                          Strenghtening
Project ID:             P083904                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-78240,TF-91176
ICR Date:               04/29/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 20.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 18.55M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 20.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Judiciary of Colombia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/09/2006     Effectiveness:          05/16/2010           03/09/2010
                                                                                  03/27/2013
Appraisal:            11/04/2009     Restructuring(s):                            11/11/2013
                                                                                  06/25/2014
Approval:             12/17/2009     Mid-term Review:        08/15/2012           04/01/2013
                                     Closing:                12/31/2013           12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                                        100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to law and justice                                               15                  15
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                        85                  85

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:           Gerardo M. Corrochano                Gloria Grandolini
Practice
                            Arturo Herrera                       Nicholas Paul Manning
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:        Jorge Luis Silva                     David F. Varela
ICR Team Leader:            Onur Erdem
ICR Primary Author:         Onur Erdem


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to strengthen the capacity of the Judiciary and the
Ministry of Interior and Justice (MIJ) to deliver timely, efficient, effective and quality
dispute resolution services to citizens.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values        Target Years
                  Backlog in the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla, Bogota,
Indicator 1 :     Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali and Medellin reduced by approximately 300,000
                  cases resolved or archived (Number, Custom)
Value
quantitative or   1634000.00                 1334000.00                           547963.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/06/2009                 12/18/2009                           12/31/2014
Comments
                  Over-achieved. The current inventory of the civil, family and labor courts in the
(incl. %
                  six cities is 547,963 cases, reducing the number of cases by nearly 1,086,000.
achievement)
                  Productivity in the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla, Bogota,
Indicator 2 :     Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali and Medellin increased by an average of 50 cases
                  resolved per judge per year. (Number, Custom)
Value
quantitative or   600.00                     650.00                               989.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/06/2009                   12/18/2009                       12/31/2014
Comments          Over-achieved. The average number of cases resolved for the six cities included
(incl. %          in the Project was 989. Except from Bogota (average 638 cases per judge), the
achievement)      rest of the cities clearly exceeded the proposed target.
Indicator 3 :     Certified mediation centers provide services to 20,000 users (Text, Custom)
Value
quantitative or   0                          20000.00                             165000.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/06/2009                 12/18/2009                            12/31/2014
Comments          Over-achieved. The technical standard for quality and mediation centers has been
(incl. %          completed and delivered by ICONTEC. To date around 165,000 users have been
achievement)      attended (825%).
                  50 percent of the Judiciary staff in the civil, family and labor courts is trained and
Indicator 4 :     evaluated in accordance with the policies and processes developed under the
                  project. (Text, Custom)
Value
quantitative or 0                         50%                                 88.54%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                  12/18/2009                          12/18/2009
Comments
(incl. %        To date 1700 officers have been trained from a total of 1920.
achievement)
                Decentralized units in Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cali, Cartagena and
Indicator 5 :   Medellin provide services to 350,000 users.
                (Text, Custom)
Value           0                         350.000                             N/A
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    12/18/2009                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not measured.
achievement)
                Court users of civil, family & labor courts of report increased satisfaction levels
Indicator 6 : (up to 85 percent) in terms of the in terms of the quality, timeliness and
                effectiveness of services delivered. (Text, Custom)
Value
quantitative or 75%                         85%                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    12/18/2009                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not measured.
achievement)
                Court users of the civil, family and labor courts in report increased satisfaction
Indicator 7 : (up to 80 percent) in terms of accountability and
                transparency (Text, Custom)
Value
quantitative or 0                           80%                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    12/18/2009                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not measured
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                         Target Years
                 Management model operational in the 100 labor courts in Barranquilla, Bogota,
Indicator 1 :
                 Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali and Medellin. (Text, Custom)
Value
(quantitative   0                        100 courts                         102 courts
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                 12/18/2009                         12/31/2014
                The management model had to be adapted to the new General Judicial Process
Comments
                Code. Up to date, the model has been implemented in all the labor courts in
(incl. %
                Barranquilla, Bogotá, Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali and Medellin (102 courts,
achievement)
                100%).
                Management model operational in the 134 civil and family courts in
Indicator 2 : Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali and Medellin. (Text,
                Custom)
Value
                0                        134 courts                         380 courts
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                     12/18/2009                        12/31/2014
                The management model had to be adapted to the new General Judicial Process
Comments
                Code. Up to date, the model has been implemented in all the civil and family
(incl. %
                courts in Barranquilla, Bogotá, Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali and Medellin (380
achievement)
                courts, 283%).
                A new administrative management model is adopted by EJRLB, including a new
Indicator 3 :
                methodology for virtual training and applied legal research (Text, Custom)
Value                                        1 management
                                                                               1 management
(quantitative   0                            model
                                                                               model implemented
or Qualitative)                              implemented
Date achieved 11/06/2009                     12/18/2009                        12/31/2014
                The administrative management model has been adopted by the EJRLB. Model
Comments
                was delivered to the Administrative Chamber of the Superior Council of
(incl. %
                Judicature and was adopted by EJRLB in July 2013. The model started to fully
achievement)
                operate the 14th of November, 2013
                3 specific training modules to support the management model are operational and
Indicator 4 :
                benefit judicial staff (Text, Custom)
Value
(quantitative   0                            3 training modules                3 training modules
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                     12/18/2009                        12/31/2014
Comments        The design and development of 3 training modules have been implemented and
(incl. %        are operational (100%). The design of the models was contracted in 2012 and
achievement) implemented in 2013.
                New mechanisms and parameters are developed and approved by CSJ for the
Indicator 5 : evaluation of the Judiciary’s staff under the management model, and staff is
                evaluated accordingly (Text, Custom)
                                                                               Evaluation
                                             Evaluation                        parameters and
Value
                                             parameters and                    mechanisms was
(quantitative   0
                                             mechanisms                        implemented and
or Qualitative)
                                             developed                         used to evaluate
                                                                               1700 officers.
Date achieved 11/06/2009                     12/18/2009                        12/31/2014
Comments        The consultancy for the implementation of an evaluating mechanism has already
(incl. %        been presented to the magistrates of the Administrative Court. To date, 1700
achievement) officers have been evaluated.
Indicator 6 : Justice Services Map updated annually. (Text, Custom)
Value
                                             Map updated                       Map updated
(quantitative   0
                                             annually                          annually
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                     12/18/2009                        12/31/2014
Comments        Justice Services Map has been updated. The map includes the justice service
(incl. %        offer in the whole country, not only regarding jurisdictional offer but also
achievement) alternative dispute resolution methods.
Indicator 7 : First national basic unmet justice needs carried out. (Text, Custom)
Value           0                            Survey carried out                Survey carried out
(quantitative                                                                     in 2013
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    12/18/2009                            12/31/2014
                First national basic unmet justice needs survey was completed and its results
Comments
                were disseminated in August 23, 2013.
(incl. %
                The survey was applied to 5,866 persons in 14 cities (100%), with a trust level of
achievement)
                95% and error margin of 3%.
                13 decentralized facilities are operational in Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga,
Indicator 8 :
                Cali, Cartagena and Medellin. (Text, Custom)
Value                                       13 decentralized                      14 decentralized
(quantitative   0                           facilities                            facilities are
or Qualitative)                             operational                           operating
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    12/18/2009                            12/31/2014
                The refurbishing works have concluded, and the IT equipment and management
Comments
                models have been delivered. To date there are 14 operational facilities (2 in
(incl. %
                Barranquilla, 2 in Bogotá, 2 in Bucaramanga, 1 in Cartagena, 3 in Cali and 4 in
achievement)
                Medellin)
                50 mediation centers certified under the new quality standards norm (Text,
Indicator 9 :
                Custom)
                                                                  50 mediation
                                                                  centers         55 mediation
Value                                                             certified under centers have been
(quantitative   0                                                 the new         certified under the
or Qualitative)                                                   quality         new quality
                                                                  standards       standards norm.
                                                                  norm
Date achieved 11/06/2009                                          12/18/2009      12/31/2014
Comments        55 mediation centers have been certified, and the Project has also supported other
(incl. %        30 centers. The support to the other mediation centers consisted of the
achievement) presentation of good practices to improve performance in these centers.
                Judiciary establishes permanent user information offices to disseminate:
Indicator 10 : standards of accountability, transparency, competency and effectiveness
                applicable to justice sector; & (ii) citizens’ rights and duties (Text, Custom)
Value                                                                             14 permanent
                                            # of information
(quantitative   0                                                                 information offices
                                            offices established
or Qualitative)                                                                   were established.
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    12/18/2009                            12/31/2014
Comments        The Project exceeded the initial target of 5 information offices and established 14
(incl. %        permanent offices in Barranquilla (2 offices), Bogotá (2 offices), Bucaramanga
achievement) (2 offices), Cartagena (1 offices), Cali (3 offices) and Medellin (4 offices).

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/11/2010          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            0.00
  2     02/15/2011      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     1.00
                         Moderately              Moderately
  3    08/10/2011                                                             1.00
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  4    02/27/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.00
  5    11/05/2012       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  4.97
  6    06/25/2013       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 14.67
  7    12/29/2013       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 14.67
  8    06/28/2014       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 16.89
  9    12/12/2014   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                 18.55


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Changes in some of the
                                                     activities were made to adapt
                                                     the project to the needs of the
                                                     Judiciary given a new reform
 03/27/2013               S       S          14.67
                                                     process that included the
                                                     introduction of a New
                                                     Procedural Code. No changes
                                                     were made to the indicators.
                                                     Extended the closing date to
 11/11/2013               S       S          14.67
                                                     June 30, 2014.
                                                     Extended the closing date to
 06/25/2014               S       S          16.89
                                                     December 31, 2014.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Justice and citizen security have constituted the centerpiece of the evolution of the
Colombian state. Following a series of legal changes in the first half of the 20th century, a new
Constitution was adopted successfully in 1991. The new Constitution emphasized inclusiveness,
acknowledged indigenous people, introduced new rights, strengthened the Judiciary and sought a
more balanced distribution of powers, all to bring peace to a country long torn by violence.

2.       Providing for the three traditional branches of the government (executive, legislative and
judicial), the Constitution introduced a complex organization for the justice sector that continues
to characterize the sector today. From the Executive branch, the Ministry of Interior and Justice
(MIJ) articulates sector policies, with a particular focus on access to justice services. 1 The
Legislative branch engages in functions relating to the impeachment of high State officials. The
Judiciary is the backbone of the sector, and includes a Constitutional Court and Superior Judicial
Council that acts as the governing body of the Judiciary. The court system is divided into five
jurisdictions: ordinary, administrative, constitutional, peace, and indigenous communities.
Ordinary is the largest jurisdiction and encompasses criminal, civil, labor, family, and agrarian
cases. It is exercised by Municipal Courts, Circuit Courts, Superior Courts, and the Supreme
Court.

3.       The legal reforms that the new Constitution introduced included a right of the citizen to
protest the violation of his or her constitutional rights, provisions to accelerate the transition to an
accusatorial system of criminal justice, and the creation of out-of-court conflict resolution
mechanisms. The core objective of these initiatives was to address the historically complex nature
of legislation that emphasized form over substance, referred to as the “written system” of
conducting court procedures. Often confusing, with meticulous attention to detail and reliance on
written correspondence, the written system had made it difficult for lawyers to comply with its
requirements and overwhelmed the capacity of judges to respond to the citizens’ demands,
eroding citizen confidence in the sector and resulting in persistent backlogs in the court system.

4.      Major initiatives were introduced in 2005 and 2008, aimed at decongesting the court
system of these backlogs. The most important one was a gradual transition from the written
procedural system to oral in criminal, labor, civil, and family courts. The transition to the oral
system, while treated in the backdrop of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), eventually
became the crux of the Judiciary’s strategy to resolve persistent congestion in the court system,
impacting major project decisions during Project implementation.

5.       The failure of the justice system to respond to citizens’ demands in a timely and effective
manner, demonstrated by persistent backlogs in the court system and lack of decentralized access
to justice services, has been an important item on the Government’s development agenda. The
Vision Colombia Bicentennial 2019, the National Development Plan for 2006-2010, and the



1
  The Ministry of Interior and Justice underwent an institutional restructuring during the period
that the Project was implemented. Today, it is called the Ministry of Justice and the Law.



                                                   1
Judiciary Strategic Plan all emphasized the importance of consolidating a model of democratic
governance to bring effective justice services closer to citizens.

6.       Against this backdrop, the World Bank Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period
2008-2011 (Report No 42847-CO), under its “Peace Pillar”, aimed at helping the Government
strengthen the foundations for national reconciliation and lasting peace. The Peace Pillar
envisioned that the Project would support this objective by helping to remove real or perceived
barriers to access in the justice system, through improved court performance and enhanced access
to justice services. The CPS further envisioned, under its “State in the Service of its Citizens:
Efficient and Effective Government Pillar,” that the Project would support the authorities’ efforts
to improve services in the justice sector by scaling up the “management model” that had been
developed under the Judicial Conflict Resolution Improvement Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL) (P057369), a Bank funded effort implemented by the Judiciary that had closed in June 2006.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to strengthen the capacity of the
Judiciary and the Ministry of Interior and Justice (MIJ) to deliver timely, efficient, effective and
quality dispute resolution services to citizens.

8.       The PAD lists key project indicators as follows (as presented in the ICR datasheet):

     1. Backlog in the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cali,
        Cartagena and Medellin targeted by the project reduced by approximately 300,000 cases
        resolved or archived.
     2. Productivity in the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga,
        Cali, Cartagena and Medellin targeted by the project increased by an average of 50 cases
        resolved per judge per year.
     3. Certified conciliation/mediation centers provide services to 20,000 users.
     4. 50 percent of the Judiciary staff in the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla,
        Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cali, Cartagena and Medellin is trained and evaluated in
        accordance with the policies and processes developed under the Project.
     5. Decentralized units in Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cali, Cartagena and Medellin
        provide services to 350,000 users.
     6. Court users of the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga,
        Cali, Cartagena and Medellin report increased satisfaction levels (up to 85 percent) in
        terms of the quality, timeliness and effectiveness of the services delivered.
     7. Court users of the civil, family and labor courts of Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga,
        Cali, Cartagena and Medellin report increased satisfaction (up to 80 percent) in terms of
        accountability and transparency.


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

9.       There were no revisions to the PDO or key indicators during the life of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.    The main beneficiaries of the Project were citizens who would benefit from the
improvements in dispute resolution services triggered by the Project, as well as judges in civil,


                                                 2
family and labor courts of the six cities, whose productivity would improve as a consequence of
the infrastructure, training, and technical assistance activities provided by the Project.

1.5 Original Components

11.     Component 1 - Strengthening of judicial case management (US$ 11.48 million). The
objective of this component was to strengthen the managerial capacity of the Judiciary to improve
the performance of civil, family, and labor courts in Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cali and
Medellin. The activities to be financed under this component included:

    Subcomponent 1.1. Efficiency of justice services management (US$ 10.87 million)
    • Design of a management model for the selected courts aimed at reducing congestion and
       implementing oral procedures, based on the management model developed under the LIL
       for the circuit civil courts (Justicia XXI).
    • Implementation of the management model in the selected courts including remodeling
       and refurbishing of office space in existing court buildings.
    • Implementation of an M&E system for court performance focusing on quality and
       productivity, including the provision of the ICT infrastructure and training.
    • Screening of the case inventory of the selected courts, for the purposes of determining
       active and inactive backlogs, and reallocating inactive backlogs.
    • Design and implementation of automated procedures for delegation orders (despachos
       comisorios) in the civil courts of the city of Bogota, including the remodeling and
       refurbishing of office space in existing court buildings.

    Subcomponent 1.2. Communication systems between citizens and the Judiciary (US$ 0.61
    million)
    • Implementation of the Judiciary’s internal and external communications strategy to
        support the management model.
    • Establishment of administrative accountability mechanisms for judicial personnel, aimed
        at enhancing the role of users in the improvement of justice services.

12.     Component 2 – Development of judicial human resources (US$ 1.73 million). The
objective of this component was to develop the Judiciary’s human resources on the basis of
periodic performance evaluations and capacity building. The activities to be financed under the
second component included:

    Subcomponent 2.1. Judicial staff training (US$ 1.63 million)
    • Design of a new administrative management model for CSJ’s Judicial School (EJRLB),
       based on an evaluation of its current model.
    • Implementation of the new administrative management model for EJRLB, through the
       development of: (i) virtual training methodologies and contents (including the
       refurbishing of the EJRLB’s video-conference room); and (ii) a new program on applied
       legal research for judges.
    • Design and implementation of specific training programs to support the management
       model developed under Component 1 aimed at streamlining oral-based arguments.

    Subcomponent 2.2. Judicial staff performance evaluation (US$ 0.1 million)
    • Design and implementation of standard performance evaluation mechanisms and
       parameters for judicial personnel.



                                               3
13.      Component 3 - Facilitating access to justice services (US$ 2.67 million). The objective
of this component was to facilitate access to justice services by vulnerable groups, through the
generation and dissemination of reliable information, the extension of geographic coverage and
the strengthening of mediation services. The activities to be financed under this component
included:

    Subcomponent 3.1. For all justice services (US$ 0.52 million)
    • Strengthening of justice services supply-demand analysis tools, including:
          o Development of the technological platform to update the justice services map;
              and
          o Replication of the survey on basic unmet dispute resolution needs at the national
              level.

    Subcomponent 3.2. For formal justice services (US$ 1.86 million)
    • Design and implementation of decentralization strategies for the management model in
       the selected courts, to facilitate:
       o Decentralization of the provision of selected justice services (e.g. filing/service of
           process, submissions of claims/counterclaims, written pleadings, etc.) in partnership
           with other State agencies; and
       o Physical decentralization of court offices through office remodeling and
           refurbishment of office space in existing buildings to provide accessible service entry
           points to citizens, including user information kiosks.

    Subcomponent 3.3. For alternative dispute resolution mechanisms (US$ 0.29 million)
    • Strengthening of mediation services, through:
       o Development of a technical quality norm for mediation centers services; and
       o Implementation of the technical quality norm in selected mediation centers.

14.     Component 4 – Project coordination (US$ 0.81 million). The objective of this
component was to achieve successful Project implementation, through standard Project
coordination, and specific M&E activities. The activities to be financed under this component
included the operation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for administrative,
financial management, procurement and operational activities; and Project M&E.

1.6 Revised Components

15.      There were no official revisions to the original Project components in the three
restructurings that took place during the life of the Project.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.      The first restructuring, performed in March 2013, introduced a reallocation of loan
proceeds to respond to the evolving Government priorities, in particular to allow for the adequate
financing of the Justice Services Map to be implemented by the Ministry of Justice and the
initiation of the e-justice initiative in the civil and commercial courts of Colombia’s six major
cities. The second restructuring, approved in November 2013, extended the Project closing date
by six months to allow the Project to reorient its activities to support the Judiciary’s introduction
of the New Procedural Code, which brought the transition to the oral system. The reorientation of
the activities under the first and second restructuring did not require a change in the legal
description of the project components. The third restructuring, which took place in June 2014,



                                                 4
extended the Project closing date for another six months, in order to allow for the completion of
the initiatives launched during the second restructuring and the preparation of a follow on project
as had been anticipated in the PAD.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.      The PAD reflects country priorities as established in official Government and Bank
documents, previous assistance activities supported by the Bank and other donors in the sector,
and a comprehensive follow up diagnostic of the Justice sector that was performed during project
preparation. The PDO stemmed from the strategic priorities set forth in the Vision Colombia
Bicentennial 2019, the National Development Plan for 2006-2010, and the Judiciary Strategic
Plan, as well as the different pillars of the World Bank CPS for the period 2008-2011 (Report
No 42847-CO) that related to justice and security. The decision to focus Project activities on
civil, family, and labor courts rather than criminal courts was made based on the fact that to date,
most reform efforts, including those traditionally supported by the donor community, had targeted
criminal justice, with positive results in terms of improved court and case management that had
left similar types of success desirable in non-criminal courts.

18.       The technical orientation of the Project around consolidating and instituting an integrated
management model in the court system as the primary means to improve court performance
originated from the Judiciary’s request to scale up the preliminary results of the Judicial Conflict
Resolution Improvement LIL (P057369), the Bank’s earlier (and first) project with the Judiciary.
Initial results of the LIL had suggested promising reductions in backlogs, partly attributable to the
new management model that the project had introduced. The lessons learned from this loan
informed the preparation of the Project, which, at the request of the Judiciary, was undertaken
through a follow up diagnostic of the sector funded through a grant through the Japan Policy and
Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD).

19.     The lessons learned from the LIL, and later the diagnostic performed through the Japan
PHRD Grant, provided a robust basis for Project preparation. Despite this advanced level of
analysis, the ICR rates Quality at Entry as moderately satisfactory. The ICR observes, with the
benefit of hindsight, that the Project’s PDO may have been too broad and that the link between
Project outcomes and the activities to be financed was not always entirely clear. Moreover, in
various places the PAD included language that set out to promise the achievement of rather broad
goals that in one way or another sounded different than the official PDO, burdening the Project
with ambitious promises in a historically complex sector. In this sense, the PAD promised a
comprehensive reform effort, one that would not only “strengthen the capacity of the Judiciary
and the Ministry of Justice to deliver timely, efficient, effective and quality dispute resolution
services to citizens,” but also “lessen the effects of an expected economic downturn on economic
players under financial distress,” “advance law-based policies and practices for the resolution of
cases that have economic impact,” and “produce swifter enforcement of contracts.”

20.      On the other hand, an examination of the logic behind the design of Project Components
suggests that the majority of these goals were expected to be achieved by interventions through
the first Component, the institutionalization of the integrated management model. In this sense,
considerable expectations were built into not only the premise that the institution of the
management model would be the ideal means to enhance timeliness, efficiency, effectiveness,
and quality in the court system, but also that the management model would be implemented


                                                 5
successfully across six major cities. This premise does not seem well-anchored in a solid
foundation, as the PAD itself indicated that the positive results observed in backlog reductions
after the LIL were only partly attributable to the management model, which falls short of
definitive evidence.

21.      The rationale for the chosen lending instrument, Adaptable Program Loan (APL), also
placed a heavy role on the potential impact of the management model in streamlining court
performance. A lending instrument that is now under the Investment Project Financing instrument
as a Series of Projects type of investment operation, the APL was an instrument at the time of
Project preparation that enabled a programmatic approach to investments over the medium-term.
Through this mechanism, the successful completion of the Project would trigger the preparation
of the second phase of the program (i.e. a second APL). The conditioning of the second phase on
the successful achievement of the PDO further intensified the expectations from and dependence
on the management model’s success under the Project.

22.      Finally, the implementation arrangements introduced in the last Component would later
lead to significant delays in project implementation. It was conceived originally that a single
Project Management Unit (PMU) would manage the implementation of the reform efforts
supported by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) in the Judiciary,
where the cost of sustaining the PMU would be shared between the two institutions. Project
management experience suggests, however, that such efforts to coordinate donor support often
lead to implementation delays, largely based on the difficulties that PMUs face in harmonizing
their practices across the different requirements of different international financial institutions. In
the case of the Project, these differences led to a delay of about one and a half years before the
activities could commence.

23.     Project preparation included an extensive treatment of critical risks to Project success.
The risks identified included political economy considerations and factors relating to resistance to
change and lack of coordination across different units and institutions. The Project aimed at
mitigating these risks through an explicit orientation of the Project around reforming those
operational aspects of court management that were deemed to be non-controversial.

24.      What the PAD did not seem to have considered, however, was the possibility of
comprehensive changes in legal codes, which would have inevitably had consequences for the
procedural aspects of court management that the Project was preparing to influence. In this
context, the Project seems to have tied its hands further by indexing its success to the definitive
implementation of the integrated management model, especially in an environment that was in
flux as it set out to transition from the written system of conducting court procedures to the oral.

2.2 Implementation

25.     The Loan Agreement was signed in February 2010. From this point onwards,
coordinating the operations of the two justice sector reform projects, one supported by the World
Bank and the other by the IADB, presented challenges that effectively blocked the
commencement of activities. The PMU could not be staffed fully during this period. As these two
projects had entered the medium-term planning instrument (CONPES) of the National Planning
Department (DNP) together in the form of an integrated program aimed at reforming the justice
sector, separating them implied a bureaucratic process that further caused delays. These
challenges were eventually overcome, the projects separated, and the Project commenced
implementation by mid-2011, representing an overall delay of almost one and a half years since
the time of signing the loan.


                                                  6
26.      At that stage, all anticipated public works, equipment purchases, and consultancies began
to be contracted, executed, and completed with remarkable speed and efficiency. Outcome
indicators started showing the expected results, with all indicators on course to achieving and in
some cases exceeding the anticipated targets. In 2012, the Project was featured as an exemplary
project in the National Plan of the DNP. By December 2013, one year before the revised closing
date of the Project, a high percentage of all planned activities had been completed, and the Project
was on its way to achieving the results set forth in the PAD as triggers for the design of the
second programmatic phase.

27.      By the time the Project picked up steam in 2011, the gradual introduction of the oral
system to non-criminal courts was a certainty and the Judiciary was already in the process of
formulating its transition plan. The consultancies that the Project contracted for the elaboration of
the integrated management model found themselves in an environment that was relatively
uncertain in terms of what the operational implications of the gradual transition to the oral system
would be. The transition to the oral system in the execution of the legal code, along with the
official introduction of the policy of “decongestion” aimed at fast-tracking certain cases that had
been in the backlog for some time, became the landmark initiatives that constituted the core of the
Judiciary’s efforts to improve the performance of the court system. Faced with this reality, Project
components reoriented themselves to adapt to and complement these initiatives.

28.      Facing these structural changes that had not been anticipated during Project preparation,
the PMU gradually adjusted its approach from a definitive development and comprehensive
institution of an integrated management model to facilitating the transition of the non-criminal
court system to the oral system in the six cities. While consultancies to define and develop an
integrated management model were executed, the products did not go much farther than
becoming reference documents as the Judiciary itself struggled with managing the dynamics of
this comprehensive reform process across the country. Through two restructurings in 2013, the
Project reallocated loan proceeds towards investments in infrastructure, equipment and training to
support the Judiciary’s technological reform agenda as well as its introduction of the New
Procedural Code, which formalized the transition to the oral system. Aligning itself with the
Judiciary’s reform agenda, the Project invested in refurbishing buildings to accommodate court
rooms and hearings, the purchase and installation of the associated audio, video, and IT
equipment, and the training of Judiciary personnel.

29.     One other major factor that impacted implementation took place in the context of the
Project’s emphasis on the decentralization of selected justice services, under Component 3. Here,
the Project ran into considerable challenges as the Judiciary had to negotiate extensively with the
selected municipalities regarding finding locations and getting the necessary permissions for
opening the new service centers. The Judiciary also faced challenges finding and appointing
judges to these centers. As a result, most of these service centers only became fully operational in
the last year of the Project, which makes measuring citizen satisfaction with these services
challenging. Initial statistics on usage by citizens in many of these centers, however, are signaling
an upward trend, and the judges interviewed related anecdotal evidence of citizen satisfaction.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

30.      Colombia has a rich tradition of utilizing data in development planning and
implementation. The Project rightly chose from the beginning to build on the Judiciary’s ongoing
efforts in data-driven performance improvement, and incorporated into its M&E framework
progress indicators towards which the Statistics Department of the Judiciary had already been


                                                 7
collecting information routinely. This was particularly true for Component 1, where Project
interventions were expected to lead to improvements in the timeliness, efficiency and quality of
justice services, and the progress towards this outcome was designed to be measured through
backlog and case clearance rates, two indicators for which historical information across the
country was available through the Judiciary.

31.      Despite this effort to build on already existing data platforms, the ICR finds the M&E
framework for the Project moderately unsatisfactory. Key outcome indicators are a combination
of outcome, output and qualitative indicators that while at first sight offer reasonable insights on
the direction of progress, do little to attribute the impact of the Project towards the achievement
of that progress.

32.      A closer look at the key outcome indicators will help explain this point. While it seems
that the Project expected to measure court performance (a proxy for timeliness and efficiency of
conflict resolution services) primarily through the two outcome indicators on backlog and case
clearance rates (key outcome indicators 1 and 2), these indicators were based on generic ones for
which data was already being collected by the Judiciary. Backlog and case clearance rates are
influenced by a number of factors, and to expect that any major improvements in these rates were
going to be clearly attributable to the impact of the Project would have been overly optimistic.
Indeed, as the ICR will elaborate further under Section 3: Assessment of Outcomes, while
throughout the life of the Project these indicators showed considerable improvements, which
translated into “satisfactory” ratings in ISRs, a closer examination of the backlogs during this
period reveals trends that possibly correlate with factors that the Project influenced only
indirectly.

33.     The other key elements of the PDO, namely the effectiveness and quality of justice
services, were to be measured primarily through user satisfaction surveys (key outcome indicators
6 and 7). Satisfaction surveys can be costly exercises, and finding clear trends in service quality
requires repeated observations over time. The Project’s infrastructure, equipment and
management-related interventions were undoubtedly going to take time to be completed and to
bear fruit, limiting the scope and available time period for such surveys. In the end, these surveys
could not be carried out.

34.     The other three key outcome indicators aren’t really outcome indicators but rather output
indicators. While valuable in their own right and clearly important outputs that would have been
the direct products of the interventions anticipated under Project Components 2 and 3, the
training of judges and the physical establishment of decentralized service centers in and of
themselves should probably not have constituted key Project outcome indicators.

35.      The flaws in the design of the M&E framework had consequences for its implementation
and utilization. The first two indicators were regularly updated based on data received directly
from the Statistics Department of the Judiciary, but seem to have offered little use in informing
implementation decisions, as the ICR could find no perceivably direct link between Project
interventions and the nature of the data being collected. The indicators based on satisfaction
surveys were never updated as these surveys were never realized. And the updating of the output
indicators regarding the establishment of decentralized service centers came with a lag (and in
some cases not measured) as this Component faced implementation delays. In any case, the target
for this indicator seems to have been based primarily on the general populations of the areas
where the centers were expected to be built – in that sense, once the center was built and
operational, it would technically be providing services to virtually any number of citizens, thus
signaling the successful achievement of this outcome, whereas this “outcome” in itself does not


                                                 8
mean much for the actual number of citizens visiting and benefiting from these center, neither the
quality of the services offered.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.      No issues were observed in safeguard compliance. Financial management performance
was assessed moderately unsatisfactory during the early stages of the project implementation, but
adequate corrective measures were taken by the client, leading to a satisfactory rating for the rest
of the Project. Audit reports were submitted on time and did not signal issues. Similarly,
acceptable interim unaudited financial reports were submitted regularly and in line with the loan
agreement. Procurement performance was rated moderately satisfactory for the life of the
project, except in the first ISR, which was due initially to the delay in contracting a Procurement
Specialist and later to weaknesses in procurement planning and execution as noted previously.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.      The primary objective of Component 1 was absorbed fully into the overall reform
program of the Judiciary. Going forward, the Judiciary plans to develop a “unified management
model,” one that integrates the model for non-criminal courts and the model that had been under
development in parallel for the high courts. The decision to reorient organizational reform
towards the development of a “unified management model,” (and the software associated with it,
which would replace the case management system currently in place), was made in the middle of
the Project, around the same time as the Judiciary was strengthening its efforts to transition to the
oral system. At the time of writing this ICR, the Judiciary had a concrete transition plan to the
oral system for all non-criminal courts, as well as a relatively well-developed conceptual idea of
what it expected from a “unified management system.”

38.      While the ICR team confirmed the Judiciary’s plans to continue its efforts towards
improving organizational efficiency, at the time of drafting this ICR there was no evidence of a
concrete financing plan which would help the Judiciary achieve these plans. The ICR observed
that the Judiciary had been counting heavily on the second phase of the APL, which, as described
above under Project design, had been the original plan and therefore built into expectations from
the beginning.

39.      As the Project achieved the triggers for the design of a second phase, the Government
requested additional financing for the continuation and scaling up of activities beyond the closing
date of the Project. By November 2014, one month before the official closing of the Project, Bank
management had decided to no longer pursue the additional financing request. This decision was
made on the basis that the technical nature of the activities and the desired outcomes that the
program documents described justified the consideration of a new investment lending operation
rather than an additional financing request to continue the same project. Moreover, it was decided
that the size of the additional financing request, at $20 million, did not align fully with the current
World Bank strategy in the country. Consequently, the Project proceeded to closing, and the Bank
team entered discussions with the Judiciary, MIJ and World Bank leadership regarding the
possibility of designing a new investment lending operation. At the time of writing this ICR, no
concrete plans had been made regarding a new project, although discussions were underway.
Given the relevance of the original PDO in Colombia, and the positive momentum achieved in
justice sector reform over the past several years, the ICR recommends continued dialogue that
focuses not only on strengthening case management as interventions traditionally have, but also,




                                                  9
and perhaps more importantly, the decentralization of justice services, which the ICR team
observes has the greater potential to benefit the citizens in the short to medium term.

40.     With regards to the sustainability of the public works and the equipment purchased under
the Project, the ICR has observed that the infrastructure has been fully integrated into the
Judiciary’s routine maintenance plans, which should ensure their longevity.

41.     The Judiciary has a relatively robust M&E framework to collect statistics, especially on
case clearance performance. The ICR expects that the interventions financed under the Project
will continue to contribute to the Judiciary’s reform agenda, whose overall performance is
monitored through this M&E framework.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High

42.     Judging by the development priorities and circumstances prevailing at the time of the
ICR, including the Project’s consistency with current country and Bank strategies, the ICR finds
the Project highly relevant.

43.     In December 2010, the Government launched an ambitious new National Development
Plan (NDP), called Prosperity for All 2010–2014. The overarching goals of the NDP were to
increase employment, reduce poverty, and improve security. The NDP had three main objectives:
Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness, Equality of Opportunities for Social Prosperity, and
Consolidation of Peace. It highlighted four cross-cutting themes: Relevance of International
Relations, Environmental and Disaster Risk Management, Good Governance, and Regional
Development and Integration.

44.     In the years leading up to the development of the NDP, including the period during which
the Project was prepared, Colombia had taken significant steps toward the consolidation of peace.
The difficulties Colombia’s judicial system faced in contributing to the consolidation of the peace
process continue to be acknowledged widely, and efforts to strengthen peace and security in the
new NDP stem from a broader initiative involving the whole of Colombian society, promoting a
citizenship culture based on respect for peaceful coexistence and human rights, and strengthening
and holding accountable democratic institutions and the justice system.

45.     Coinciding with the priorities established in the NDP, the Bank’s CPS for the period
2012-2016 had three strategic themes: Expanding Opportunities for Social Prosperity; Sustainable
Growth with Enhanced Climate Change Resilience; and Inclusive Growth with Enhanced
Productivity. Each of these strategic themes had three areas of results with specific outcomes,
which included improved citizen security.

46.     Against this backdrop, the Project’s development objectives, as well as its design and
implementation, remain highly relevant. The design of project interventions around the institution
of procedural and systematic improvements to facilitate access to justice, and their
implementation taking into account the evolving nature of the reform agenda in this context,
continue to be the desired way forward for reforming the judicial sector in Colombia. This is
demonstrated by the Judiciary’s continuing commitment to advancing its decongestion policies,



                                                10
transition to the oral system, and expansion of decentralized justice service centers across the
country.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Substantial

47.     Despite recent advances in the literature, assessing the impact and efficacy of governance
and public sector interventions continues to be a challenging exercise. Short of historical data and
resources to conduct a full-fledged impact assessment, the ICR team adopted a combination of
approaches to assess Project efficacy. These approaches included 1) an analysis of the Project’s
most relevant key outcome indicators, 2) the Economic and Financial Analysis included in the
PAD, 3) the Project’s midterm review, and 4) an examination of the “triggers” from the PAD that
had been established as conditions for the design of the second phase.

48.      Analysis of the Project’s key outcome indicators. The positive trends that the ISRs
observed in all key outcome indicators (except for those not measured), point towards the
successful achievement of the PDO. And for the unmeasured indicators that were to be based on
user satisfaction surveys, anecdotal evidence that the ICR team collected from judges in key cities
and the decentralized service centers that the team visited, the case processing data that the team
observed in the decentralized service centers, as well as brief interviews conducted with users of
the decentralized service centers all signaled positive trends in usage and user satisfaction with
the services provided. Judges and users alike seemed particularly satisfied with the reduction in
case processing times, the opportunity to appear before a judge, and the ability to process routine
cases without having to travel to big cities.

49.       The ICR team performed an analysis of the case processing data for the period 2009-2014
first as a sum of total inventory in all six cities, an indicator that the Project had chosen as key. In
addition to basing the analysis on a combination of all three different types of court cases that the
Project set out to impact (civil, family and labor), which had shown considerable improvements
during implementation, the team disaggregated the data by case type, presented in the chart below.




                                                  11
This analysis yielded an interesting result: the majority of the improvements in case load during
this period seems to have been influenced by the dramatic change in case processing rates for
civil cases.

50.      Interviews that the ICR team conducted with judges across the three different cities
visited during the ICR missions (Bogota, Medellin, and Bucaramanga), as well as those
conducted with Judiciary counterparts, suggest that the majority of the improvements observed in
civil case inventory during this period was due to the “decongestion” policies that the Judiciary
had introduced. The decongestion policies made it easier for judges to fast-track, resolve, or drop
certain cases based on their nature and the time the case had been in the court system. In family
and labor courts, judges attributed the majority of the improvements in case processing to the
transition to the oral system, which had reduced processing times dramatically, in many cases
from an average of two years to a few months. Since the transition to the oral system has been
gradual and so far partial, it is not surprising that the full effect has not been observed yet.
Against this backdrop, the ICR concludes that the reorientation of Project Components during this
period enabled the Project to complement the Judiciary’s efforts to establish the physical
infrastructure and human capacity required to transition to the oral system, which in turn
contributed positively to a reform process that has already shown strong potential to reduce
backlog issues and improve the timeliness and the quality of justice cervices.

52.     The Economic and Financial Analysis (EFA) included in the PAD. The EFA from the
PAD makes a reference to the Project’s potential to contribute positively to the governance
agenda by “providing the powerful deterrents of permanent transparency and accountability
mechanisms.” It also points out the Project’s potential impact on doing business by increasing
business confidence and reducing the time and cost of contract enforcement.

53.      While the links between the regulatory environment and the business climate is clear, the
ICR team has not been able to find a perceivably direct link between Project interventions and
improvements in the business environment. The 2015 Doing Business report ranks Colombia 168
in enforcing contracts, at 1,288 days. This is the same number of days as in the 2014 report,
which ranked the country 167. For the previous four years there is no ranking available, and the
number of days was steady at 1,346. There is no particular information about enforcement of
contracts in the main cities of Colombia. The subnational data available only includes information
on starting a business, dealing with construction permits, registering property, and paying taxes.
Against this backdrop, the team finds it difficult to assess the Project’s potential impact on
business climate.

54.     On the other hand, the team observes that the primary impact of this Project has been an
increase in the overall efficiency, timeliness, effectiveness, and quality of dispute resolution
services. In this sense, the more relevant measure of the return on the investment would be the
efficiency gains in courtroom operations, which, as the EFA in the PAD claimed, would allow for
a more cost-effective allocation of resources.

55.      The EFA in the PAD states that justice sector investments are not “subject to
conventional financial analysis since a substantial part of their outcomes are difficult or
impossible to measure, and are more related to critical social values like legitimacy of, and
confidence in, State institutions.” While this statement is valid, there have been considerable
advances in recent years in attempting to quantify the impact of policy interventions in
institutional reform. Colombia’s own process of collecting and analyzing rigorously case
management data is an example of an attempt to understand and inform policy and its impacts on
citizen welfare in the justice sector.


                                                12
56.      While an impact analysis of this nature has been beyond the capacity and scope of this
ICR effort, the team has attempted to calculate the sample, average savings achieved in the
system during this period, through anecdotal evidence from interviews with judges and other
Judiciary stakeholders (see Text Box). The fact that the transition to the oral system has in many
cases reduced average case processing times from two years to a few months in itself is a
substantial, promising outcome. Furthermore, the establishment of decentralized service centers,
which      constitute    relatively
inexpensive      investments     in              Average Savings in Case Processing
infrastructure,     are    already
reducing significantly the legal The implementation of the oral system started in
fees and the transportation costs Colombia in January 2013. Of the six cities that the
that citizens would have had to Project focused on, two had started implementing the oral
incur under the old system, where system fully since that date (Cali and Barranquilla), while
                                      its implementation is still underway in other cities. To
they would have had to perform
                                      identify the sample average savings per court during this
even the most routine transactions period, the team used as basis the civil circuit courts in
by traveling to a city and finding Cali. The team first calculated the average cost of
legal intermediaries to help them processing a case before the introduction of the oral
process their paperwork.              system, dividing the total annual operating costs of one
                                        civil circuit court (COP$432,458,204 or approximately
57.      The Project’s Midterm         US$180,000) by the average final case inventory from
Review. The DNP commissioned 2009 to 2012 (928), yielding an approximate average cost
an independent midterm review of       of COP$466,011 or US$195 per case. The team then
the Project, which was carried out calculates the difference between the 2013 and 2014 final
                                       inventories to find the additional number of cases that
in 2013 by G Exponencial and
                                       were processed after the introduction of the oral system.
Ipsos Napoleon Franco and was The case inventory decreased by 474 cases during this
reflected in the Bank’s midterm period, signaling savings around US$92,000 per court per
review report. This detailed year. While simplistic in its methodology, these
independent midterm review calculations point to significant potential savings,
assesses the relevance, operational considering that the Project impacted 234 courts across
efficiency and implementation six cities during their transition to the oral system.
progress of the various contracts
and activities executed under the Project. The review at first sight fails to identify a direct, causal
connection between the activities of the Project and the positive results that the Judiciary
achieved in case clearance rates during that period. Nevertheless, the review acknowledges the
impressive execution progress that the Project achieved especially once the PMU became fully
operational, finds that the nature of the activities being executed were in line with the original
objectives of the Project, and validates the emphasis that the Project had begun placing on
supporting the Judiciary’s decongestion policies and transition to the oral system.

58.     Achievement of the “triggers” for the design of the second phase. The APL approach
adopted for the design of this Project included the formulation of triggers, whose achievement
would justify the preparation of the second phase of the program. The Project team prepared its
additional financing request based on the successful achievement of these triggers, which
included:

Trigger                                  Achieved?            Comments
Management model implemented in          Yes                  While a Project-sponsored
234 civil, family and labor courts in                         integrated management model did
Bogota, Barranquilla, Bucaramanga,                            not fully materialize in the form
Cali, Cartagena and Medellin                                  that had been anticipated originally,


                                                  13
Performance M&E system                    Yes               the reorientation of Project
implemented in the 234 courts that                          Components during restructurings
operate the management model                                enabled the Project to complement
                                                            the Judiciary’s efforts to establish
                                                            the physical infrastructure and
                                                            human capacity required to
                                                            transition to the oral system and the
                                                            implementation of the management
                                                            and performance M&E procedures
                                                            it brought about.
Case inventory screening completed        Yes
in the 573 courts that will operate the
management model
First national unmet basic justice        Yes               The results of the first demand for
services survey completed                                   justice services survey was
                                                            extremely well-received, and
                                                            yielded important insights for the
                                                            Ministry of Justice’s ongoing
                                                            strategy of and plans to continue
                                                            the expansion of alternative dispute
                                                            resolution services, a key objective
                                                            under the National Development
                                                            Plan. The Ministry of Justice
                                                            updated this first survey the
                                                            following year, an indication of the
                                                            usefulness of the first initiative.
Design of the special access module       Yes
to facilitate decentralization
completed
Technical quality norm for                Yes
conciliation centers approved
70% of the proceeds of APL 1              Yes
disbursed

59.     The systematic achievement of these triggers for the design of a second phase, as
validated through Bank supervision, further exemplifies the indirect outcomes that the Project
substantively impacted, which are not captured by the Project’s PDO or the M&E framework.

60.  Deconstructing the PDO against this backdrop, Project efficacy can be
summarized as follows:

“Strengthening the capacity of the Judiciary and the Ministry of Interior and Justice to deliver
timely, efficient, effective, and quality dispute resolution services to citizens..”
Elements Achieved?            Comments
of PDO
Timely       Substantially Interviews with judges consistently confirmed a dramatic reduction
                              in typical case processing times, from an average of two years to a
                              few months, as a result of the transition to the oral system.
Efficient Substantially The refurbishing of buildings to accommodate court rooms, the
                              building of decentralized justice centers, and the introduction of IT,


                                                14
                            audio and video equipment through the Project have facilitated
                            significantly case management under the new system.
Effective   Substantially   While citizen satisfaction could not be measured under the Project,
Quality     Moderately      ad hoc interviews with users and anecdotal evidence that the ICR
                            team collected indicated initial and growing satisfaction with the
                            effectiveness of the services offered under the new system,
                            including in the decentralized service centers. Citizens interviewed
                            appreciated especially the opportunity to appear before a judge in
                            person, a situation that was uncommon under the old system, as
                            well as the speed with which routine procedures were being
                            resolved. In this context, while the ICR team has been able to make
                            an informed judgment regarding the substantial achievements in the
                            effectiveness of the Judiciary’s interventions, the lack of
                            information regarding service quality per se leads the team to judge
                            the “quality” aspect of the PDO as moderate.

61.      Based on these findings, the ICR observes substantial efficacy in the ability of the
Project to achieve the objectives premised in the PDO.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderate

62.      The costs involved in achieving Project objectives seem reasonable in comparison with
recognized norms (“value for money”). All contracts were executed in line with Bank guidelines,
and the resulting outputs seem in line with modern standards that would be reasonably expected
from similar public works, refurbishments and equipment. The first Bank team, which led the
design and the initial stages of implementation, noted that the client’s insistence on purchasing
rather than leasing the IT equipment anticipated in the Project may have resulted in unnecessarily
large costs for the Judiciary in the long run. Bank experience suggests that particularly in
countries where the public sector does not have an efficiency-driven culture of maintenance of
equipment, there is a case to be made for leasing rather than purchasing IT equipment for public
sector use. While in this particular case the ICR does not see a reason to argue that Project
efficiency was greatly compromised, the team feels that this is a valid point that warranted closer
consideration during implementation.

63.     In the absence of economic rate of return estimates emanating from an Economic and
Financial Analysis, the ICR team has attempted to assess the Project’s efficiency through an
analysis of cost per unit of output.

Component                       Original Budget                  End of Project
Component I                     $ 21.510.000                     $ 21.501.139
Component II                    $ 1.730.000                      $ 1.807.145
Component III                   $ 2.670.000                      $ 3.242.584
Component IV                    $ 1.180.000                      $ 3.420.955

64.     As a proxy for “output,” the ICR takes the average operational savings per court
(US$92,000), which was utilized under the efficacy section above, with the assumption that
operational savings are desired outputs that signal more efficiency in the court system, a key
Project outcome. Considering that the Project impacted 234 courts across six cities, and spent


                                                15
US$29,971,823 in total, average “spending” per court was approximately at $128,000, which is
still greater, but not too far from, the average operational savings achieved per court during this
period. It should also be noted in this context that Component IV of the Project, which financed
project management and is as such more removed from directly influencing Project outcomes,
overspent considerably compared to its original budget. Against this backdrop, the ICR rates the
Project moderately efficient.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

65.      The ICR rates the Project highly relevant and moderately efficient, and observes
substantial efficacy in its ability to achieve the expectations premised in the PDO. Based on the
harmonized evaluation criteria for ICR and IEG evaluations, the ICR suggests an overall outcome
rating of moderately satisfactory for the Project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

66.     The Judiciary has absorbed all Project activities into its reform agenda. The public works
and the equipment purchased under the Project have been fully integrated into the Judiciary’s
routine maintenance plans, and the decentralized service centers are becoming a centerpiece of
the Judiciary’s access to justice reform strategy.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

67.      The ICR finds the detailed level of analysis performed to inform Project preparation
highly satisfactory, but observes that the PDO was too broad and originally relied too heavily on
the potential successful implementation of the management model. Furthermore, the decision to
establish a single PMU that would manage the implementation of the reform efforts supported by
the World Bank and the IADB caused significant delays.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

68.      The Bank was consistently responsive to the needs of the Judiciary in general and the
PMU in particular. There is reason to believe, however, that more proactive supervision
especially during the first half of the Project may have helped address the initial delays that the
Project faced. In the second half of the Project, the restructurings could have benefited from a
formal revision of Project Components, in order to formalize moving away from the emphasis on
the institution of a management model, towards a well-structured support for the Judiciary’s



                                                16
evolving reform agenda. A revision of the Project’s results framework accordingly would have
improved the monitoring and evaluation of Project activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

69.      While the Project was conceived based on a highly relevant development objective and
stemmed from an extensive analytical foundation, and benefited positively from responsive and
focused supervision, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory largely based on
the shortcomings in Project design and original implementation arrangements described above.
Furthermore, at Project end, the Project would have been served well by a more effective
management of expectations as the Bank went through the internal motions to evaluate the case
for the continuation of Project activities.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

70.      Government commitment to achieving development objectives remained solid throughout
Project implementation. The Project benefited from the fact that the broad nature of its PDO
coincided well with the reform priorities of the Government and the Judiciary. At the same time,
the comprehensive reform agenda that the Judiciary took on during this period proved to be
complicated, creating confusion across all stakeholders. The cultural and organizational changes
that the reform agenda instigated complicated the Project’s plans to formulate an integrated
management model that would align with the reform agenda, causing the Project to struggle to
deliver until it reoriented itself to support the transition to the oral system. At the Ministry of
Justice, the Project’s midterm review noted that a continuing turnover in officials caused delays
in the implementation of the different aspects of the Project’s interventions through this
institution. And in the decentralization agenda, it took a long time for the Judiciary to negotiate
with other state institutions the locations for the anticipated justice service centers, which caused
a delay of about one year. While in general the Government and the Judiciary maintained a
positive, collaborative and progressive environment within which reform was unfolded, certain
aspects of the reform agenda complicated Project implementation, therefore leading the ICR to
rate Government performance during the Project moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

61.      Despite the long delay in commencing Project activities, the PMU performed an
impressive job gearing up and intensifying efforts to fast-track Project implementation. The PMU
leadership was able to position the Project as an important reform agent within the Judiciary, and
succeeded to guide the Project through a cost-effective execution of all anticipated activities. On
the other hand, in speeding up execution in order to make up for lost time, the PMU may have
slightly lost sight of the original design of the Project and the expectations that were built from
the outset, especially into the successful implementation of an integrated management model. In
this context, the PMU could have been more proactive in instigating a comprehensive



                                                 17
restructuring of the Project and its results framework as it sought to align more closely with the
changing priorities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

62.     Client ownership remained solid, counterparts were proactive in adjusting to changing
circumstances, and the implementing agency was able to execute all planned Project activities
and the associated financing in a satisfactory manner. However, certain aspects of the Judiciary’s
reform agenda and the PMU’s leadership in reorienting Project activities without seeking a
formal, comprehensive restructuring may have contributed to the moderate shortcomings
observed in Project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

63.     Lessons from Project experience can be grouped into two themes: operational and
technical.

64.      From an operational perspective, Project experience confirms the challenges
Governments often face when PMUs set out to manage projects financed by more than one
institution. Creation of a PMU for one particular project, or ideally reliance on the Government’s
own resources for project management, are alternatives that should be evaluated closely based on
the nature of the project and the capacity of the Government to execute it.

65.      The challenges that the ICR faced in validating the achievement of the PDO based on the
results framework confirms the attention that Project preparation needs to pay to establishing a
clear causal chain between project objectives, outputs, and results indicators. In this context, the
M&E framework would have benefited from a more consistent treatment of measurable outcome
indicators. The M&E framework would have been served better by a more robust framework for
collecting different levels and layers of case processing data, which would have been good proxy
indicators for measuring the timeliness and efficiency of justice services.

66.      From a technical perspective, a number of lessons learned emerge. ICR interviews
validated the significant potential impact of decentralized service centers on making justice
services more accessible to citizens. The decentralization agenda has tremendous potential to
alleviate grievances and enhance citizen confidence in the justice sector, all at a reasonable cost
that involves largely the establishment of relatively inexpensive infrastructure and the
appointment of a qualified judge. In this sense, the Project could have considered placing
additional emphasis on the establishment and institutionalization of more decentralized service
centers especially during the restructurings. The ICR strongly recommends future operations to
explore this theme further.

67.      The confusion that justice sector stakeholders, ranging from judges to lawyers and
citizens, seem to have experienced during the transition to the oral system confirms that any
comprehensive reform initiative should be accompanied by a strong change management and
training agenda. In this context, interviewees have pointed out that the training that was done for
judges should have been extended to administrative personnel, lawyers, and even citizens.




                                                18
68.     Interviews have also suggested that while the initial trainings on conceptual aspects of the
oral system had been useful, further guidance on the administrative and procedural aspects of
conducting cases under the new system would have been beneficial. The ICR understands that the
unified management model that the Judiciary is setting out to establish may serve this need.

69.      Lastly, the analyses that the ICR team conducted with the case processing data provided
by the Judiciary, as well as interviews with judges in different cities, have shown varying degrees
of success in the capacity of each city to absorb the reform agenda. Future interventions could
consider including initiatives where different cities learn from each other’s experiences and even
assist each other in addressing bottlenecks in reform implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Neither the Borrower nor the implementing agency has raised substantive issues with regards to
the findings outlined in this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                                19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component I                             11.48              11.51                 100.26
Component II                             1.73               1.81                 104.62
Component III                            2.67               3.25                 121.72
Component IV                             0.81               3.42                 422.22
            Total Baseline Cost         16.69              20.00                 119.83
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs             16.69               20.00           119.83
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required                16.69               20.00           119.83




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              0.00         0.00         .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       16.69       20.00        119.83
and Development




                                               20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  (a) Strengthening of Judicial Case Management

     Objective: Strengthen the management capacity of the Judiciary to improve the
  performance of civil, family and labor courts in Barranquilla, Bogotá, Bucaramanga,
                              Cali, Cartagena and Medellin.
        Component                      Activity                        Product
                            Design of a management      • Purchase of TV screens for the
                            model that helps reduce the   implementation of the
                            backlog in courts and         management model in labor
                            implements the oral           courts. (2011)
                            procedure for Circuit level • Purchase of audio and video
                            Civil Courts and              equipment for the civil, family
                            implementation of the         and labor courtrooms in
                            management model for          Barranquilla, Bogota,
                            courts, including the         Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Cali
                            execution of civil works      and Medellin. (2012 and 2013)
                            for the relocation and      • Purchase of technological
                            refurbishment of office       equipment to support the
                            spaces in labor, civil and    implementation of the oral
                            family courts.                procedure in labor, civil and
                                                          family courts of Cali, which
                                                          includes 2 servers, 1 storage
                                                          system, 1 tape library and 1 rack.
                                                          (2012)
                                                        • Purchase of desktop computers,
                                                          printers, scanners, laptops and
  Efficiency in the justice                               software licenses to the support
   services management                                    the implementation of the oral
                                                          procedure in civil, family and
                                                          labor courts of Barranquilla,
                                                          Bogota, Bucaramanga,
                                                          Cartagena, Cali and Medellin.
                                                          (2012 and 2013)
                                                        • Consultancy for the diagnosis of
                                                          the physical and technological
                                                          infrastructure needs for the
                                                          implementation of the oral
                                                          procedure in labor, civil and
                                                          family courts of Barranquilla,
                                                          Cartagena, Cali, Bogotá,
                                                          Medellin and Bucaramanga.
                                                          (2011)
                                                        • Civil works for civil, labor and
                                                          family courts, which included the
                                                          setting up of 67 courtrooms, 14
                                                          courts and 2 service centers.
                                                          (2011 and 2012)
                                                        • Civil works for the Hernando


                                            21
                                                       Morales building, which included
                                                       the setting up of 40 courtrooms
                                                       and 1 services center. (2013)
                                                     • Consultancy for the review and
                                                       adjustment of the management
                                                       models for the civil, labor and
                                                       family jurisdictions oriented to
                                                       the implementation of oral
                                                       procedure nationwide, which
                                                       includes the strengthening of the
                                                       human talent capacities, job
                                                       profiles, procedures, organization
                                                       and nature of judicial operators to
                                                       strengthen an efficient service
                                                       providing planning, execution an
                                                       control tools. (2011)
                                                     • Consultancy for an
                                                       organizational diagnostic of the
                                                       management model of the
                                                       administrative chamber of the
                                                       Superior Council of Judicature
                                                       and the Executive Director of
                                                       judicial administration. (2013)
                      Review of court’s              • Consultancy to review the
                      workload to identify active      statistics collected by the
                      and inactive cases and           Judiciary and design of new
                      reassignment of inactive         statistical parameters for the
                      cumulative cases.                decision making process, as well
                                                       as the criteria and standards for
                                                       its management. (2013)
                      Design and implementation      • Consultancy to adjust the
                      of automated procedures          management model of the
                      for despachos comisorios         despachos comisorios in the civil
                      in civil courts of Bogota,       jurisdiction of Bogota. (2011)
                      including execution of civil   • Purchase of the required
                      works to refurbish office        technological components for the
                      spaces in existing               implementation of the
                      installations.                   management model of the
                                                       despachos comisorios. (2011)
                                                     •
                      Establishment of               • Consultancy to design an
                      administrative mechanisms        accountability model for the
                      for Judiciary’s staff            Judiciary. (2013)
                      accountability, addressed
                      to strengthen the role of
                      users in the improvement
                      of justice services


(b) Development of Judicial Human Resources


                                      22
    Objective: Develop Judiciary’s HR based on periodic performance evaluations and
                                       capacity building.
       Component                       Activity                           Product
                            Design of a new               • Consultancy to design the
                            administrative management       methodology to measure the
                            model for the Judicial          impact of the existing training
                            School Rodrigo Lara             programs of the EJRLB through
                            Bonilla (EJRLB), based on       the creation of labor, civil and
                            a review of the current         family observatories. (2011)
                            model.                        • Consultancy to design, develop
                                                            and implement a software for the
                                                            management of an impact
                                                            evaluation observatory for the
                                                            existing training programs of the
                                                            EJRLB. (2013)
                                                          • Consultancy to adjust the
                                                            administrative, organizational and
                                                            management models of the
                                                            EJRLB. (2013)
                            Implementation of the new     • Purchase of desktop computers,
                            administrative management       printers, scanners, laptops and
                            model through the               software licenses to the support
                            development of: (i) virtual     the implementation of the EJRLB
 Judiciary’s staff training methodologies for training      new administrative management
                            and its technical content       model. (2013)
                            (including the execution of   • Purchase of air conditioning and
                            civil works for the             work stations for the EJRLB.
                            refurbishment of the            (2013)
                            video/conference room of      • Purchase of the technological
                            the EJRLB); and (ii) a new      solution to guarantee the wifi
                            applied legal research          supply for all the EJRLB. (2013)
                            program for judges.           • Consultancy for the design,
                                                            development and implementation
                                                            of a virtual training software for
                                                            the entry to the national training
                                                            plan of the EJRLB. (2011)
                            Design and implementation • Consultancy to design, develop
                            of specific training            and implement an education
                            programs as a support of the    management software. (2012)
                            new administrative            • Consultancy to design 3 training
                            management model,               modules applied to oral procedure
                            focused in simplifying and      in labor, family and civil courts.
                            efficiently manage oral         (2012)
                            procedures.
                            Design and implement the      • Consultancy to design and
                            mechanisms and standard         implement a connectivity
Judiciary’s staff
                            parameters for the              mechanism between SINEJ,
performance evaluation
                            performance evaluation of       SIERJU and Justicia siglo XXI
                            judicial staff.                 systems. (2011)


                                              23
                                                     • Consultancy to design and
                                                       implement a judicial management
                                                       monitoring system. (2011)
                                                     • Consultancy for the
                                                       implementation of performance
                                                       evaluation mechanisms of the
                                                       judicial staff focused in quality
                                                       and productivity. (2011)
                                                     • Purchase of technological
                                                       equipment to support the
                                                       implementation of the judicial
                                                       management monitoring system,
                                                       which include 11 servers, 1
                                                       storage system, 1 tape library, 1
                                                       rack and 2 TV screens. (2012)

(c) Facilitating Access to Justice Services

            Objective: Facilitate access to justice services for vulnerable
          population through the generation and dissemination of reliable
         information, geographical coverage expansion, and strengthening
                                of conciliation services.
                                        Product
        • Purchase of desktop computers, printers, scanners, laptops and
          software licenses to the support the implementation of juzgados de
          pequeñas causas. (2013)
        • Purchase of air conditioning and work stations for the juzgados de
          pequeñas causas in Ciudad Bolivar. (2013)
        • Adaptation and functioning of 12 juzgados de pequeñas causas in
          Cartagena (1), Cali (3), Barranquilla (2), Medellin (4) and
          Bucaramanga (2). (2013)




                                         24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Economic and Financial Analysis included in the PAD makes a reference to the Project’s
potential to contribute positively to the governance agenda by “providing the powerful deterrents
of permanent transparency and accountability mechanisms.” It also points out the Project’s
potential impact on doing business by increasing business confidence and reducing the time and
cost of contract enforcement.

While the links between the regulatory environment and the business climate is clear, the ICR
team has neither found a perceivably direct link between Project interventions and improvements
in the business environment, nor felt the necessity to do so. The team has observed that the
primary impact of this Project has been an increase in the overall efficiency, timeliness,
effectiveness, and quality of conflict resolution services. In this sense, the more relevant measure
of the return on the investment would be the efficiency gains in courtroom operations, which, as
the PAD claimed, would allow for a more cost-effective allocation of resources.

The PAD stated that justice sector investments are not “subject to conventional financial analysis
since a substantial part of their outcomes are difficult or impossible to measure, and are more
related to critical social values like legitimacy of, and confidence in, State institutions.” While
this statement is largely valid, there have been considerable advances in recent years in
attempting to quantify the impact of policy interventions in institutional reform. Colombia’s own
process of collecting and analyzing rigorously case management data is an example of an attempt
to understand and inform policy and its impacts on citizen welfare in the justice sector.

While an impact analysis of this
                                               Average Savings in Case Processing
nature has been beyond the
capacity and scope of this ICR       The implementation of the oral system started in
effort, the team has attempted to Colombia in January 2013. Of the six cities that the
calculate the sample, average        Project focused on, two had started implementing the oral
savings achieved in the system system fully since that date (Cali and Barranquilla), while
during this period, through          its implementation is still underway in other cities. To
anecdotal       evidence      from identify the sample average savings per court during this
interviews with judges and other period, the team used as basis the civil circuit courts in
Judiciary stakeholders (see Text Cali. The team first calculated the average cost of
                                     processing a case before the introduction of the oral
Box). The fact that the transition
                                     system, dividing the total annual operating costs of one
to the oral system has in many civil circuit court (COP$432,458,204 or approximately
cases reduced average case US$180,000) by the average final case inventory from
processing times from two years 2009 to 2012 (928), yielding an approximate average cost
to a few months in itself is a of COP$466,011 or US$195 per case. The team then
substantial, promising outcome.      calculates the difference between the 2013 and 2014 final
Furthermore, the establishment of inventories to find the additional number of cases that
decentralized service centers, were processed after the introduction of the oral system.
which      constitute    relatively The case inventory decreased by 474 cases during this
inexpensive      investments     in period, signaling savings around US$92,000 per court per
                                             While simplistic in its methodology, these
infrastructure,     are    already year.
                                     calculations point to significant potential savings,
reducing significantly the legal considering that the Project impacted 234 courts across
fees and the transportation costs six cities during their transition to the oral system.
that citizens would have had to
incur under the old system, where they would have had to perform even the most routine
transactions by traveling to a city and finding legal intermediaries to help them process their
paperwork.


                                                25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


((a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
           Names                                Title                Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Jorge Luis Silva Mendez        Public Sector Specialist             GGODR TTL
Maria Gonzalez de Asis         Senior Public Sector Specialist      LCSPS TTL
David F. Varela                Senior Public Sector Specialist      LCSPS TTL
Santiago Rene Torres           Procurement Specialist               GGODR
Sandra Ximena Enciso Gaitan    Procurement Specialist               GGODR
Luz A. Zeron                   Financial Management Specialist      GGODR
John Factora                   Senior Operations Officer            LCCCO
Alonso Zarzar Casis            Safeguards Specialist                GSURR
Jairo A. Arboleda              Safeguards Specialist                GSURR
Camilo Andres Avila Ceballos   ET Consultant                        GGODR
Eguiar Lizundia                Consultant                           GGODR
Francisco Lazzaro              Research Analyst                     GGODR
Diomedes Berroa                Senior Operations Officer            OPSOR
Carmen Machicado               Operations Officer                   SEGM2
Supervision/ICR
Onur Erdem                     Public Sector Specialist             GGODR
Jorge Luis Silva Mendez        Public Sector Specialist             GGODR TTL
Maria Gonzalez de Asis         Senior Public Sector Specialist      LCSPS TTL
David F. Varela                Senior Public Sector Specialist      LCSPS TTL
Eguiar Lizundia                Consultant                           GGODR
Fernando Monge                 Counsel                              GGODR
Oscar A. Florez                Consultant                           LCSPS
Javier Said Yueng              Consultant                           LCSPS
Camilo Andres Avila Ceballos   ET Consultant                        GGODR
Francisco Lazzaro              Research Analyst                     GGODR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                FY04                                   9                       75.25
                FY05                                  10                       75.58
                FY06                                   9                       91.93
                FY07                                  19                      112.44
                FY08                                  10                      146.24
                FY09                                  27                      133.27
                FY10                                  13                      101.72
                               Total:                 97                      736.43



                                                 26
Supervision/ICR
              FY10               7    73.86
              FY11              13   162.95
              FY12              17   109.25
              FY13              35   225.44
              FY14              13    87.78
              FY15              20    90.49
                     Total:    105   749.77




                              27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Following a period of preparation during which the Bank team worked in close collaboration with
the counterparts assigned by the Borrower for the ICR process, the draft ICR was sent to the
Client for review on June 8, 2015. The Bank received a response from the Borrower on June 12,
2015. The Borrower noted that the Government had no substantive comments, and that the ICR
presented an objective picture of Project performance.




                                              30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    31
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Colombia for the Period FY08-FY11,
March 4, 2008

Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Colombia for the Period FY2012-2016,
June 12, 2011

Implementation Supervision Reports, Colombia Justice Services Strengthening Project.

Interim Financial Reports, Colombia Justice Services Strengthening Project.

Interim Progress Reports, Colombia Justice Services Strengthening Project.

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Adaptable Program Loan in the Amount of
US$ 20 Million to the Republic of Colombia for a Justice Services Strengthening Project
– Phase I (APL1) in Support of the First Phase of the Justice Services Strengthening
Program, November 6, 2009

Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2006 – 2010 “Estado Comunitario: desarrollo para todos.”

Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2014-2018 “Todos Por Un Nuevo País.”




                                          32
