Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFC[AL USE ONLY
ca'. /?zèV-C&4
Report No. P-4418-COM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
December 23, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conoents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Comorian Franc (CF)
US$ 1.00 - CF 380
CF 100 - US$ 0.263
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF    =     African Development Fund
BEPE    =     Education Pro4ect Implementation Unit/
Bureau d'Ex6cution des Projets d'Education
DEPE    =      Directorate for Pre-Primary and Primary Education/
Direction de l'Enseignement Pr*-ElImentaire et EI&mentaire
DESGT   =      Directorate for General and Technical Secondary Education/
Direction de l'Enseignement Secondaire GenAral et Technique
DFPT    =      Directorate for Vocational and Technical Training/Direction
de la Formation Professionnelle et Technique
ENI     =     Primary Teacher Training College/
Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs
ENES    =      National School for Higher Education/
Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement SupErieur
ILO     =     International Labor Organization
INE     =     National Institute of Education/
Institut National d'Education
MEN     =      Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports/
Ministare de l'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la
Jeunesse et des Sports
UNDP    =      United Nations Development Program
UNIDO   =     United Nations Industrial Developmenc Organization
UNCDF   =      United Nations Capital Development Fund
ACADEMIC YEAR
Primary, Secondary, Technical       :     October 1 - June 30
Teacher Training, Higher Education:       October 15 - June 15
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Education, Culture,
Youth and Sports (MEN)
Credit Amount:  SDR 7.0 million (US$7.9 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Project Description:
Objectives:    The project would assist the Government in increasing the
efficiency of the education system and its relevance to
socio-economic needs. Specifically, it would:
(a) strengthen the capacity of the Government to plan,
administer and manage the education sector;
Cb) improve the quality of education through teacher
training and provision of learning materials; and
Cc) train middle-level technicians and skilled workers for
industry, business and management.
Components:   (a) Institutional development -- Strengthening of the
planning and management capacity in MEN through technical
assistance, fellowships, local seminars and training
sessions, and studies on key issues;
(b) Quality improvement -  Upgrading the skills of about
2,000 primary school teachers and about 350 lower secondary
teachers by providing an integrated training program of
correspondence courses, seminars, on-the-job support by
education advisers, and preparation and distribution of
teacher guides and student textbooks;
(c) Manpower development - Establishment of a National
Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training at
Ouani to train skilled workers for industry, and
establishment of a new business school at Moroni to train
office clerks, accountants and secretaries.
Benefits:     The project would enhance the capacity of Government
to effectively use available re;ources in the education
sector by strengthening management and planning, improving
This docurnenthas a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in the perforrnance|
of their official duties. tscontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- li -
educational quality and producing adequate numbers of
skilled workers for industry, and middle-level employees
for business and management. In the long term, as a
result of the institutional development to be promoted by
the project, the education authorities are expected to
have the capacity to carry out integrated sectoral
planning and to optilmize the use of physical and teaching
resources in the education and training sector.
Managerial improvements are expected to reduce
Government's recurrent expenditures in the sector.
Risks:          The project has three types of risk, closely associated
with the problem of sustainability. The first concerns
the Government's financial constraints. To address this
problem, the project has been designed to minimize
recurrent costs and is limited to existing activities,
which would be improved and strengthened. The second risk
concerns the ability of the Government to implement and
operate the project in an adequate manner. To overcome
this risk, the project includes elements to strengthen the
organizational units responsible for education planning,
administration, teacher training and project
implementation. The third risk is that the quality
improvement objectives and the production of skilled
workers may be endangered if the current number of
existing qualified expatriate technical staff is not
maintained. To reduce this risk, the Government has
confirmed that in its future bilateral arrangements with
France and Belgium, priority will be given to the
five-year extension of technical assistance needed for the
project.
Estimated Project Costs:                         Local    Foreign    Total
-US$ million--
Institutional Development:
Administration and Education Planning          0.1        0.4       0.5
Quality Improvement:
Primary Level                                  1.1        0.9        2.0
Lower Secondary Level                           -         0.3        0.3
Hanpower Development:
Training for the Industrial Sector             0.3        1.8        2.1
Training for Business and Management           0.4        0.8        1.2
Sector
Project Administration:                          0.1        0.3        0.4
Total Base Costs                               2.0        4.5        6.5
Physical Contingencies                         0.2        0.5        0.7
Price Contingencies                            0.5        1.1        1.6
Total Project Costs (net of taxes)               2.7        6.1        8.8



Financing Plan:
Local    Foreian   Total
----US$ million----
IDA                                            1.8        6.1        7.9
Government                                     0.9          -        0.9
Total                 2.7        6.1        8.8
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year:         1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
------US$ million-----
Annual                                    0.6   1.4   1.9   1.8   1.1    1.1
Cumulative                               0.6   2;0   3.9   5.7   6.8    7.9
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6039 COM.
Mja: IBRD No. 19520



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros for an
amount of SDR 7.0 million (US$7.9 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
to help finance a Second Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Comoros - Current Economic Situation and
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983.
Since then, informal working papers have been prepared on public investment
and other development policy issues for use in a seminar in the Comoros and
for policy discussions with the Government in February 1986. The following
section is based on the outcome of the February mission. A full economic
mission is planned for December 1986. CouLntry data sheets are provided in
Annex I .o this report.
Salient Features
3.        The Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros became independent from
France in 1975 as a result of a unilateral proclamation by the Comorian
Parliament.   With a population of about 390,000 inhabitants and a GNP per
capita of about $250, the Comoros is among the least developed countries in
the world. The population density of around 180 inhabitants per square
kilometer is one of the highest in the Eastern and Southern Africa Region.
The high population growth of over 3 percent per year has created serious
problems of soil erosion and unemployment. The Comoros is physically
isolated and has very limited natural resources. Moreover, the shortage of
trained personnel has led to a heavy reliance on expatriate staff. Health
conditions are poor and malnutrition is widespread. Life expectancy is 48
years and the infant mortality rate is high.
4.        The Comoros' economy is predominantly rural and highly dependent
on external aid. Between 80 percent and 90 percent of the population is
dependent on agriculture, which contributes 40 percent of GDP and provides
virtually all exports. The major export crops are vanilla, cloves, and
ylang-ylang. Vanilla and ylang-ylang have faced severe competition from
synthetic substitutes. Food production has not kept pace with population
growth and food imports have been increasing steadily. Industry
contributes less than 5 percent of GDP and consists predominantly of the
processing of export crops and a few small factories servicing the domestic
market. Tourism is hardly developed aithough there is some potential. The
transport system has been improved owing to the completion of a number of
important projects in 1985; however, inter-island shipping is still very
inadequate.



5.        The Comoros faces a formidable set of constraints to its economic
development. Some of these constraints, such as the lack of natural
resources and the scarcity of trained manpower, are physical, and the
problems associated with them are not by their nature susceptible to rapid
solution. The country is still a very new nation with new political as
well as economic institutions which will require time to stabilize and to
foster economic development. However, the Government has recently shown
increasing awareness and understanding of the nature and extent of the
country's economic problems, and in some areas has taken actions to address
the problems (para. 12). In April 1985, Government organised a seminar
with Bank staff support in Fomboni (Comoros) where a number of reform
proposals were discussed by a group of civil servants.
Recent Economic Developments: A State of Financial Crisis
6.        The Comoros' gross domestic product grew on average at about 4.4
percent a year during the period 1981-1985. A substantial part of this
growth was in the services sector (commerce, transport) and in
construction, and was the direct result of the execution of investment
projects. Gross investment went up from 26 percent of GDP in 1981 to 40
percent in 1984 as road and port construction and the implementation of
other projects under the Interim Plan (1983-86) peaked. When activity on
these projects tapered off in 1985, the investment rate dropped to 27
percent of GDP. Growth in agricultural output was slow, lower than the
growth of population. The pressure of population in the rural sector is
causing widespread soil and environmental deterioration; this is a serious
problem since cultivable land is the only valuable natural resource in the
Comoros. Therefore, a program of orpulation control and measures to combat
deforestation and soil erosion       fundamental to any effort to improve the
economic situation of the Comoria- people in the long run.  The Government
recognizes these problems and, with support from donors, has started to
implement programs of family planning and of land resource conservation.
7.        Despite considerable external support for the budget (27 percent
of GDP), the fiscal situation has deteriorated sharply due to recent
declines in budgetary revenues and significant increases in total
expenditures. The overall budget deficit, excluding grants, was estimated
to be as high as 48 percent of GDP in 1985 against 33 percent in 1981 (if
grants were included, the deficit in 1985 accounted for about 20 percent of
GDP). In 1986, budgetary revenues are projected to increase by 8 percent
while total expenditures are projected to decline by about 6 percent; this
would lead to an improvement in the fiscal situation. The chronic shortage
of funds has resulted in arrears in payments on internal and external debt,
delays in meeting civil servants' salaries, and continual shortfalls in
allocations of local funds for the execution and operation of externally
funded projects. Arrears in payments on external debt stood at almost $2
million at the end of 1985, and those on the unsettled transfers between
the postal banking system of France and the Comoros reached about $2.2
million.



-3 --
8.        The current account deficit of the balance of payments reached a
peak of 31 percent of GDP in 1984 when export earnings fell by more than
half (mainly due to a fall in vanilla prices) while imports (in current
prices) increased by 40 percent owing to high investment spending.
However, the situation improved in 1985 as exports recovered while imports
fell by 13 percent reflecting lower imports for rice, petroleum products
and capital goods. As a result, the current account deficit dropped to
nearly 17 percent of GDP. In 1986, this deficit is projected to remain
around the 1985 level.
9.        External Assistance.  Total external aid to the Comoros has
inLreased rapidly over the past several years, and now amounts to around
$50 million per year or the equivalent of about $130 per capita, one of the
highest in Africa. About 60 percent of external assistance is in the form
of grants for budgetary support, technical assistance, and food aid. The
rest is in the form of external borrowing, mostly on concessionary terms
for development purposes. Debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) rose from
$52 million in 1981 to $124 million (117 percent of GDP) at the end of
1985. If the undisbursed amount is included the debt will be equivalent to
185 percent of GDP. The largest multilateral creditor is the African
Development Bank group (20 percent of DOD), followed by the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) (12 percent) and IDA (11 percent).
More than 55 percent of the country's external debt is owed to countries
and institutions in the Arab world. Disbursements on medium and long-term
debt reached almost $22 million in 1985, more than triple the 1981 level.
10.       Debt service payments increased steadily from 3 percent of export
of goods in 1981 to about 23 percent in 1985. In 1986, debt service
payments are expected to reach $6.5 million or over 30 percent of export
earnings. By 1990, these payments are projected to be around $10 million
and the debt service ratio over 50 percent. The magnitude of these
payments will obviously lead to serious problems. As noted above, there
have been chronic delays in debt service payments, and the Government has
already accumulated substantial arrears (para. 7).
Public Investments Priorities and Programming
11.       A change is needed in the emphasis of the development effort to
reduce public investment and to shift from further capital-intensive
i-nrastructure toward the productive sectors and manpower development.
The recent history of large and dubious investments in the transport
sector, especially the port of Mutsamudu, should be avoided. Formulation
of a realistic macro-economic and financial framework for public investment
is a high priority, and will require close consultation and collaboration
among key ministries. Given the currenc serious recurrent cost problem,
the appraisal and selection of development projects must give due attention
to the future budgetary implications of proposed projects.



-4-
Economic Reforms
12.       Against the background of serious deterioration in the economic
and financial situation, a new Cablnet appointed In September 1985 is
starting to take remedial measures, with priority given to financial
stabilization. Government has made substantlal efforts to prepare a
realistic and complete 1986 budget with inclusion of the capital budget for
the first time and to contain recurrent expenditures by reducing the number
of unnecessary public service positions as well as fringe benefits provided
to civil servants. Specifically, a significant reduction in the budget
deficit is expected in 1986 with the withholding of 20 percent of regular
budget funds other then wages and salaries. The Government has undertaken,
with French assistance, a systematic review of all employees on its payroll
(about 380 civil servants have already been dismissed). Although these
measures are not wide-ranging in terms of economic policy, they are in the
right direction.
13.       The Government has indicated to the Bank that further recovery
measures will be undertaken in four main areas: financial management,
public enterprises, coordination of public investment and external aid, and
civil service administration. First, efforts will be intensified for
further reduction of the budget deficit by improving budgetary revenues
through reinforcement of tax collection and adjustment of certain tariffs
and custom duties. Public investment is expected to be further reduced.
Second, Government will strengthen the unit in the Ministry of Finance in
charge of monitoring public enterprises. The status of public enterprises
and their legal and financial relations with the Government will be
examined with IBRD assistance. Third, the respective roles of the Finance,
Planning, and the technical ministries in public investment and aid
coordination will be clarified and strengthened. Finally, Government will
undertake a review of existing civil service regulations as well as
compensation policy.
14.       The problem of arrears and the global debt issue remain
critical. The position of the debt that could be rescheduled through the
Paris Club is small (about 6 percent). Efforts have been made to approach
donors outside of the Paris Club to renegotiate their external debt.
However, Government bilateral efforts have not yet succeeded as several
creditors do not seem to be willing to take action on the debt issue
without a comprehensive program of economic reform endorsed by the Fund and
the Bank.
15.       The critical issues in Comoros require that priority in Its
economic reform program be given to demand management and financial
stabilization, even though the country faces fundamental long-term
structural problems. Although the Government has indicated its intention
to prepare a financial stabilization program with assistance from the IMF,
a formal request could not be foreseen before the elections scheduled for
March 1987. Meanwhile, the Bank mission in December 1986 will try to
deepen policy dialogue on adjustment and to intensify assistance on reform
measures.



Aid Coordination
16.       An initial UNDP Round Table took place in July 1984 in Comoros.
The meeting received strong support from donors, which recommended that
the Government keep the public investment program under close scrutiny with
regard to its composition, timing, and volume. In view of the country's
critical debt problems, the Government has requested support from the Bank
in addressing its external debt situation. As Comoros is a UNDP Round
Table country, the Bank does not intend to play a lead role but will
provide analytical support to UNDP.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS
17.       The Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association
in December 1977. To date, the Comoros has received seven IDA credits
totalling US$32.7 million, of which one credit, for the First Highways
Project ($5.0 million), has been fully disbursed. IDA credits have
focussed on agriculture (two credits), transportation (two credits),
education, development finance, and health and population. Recently,
disbursements have amounted to about 65 to 70 percent of appraisal
estimates. IFC has not made any investments in the Comoros. Annex II to
this report contains a summary of IDA operations in the Comoros as of
September 30, 1986.
18.       Implementation of ongoing projects is satisfactory, in general,
although two problems regularly aEfect implementation and operation.
First, experience has shown that substantial inputs of technical assistance
are needed for project management (as under the First Education and Road
Rehabilitation projects), and this raises issues of sustainability.
Indeed, technical assistance management is becoming a significant aid
coordination issue. Second, timely implementation of projects (such as the
Coconut Rehabilitation, First Education, and Health and Population) has
been frequently disrupted by a lack of local currency resources. A Project
Completion Report on the First Highways Project (Cr. 852-COM, for $5.0
million) was released in December 1983; it concluded that, apart from
construction, the project was only partially successful, due to delays in
procurement, shortage of local funds, and lack of qualified counterpart
staff.
19.       The Bank assistance strategy aims at assisting the Government to
initiate concerted actions to improve overall economic management,
particularly public investment programming and aid coordination, and to
strengthen the directly productive sectors of the economy. The IDA
role will be limited to areas of World Bank comparative advantage among the
donors involved-agriculture, education, and macro-economic management.



-6-
Our specific assistance objectives are:
(a)  to assist the Government in restructuring development policy,
with priority given to financial stabilization and improved
public sector management;
(b)  to assist the Government In formulating and implementing n
structural adjustment program for agriculture; and
(c)  to strengthen the education development process with emphasis on
financing, planning, and management issues.
20.       Economic and sector work will be directed at broadening our
economic policy dialogue with the Government and gaining insight Into
sectors where timely recommendations could avoid over-dimensioning of
projects and could improve sector management efficiency. Sector studies
have been prepared on health/populationtnutrition, transport, agriculture
and, most recently, education. The Education Sector Memorandum (Report
5598-COM) formed the basis for the project proposed in this report; it
identifies key constraints and needs, many of which are related to overall
country constraints--Government difficulties in meeting recurrent costs,
shortage of skilled human resources and growing population. The proposed
project would address many of these constraints and needs, and assist the
Government in generating and implementing solutions.
PART III - EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN THE COMOROS
Structure of the Education System
21.       The education and training system in the Comoros consists of two
years of pre-primary education in Koranic schools, six years of primary
education, four years of lower secondary education (collages ruraux) and
three years of upper secondary education (lyc&es). Primary teachers are
trained in the National Primary Teacher Training College (ENI), and lower
secondary teachers, education inspectors and business managers are trained
in the National School for Higher Education (ENES). With this minor
exception, all higher education is provided overseas, largely in France and
Algeria. Technical education is provided at the General Lycße of Mutsamudu
for industrial activities and at the General Lyc6e of Moroni for commercial
subjects. Training of agricultural extension staff is provided under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Production and Rural Development and is
offered in new facilities financed under the First IDA Education
Project. The language of instruction at primary and secondary levels is
French, except at eight Arabic colleges where all subjects are taught in
Arabic.
Government Education Policies
22.       The general framework of an education policy has been delineated
in statements of the President and the Ministers in charge of education.
These statements focus on the need: (a) to increase access to education;



- 7 -
(b) to improve che quality of education at all levels; (c) to relate
education programs better to the country's environment and customs; and (d)
to Increase specialized skill training and to make it respond better to the
development needs of the country. The Minister of Education has expressed
a determination to strengthen education statistics and planning. For this
purpose, at the Minister's request, a propnsal to reorganize administratlon
was prepared by a consultant financed under the First Education Project.
In addition, the Minister expressed deep interest in the implementation of
the main recommendations of the Bank's Education Sector Memorandum, which
were verbally accepted by the Government In May 1985. The proposed Second
Education project would launch the implementation of the most important of
the recommendations, i.e. reorganization and strengtheningof education
administration, adoption of financial and technical measures which would
lead to improved cost efficiency and better allocation of the education
budget and improved quality of education, and preparation of education
programs immediately relevant to the country's needs.
Main Issues
23.       Control of Education Financing and Costs.  MEN expenditures are
the largest single item in the Government's recucrent budget, accounting
for over one-fourth of the total.  The MEN budget excludes the salaries of
expatriate teachers and some school material financed by bilateral
assistance; the rental expenditures for the provision of housing for
expatriate teachers (included under common expenditures); and the
expenditures Eor specialized education under other ministries (agricultural
and health education). If all expenditures in the sector financed by the
Government budget are taken into account, the share of education increases
to about 28 percent, in comparison to the 18.5 percent average for the
region.  This share of the budget is explained by the following factors:
(a) education is free at all levels; (b) enrollment, in particular at the
secondary level, is high; (c) student/teacher ratios are lower than in many
countries in the region; (d) salaries of some of the pre-primary teachers
are Government financed; (e) a substantial number of expensive (because of
very high repetition rates) scholarships are provided for higher education;
and (f) fellowships for higher education are too generous.
24.       Although the level of expenditures for education is a major
concern in relation to limited Government revenues, the inefficient
disLtibution of these expenditures within the sector is an even more
serious problem. In 1984/85, 20 percent of the education budget was
allocated to higher education, at institutions in the country or study
abroad on fellowships, while only 25.5 percent was devoted to 18,684
secondary students and 36.3 percent to 65,265 primary students. 15.9
percent of the education budget finances fellowships abroad but only 1.7
percent is allocated to educational materials and equipment at the primary
level. Improving the allocation of budgetary resources in the sector would
necessitate limiting fellowships abroad to those high priority areas for
which no external funding is available, adopting and implementing
cost-saving measures such as increasing student/teacher ratios,
particularly at the upper secondary and higher education levels, and
reduction of the number of non-teaching staff at the National School for
Higher Education (ENES).



-8-
25.       Through better administration and management, more efficient
planning, and better qualified teachers, education costs can be
controlled. Substantial savings are expected to be achieved through recent
measures adopted by the Government. At the beginning of the academic year
1985/86, the newly appointed Cabinet adopted two important measures to
limit recurrent education expenditures: (a) the termination of primary
auxiliary teacher recruitment (200 teachers in 1984, out of a total of
about 2,000); and (b) termination of Government-financed 1985/86
fellowships abroad (57 were granted by the Government in 1984). Moreover,
although no final statistics are available, enrollment growth at lower and
upper secondary levels appears to have been limited to 2 percent and I
percent respectively for the academic year 19B5/86 as compared to 14
percent and 32 percent respectively in 1984/85. For the future, (a) any
new major capital investment aimed at expanding secondary school enrollment
will be made in accordance with the agreed policy of limiting growth at
these levels; (b) any capital Investment of $500,000 equivalent or more
will be subject to Bank agreement; (c) in the period 1986/87 to 1988/89,
recruitment of new teachers will be limited to those trained at ENI and
EKES; (d) in the period 1986/87 to 1988/89, Governmenc-financed
baccalaureat holders will be limited to those necessary for students
attending courses at ENI and ENES, and to those high priority areas for
which no external funding is available; and (e) enrollment growth at lower
and upper secondary levels will be: 0 percent between 1986/87 and 1988/89,
1 percent between 1988/89 and 1990/91, and 3 percent thereafter.
26.       The atove measures are justified for the following reasons: (a)
enrollments in lower and upper secondary education-41.3 percent and 12.7
percent respectively compared with estimated averages of 14.5 percent and
5.5 percent for other countries of the region-are high and exceed the
country's need for trained personnel at these levels; (b) the high
enrollment ratios have been obtained at the expense of the quality of
education, as they oblige the Government to recruit poorly qualified and
poorly paid teachers; (c) as the Government is now willing Co improve the
quality of secondary education through the gradual recruitment of teachers
trained at ENES, who will receive increased salaries, any quantitative
expansion beyond the accepted limits would result in drastic cost
increases; and finally (d) improvement in the quality of education would
also necessitate the use of education materials--teacher guides, student
textbooks, science equipment-whose cost is expected to be only partially
offset by increases in student/teacher ratios and teachers' working time,
and by the payment of a user fee collected from the students borrowing
textbooks.
27.       Administration.  Education administration and planning suffer
from a lack of adequate leadership and qualified staff, and a clear
assignment of responsibilities. All major decisions are made by the
Minister of Education, but his wide range of responsibilities makes it
difficult for him to discuss all the issues with technical staff, to take
timely decisions and to follow up on actions taken. The Education Plannlng



Unit, the directorates in charge of curriculum development and teacher
training and the departments of primary and secondary education have
overlapping responsibilities and unclear objectives, and have not been made
effectively responsible for solving problems. Finally, there are
deficiencies in primary and secondary school administration, due mainly to
lack of supervision and inadequate headmaster training.
28.       Quality and Efficiency of Education.  Poorly qualified
teachers (particularly at the lower secondary level), high teacher
absenteeism, lack of educational resources, low time spent by students in
contact with teachers and poor school organization, management and
supervision, result in poor quality and low efficiency, mainly at the
primary and lower secondary levels. The low efficiency of education is
evidenced by high repetition, drop-out and failure rates, and by the high
and increasing illiteracy rate. Improving the quality of education, making
it more relevant to the country's n eeds, and developing employment-oriented
vocational training should now become priorities for development of
education and training in the Comoros, and constitute the main components
of the project proposed in this report.
External Assistance to the Education Sector
29.       Direct b iget support provided by France, although declining
steadily, still covered about 23 percent of the recurrent expenditures in
education in 1984, while 95 percent of investment in education is being
financed through foreign grants or credits. The external assistance is
handled thro"gh extra-budgetary accounts which are beyond the control of
the Treasury. It is estimated that these extra-budgetary accounts
increased from 32 percent of GDP in 1980 to about 57 percent in 1984. The
main donor is France which, on top of general budgetary support, is
assisting INE, ENES, and secondary and higher education with teaching and
advisory staff, while providing textbooks for the primary level. It is
expected that France's leading role in the sector will be maintained.
Saudi Arabia is funding the construction of an administrative block for the
ENES primary classrooms, and is providing technical assistance in the
teaching of Arabic; Belgium and Canada are providing assistance to INE,
secondary school teachers and school equipment; UNICEF is helping with
school gardens and pre-school programs; the Netherlands is assisting
women's organizations; and the African Development Fund is assisting with
the construction of 54 primary classrooms, the upgrading/renovation of 13
secondary schools and the construction, furniture and equipment of new
facilities for the IKE.
30.       The content of the proposed project was discussed with
representatives of France, Belgium, Canada, the United States, the UNDP and
the EEC, to avoid duplication of effort and to maximize the benefits to the
education sector. Through an important program of technical assistance.
France, Belgium, UNDP and Canada are expected to play an essential role in
project implementation; they would also participate actively in the
education policy dialogue. Close coordination among external donors
engaged in the education and training sector will continue.



- 10 -
Bank Role in Education
31.       The Bank strategy in the education sector in the Comoros is to
continue to support Government efforts to improve the quality of education
while reducing costs. The IDA education policy dialogue will aim to assist
the Government (a) to limit recurrent expenditures to a level consistent
with the country's financial capacity; (b) to allocate and use both human
and financial resources more efficiently and equitably; and (c) to avoid
wasting resources in the form of unproductive and unnecessary scholarships
for higher education.  IDA has supported education in the Comoros directly
through the First Education Project (Credit 1378-COM). This project, which
will close June 30, 1987, assists the Government in improving primary
education, and developing human resources through the training of
agricultural and health workers. Physical implementation of the project
has been satisfactory.
32.       Experience with past education projects indicates that in view of
the country's limited administrative capacity, future project design should
avoid multiple components and limit the number of departments involved.
Although physical implementation of projects has been so far relatively
successful, the lack of timely provision of Government counterpart funds
has, at times, slowed implementation. In addition, the difficulties in
implementing efficiently the "software" components point to the need for a
continuous dialogue on education issues. The design of the proposed
project takes these lessons into account.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.       The project was identified by IDA in September 1984, and prepared
by the Government with assistance from the Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program.
Appraisal of the project took place in October 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington D.C., in June 1986. The Government delegation was led
by Mr. Said Ahmed Said Ali, Minister of Economy and Finance and Mr. Salim
Idarousse, Minister of Education. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Second Education Project in the Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros" dated
June 17, 1986, is being distributed separately. A Credit and Project
Summary appears at the beginning of this report and a supplementary data
sheet is given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
34.       The project is one element of a long-term strategy for the
development of the education sector, which emphasizes improving cost
efficiency. This strategy focuses on the control of education
expenditures, more efficient use of education resources, improvement of the
quality of education, and strengthening of vocational training.



- 11 -
Specifically, the three major objectives of the proposed project are: (a)
to promote institutional development through strengthening of the
Government's capacity to plan, administer and manage education; (b) to
improve the quality of primary and lower secondary education; and (c) to
meet some of the country's human resource needs through the training of
middle level technicians and skilled workers for the industrial sector, and
of middle level business employees. Thus, the project is immediately
responsive to the overall concerns of the IDA country strategy to
strengthen economic and particularly financial management, to reduce public
expenditure, and to apply public resources more efficiently to critical
needs.
Project Description
35.       The project would consist of:
(a) Institutional Development: strengthening of planning and
management in the Ministry of Education, Culture, Youth and
Sports (MEN), through technical assistance, fellowships,
local seminars and training sessions, and studies on key
issues;
(b) Quality Improvement: upgrading of the skills of about 2,000
primary and 350 lower secondary teachers through an
integrated training program of correspondence courses,
seminars, on-the-job support by education advisers, and
preparation and distribution of teacher guides and student
textbooks; and
(c) Manpower Development: establishment of a National Center for
Technical Education and Vocational Training at Ouani to train
skilled workers for industry, and establishment of a new
business school at lioroni to train office clerks, accountants
and secretaries.
Detailed descriptions of these components follow.
Institutional Development
36.       Administration.  Following the appointment of the new Minister of
Education, a reorganization of education administration is being
undertaken. Assistance is required to improve the qualifications of
managers, enable them to define the objectives of their respective
departments, and prepare plans to implement these objectives. The proposed
project would include financing for consultant services to assist the
Government in the implementation of che agreed reforms of education
administration, local training and scholarships to train administrators.
Government has agreed to review before June 30, 1987 MEN's organization



- 12 -
chart and to upgrade the existing Planning Unit into an Education Planning
Directorate and a department responsible for curriculum development and
teacher training at the primary and secondary education levels.
37.        Planning.  The current Planning Unit needs to be strengthened
both quantitatively and qualitatively to address the pressures of the
expanding education system and the simultaneous need for better education,
and for more efficient use of human and financial resources. The project
would assist the future Planning Directorate to establish and prepare an
education development plan. During a three to four-year preliminary phase,
the Planning Directorate would: (a) analyze education costs and financing
with a view to recommending cost-saving measures; (b) study and propose
solutions to key issues such as better use of existing teaching staff,
improvement of education quality and provision of adequate education
materials; and (c) collect and analyze reliable education statistics. The
second phase would be the completion of an education plan. It is expected
that the education plan to be prepared by the education Planning Unit would
include the following cost-saving measures: (a) reduction of non-teaching
staff, particularly the high number of school principals; (b) increase of
student/teacher ratios at all levels; (c) increased time that teachers
work, which is currently among the lowest in Africa; (d) organization of
double-shift and/or multigrade teaching where and when necessary; (e)
selectior of fellowship holders on the basis of parents' income and student
achievements; and (f) establishment of a time ceiling for studying abroad.
This long-term exercise would require highly qualified Comorian
specialists, who will be trained under the proposed project. By June 30,
1987, the Planning Directorate will be staffed with a director, an
education planner, an economist, a statistician and a school mapping
specialist, acceptable to the Association.
38.       Recent Government actions aimed at an immediate reduction of
recurrent educatio: costs (para. 25) are expected to lead to substantial
reduction of the education budget. They must, however, be complemented by
che implementation of long-term measures derived from the studies and
recommendations expected to come from the education Planning Unit.
A financing plan to increase the cost-effectiveness of education,
acceptable to !DA, including concrete and monitorable actions, will be
completed by June 30, 1987. The proposed cost-saving actions will be
implemented beginning with the academic year 1987/88.
Quality Improvement
39.       To improve the quality of education at the primary level, about
2,000 underqualified teachers would be provided with training to upgrade
their teaching skills and subject matter knowledge, and 35 pedagogical
advisers and 250 school principals would be provided with training to
improve support and guidance for teachers. Each teacher would undergo an
integrated, in-service training program consisting of: (a) a one-year
correspondence course; (b) two one-week seminars organized at the regional
level and conducted by education advisers assisted by school principals;



- 13 -
and (c) a six-week upgrading course during summer vacation. About 400
teachers would undergo training each year. The project would finance:
upgrading of existing physical facilities for the organization of training
seminars; provision of motorcycles; per diem and travel costs for local
training; salaries and expenses for the local staff working during surmer
vacation; development and printing of course material, correspondence
course materials, teacher guides and student textbooks; and incremental
operating expenditures (transport and administrative expenses, maintenance
and spare parts for vehicles and motorcycles).
40.       Improving the quality of education at the lower secondary level
by investing heavily in medium-term teacher training would not be
cost-effective because many teachers are temporary and leave when their
one-year national service is completed. Although the number of permanent
teachers trained at ENES is increasing, immediate action is needed to
increase the level of lower secondary student achievement; dnder the
proposed project, quality improvement would be obtained through the
provision of detailed curricula, teacher guides and student textbooks,
close monitoring of the teaching staff and short training courses for
temporary teachers. Three training seminars for a total of about 350
trainees will be held annually during four years. The training of three
education inspectors would be included to monitor the development of lower
secondary education activities under the proposed project. In the interim,
monitoring and on-the-job training of the teachers would be the
responsibility of the 80 lower secondary school headmasters, who would
attend an initial four-week seminar during summer vacation, followed by a
one-week refresher seminar each year. The project would provide financing
for limited amounts of equipment and supplies for the preparation and
distribution of teaching guides and textbooks; fellowships for the training
of inspectors; per diem and travel costs for local training; salaries and
expenses for th.e staff working during summer vacations; expenses for the
development and printing of course materials and teaching equipment; and
operating expenditures (transport and administrative expenses).
Manpower Development
41.       Although employment opportunities are limited in the Comoros,
according to a 1985 World Bank/Unesco Cooperative Program study, there is
an annual need for between 30 and 80 skilled industrial workers and/or
middle-level technicians, and for between 60 and 100 clerks, accountants,
secretaries and typists. Also, self-employed artisans and/or small
entrepreneurs should be provided with modern working practices, and
existing in-service business and management staff should be recycled and
upgraded. Finally, the gradual replacement of a relatively important
number of expatriates working as professionals (-cadres") in the industrial
and business sectors would require training at a further level. Current
technical training, which aims at preparing the students for a technical
baccalaureat, is not functioning properly: the training streams are not set



- 14 -
up in relation to the employment opportunities, the potential employers are
not consulted on the programs, and there is a lack of equipment and
functional facilities. Moreover, the absence of relationship between
potential employers and the systems responsible for the supply of trained
manpower, which exists for industrial and business/management training as
well, is a heavy handicap for a country where the number of unemployed
trained workers in particular skills is increasing, while the other skilled
specialists' positions continue to be vacant. The objective of the project
would be to -eplace the existing training by a more elaborate and practical
technical/vocational training system, which would be sufficiently flexible
to respond quickly to manpower demand and employment possibilities.
42.       To organize and monitor the training of artisans, skilled
workers, middle level technicians and technicians, clerks, accountants,
secretaries and typists, the project would assist the Government in the
establishment of a Directorate for Vocational and Technical Training
(DFPT). DFPT would be responsible for the development of training programs
at the two institutions to be financed by the proposed project, i.e. the
Technical/Vocational Training Center of Ouani and the Business School at
Moroni. The project would finance a consultant who would also supervise
the implementation of vocational/technical training programs. To establish
better relations with employers, DFPT will be assisted by a Management
Board, where employers would be represented. A Presidential Decree
establishing DFPT will be submitted to the Association for review and
approval not later than June 30, 1987; the Vocational/Technical Training
Center of Ouani and the Business/Management School of Moroni will be
formally placed under the authority of DFPT.
43.       To train human resources for industry, a National Center for
Technical Education and Vocational Training would be established by
rehabilitating and expanding the "Centre de Formation Professionnelle" at
Ouani, to provide up to 260 student places, with a planned annual output of
about 130. The project would provide for rehabilitation of the existing
Ouani Vocational Training Center, furniture, equipment, technical
assistance through a specialist in modular training systems, fellowships
for teacher training, local craining and incremental operating
expenditures (administrative expenses, spare parts, consumables and
maintenance of the equipment). This component would integrate the
"enseignement technique", which is under !EN, and the "formation
professionnelleC, which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labor,
and would result in substantial savings by using common facilities,
equipment and teachers, and would give to the training program a
professional orientation which the existing program does not have. The
Governmenc has requested financial and technical assistance from UNDP and
ILO for the in-service training of local craftsmen and intends to seek
UNCDF or UNIDO assistance to establish a revolving fund, from which
individuals could receive loans for self-employment or small enterprises
could be supported.



- 15 -
44.       To provide the employment market with clerks, accountants,
secretaries and typists, the project would upgrade the existing management
team at the General Lycee of Moroni. It would become the National Business
and Management School and would accomodate 365 day students. Studies would
be essentially practical. Retraining courses for employees would also be
provided. The project would provide financing for the required
facilities, furaiture and equipment, fellowships for teacher training,
local training and incremental operating expenditures (administrative
expenses, spare parts and maintenance of the equipment). Currently, France
and Belgium are financing a total investment of eight teachers, who are
expected to continue to assist in the development of the program until
local teachers can be trained to replace them.
Summary of Technical Assistance
45.       Specialists.  Because of the large volume of ongoing technical
assistance being provided by bilateral donors, the number of specialists
financed under the project would be less than what would otherwise be
required. 76 staff/months of specialist services under the proposed
project would cover: (a) 30 staff/months for administration and planning,
to train an education planner and assist the Government in the
implementation of reforms in education administration and in the
preparation of education development plans and studies; (b) 42 staff/months
to train technical and business and management teachers; and (c) 4
staff/months for a procurement specialist and for pre-investment studies.
France and Belgium provide technical assistance for teacher training. They
have informally indicated willingness to continue their assistance. As the
success of the proposed project depends largely on continued technical
assistance for, at least the next five years, the Government will give
priority in its future bilateral arrangements with France and Belgium to
the five-year extension of technical assistance for teacher training and
technical/vocational training needed for the project.
46.       Fellowships.  The project would finance about 15 staff/years of
long and short-term fellowships abroad: (a) 36 staff/months for education
administration and planning; (b) 63 staff/months for the training of lower
secondary school inspectors; (c) 75 staff/months for the training of future
technical teachers; and (d) 72 staff/months for the training of future
business and management teachers; and (e) 7 staff/months for the upgrading
of project management staff. The curriculum vitae of each fellowship
recipient, all courses of study, training institutions and estimated costs
would be subject to review by the Association. Upon return, fellowship
recipients would serve at least ten years in the position for which they
were trained.
Project Sustainability
47.       The proposed project would provide the education sector with
institutions which could function under local managers, specialists and



- 16 -
teachers as soon as the project is completed. All education planning
specialists, middle-level administrators and technical/vocational training
teachers are expected to be trained by the end of 1989. All primary and
lower secondary teachers would be trained during project implementation.
The only activity to continue after the period financed by the proposed
credit would be on-the-job training and monitoring; this would be performed
by the pedagogical alvisers and inspectors whose qualifications would be
enhanced under the project.
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total estimated project cost is $8.8 million equivalent.  The
foreign exchange component is estimated at $6.1 million, or about 69
percent of project cost. Cost estimates for civil works, furniture,
equipment and vehicles were prepared in consultation with BEPE, MEN and the
Ministry of Public Works. Technical assistance costs under the project are
based on UNDP rates. Items directly imported for the project would be
exempt from custom duties and taxes; other local taxes would be
negligible. Contingency allowances are as follows: 10 percent of base
costs for physical contingencies, and an average of 24 percent of the base
cost plus physical contingencies for price contingencies. The latter have
been calculated at the following annual inflation rates: 1986, 7.2 percent;
1987, 6.8 percent; 1988, 6.8 percent; 1989, 7.0 percent and 1990, 7.1
percent. Inflation rates are assumed to be equal for foreign and local
costs due to the almost complete dependence of the country on imported
goods.
49.       The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of $7.9
million equivalent or 90 percent of total project cost excluding taxes.
The proposed IDA credit would finance $6.1 million, or 100 percent of the
foreign exchange component, and $1.8 million or 67 percent of local costs.
The Government's contribution would be $0.9 million, over five and half
years and would cover sa'.aries of education planning unit staff, education
advisors, lower secondary school inspectors, technical teachers and
additional project-related administrative staff. The impact of the project
on the recurrent budget would arise almost entirely from the cost of
operating the technical/vocational training center and the primary and
lower secondary teacher in-service training programs, new salaries and
salary increases for the staff acquiring new qualifications. These
additional costs would begin in 1,91, and would amount to about FC8 million
for the planning unit, FC60 million for teacher training and FC49 million
for technical training. However, cost-saving measures agreed upon at
negotiations would free about FC100 million annually through the
termination of underqualified primary teacher recruitment, and an
additional FC40 million annually through elimination of Government-financed
fellowships abroad. Other savings would result from increased
student/teacher ratios, and limit on enrollment growth at lower and upper



- 17 -
secondary levels. These savings would more than offset all recurrent costs
gen'zcated by the project.
Project Implementation
50.        The proposed project would be implemented over a period of five
and a half years. Project completion is expected by December 31, 1991,
with a closing date of June 30, 1992. The implementation schedule Is based
upon experience from the First IDA Education Project and an ongoing African
Development Fund (AfDF) education project.
51.       The project unit (BEPE), which is implementing the First IDA
Education Project, the AfDF Education Project and the civil works component
of an IDA Health and Population Project, would be responsible for project
administration.  The BEPE is an established unit which has gained
considerable experience through its administration of several ongoing
projects. Sketch plans for civil works are under preparation. Furniture
and equipment lists are being prepared concurrently with the design of hte
facilities. Terms of Reference for technical assistance specialists have
been prepared. BEPE has been strengthened with a general educator and a
chief accountant, who have been recruited. BEPE would be further
strengthened by a procurement specialist, whose recruitment is currently
proceeding. A consultant architectural firm would be hired by BEPE for the
civil works component, on the basis of sketch plans and briefing documents
prepared by BEPE. Government has agreed that the following local
specialists would be recruited and maintained in their positions during
project execution: two education planners, one education financing
specialist, one school mapping specialist, 35 education advisers, three
lower secondary school inspectors, 10 teacher trainers and curriculum
development specialists at INE and ENES, eight teachers for the Technical
School of Ouani and eight teachers for the National Business School at
Moroni.



- 18 -
Procurement
52.       Procurement arrangements are as follows:
Category                  ICB       LCB       Other         TOTAL
---- US$ millions--           -
Civil works                         1.5                       1.5
(1.5)                    (1.5)
Furniture, equipment    2.2          0.3                      2.5
materials & vehicles   (2.2)       (0.3)                     (2.5)
Consultant Services                           1.2             1.2
(1.2)          (1.2)
Training                                      2.6            2.6
(2.6)          (2.6)
Operating Costs                               1.0            1.0
(0.1)          (0.1)
TOTAL        2.2         1.8      4.8             8.8
(2.2)      (1.8)    (3.9)           (7.9)
Note: Figures in p.renLheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
IDA.
53.       Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement, except for contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) and in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association. The aggregate total of such
contracts is not expected to exceed $0.3 million equivalent. Due to the
small size and type of work (rehabilitation and small extension), contracts
for civil works for the Technical Vocational Training School, estimated at
about $1.5 million, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and In accordance with procedures acceptable to the



- 19 -
Association. When ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent over the c.i.f. price of
competing foreign suppliers, or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable, to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement.
Bank Group review of tender evaluation documents ;rior to award would be
required for contracts exceeding $100,000 equivalent for civil works, and
$50,000 for furniture, equipment and vehicles. Consultants would be
selected and hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group, in
accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Disbursement
54.       Disbursements under the proposed IDA Credit would be made on the
basis of: (a) 100 percent of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100
percent of total expenditures for furniture, equipment, materials and
vehicles; (c) 100 percent of total expenditures for consultant services;
(d) 100 percent of total expenditures for training; and (e) 100 percent of
total expenditures for operating costs (excluding salaries of local
personnel) and allowances. All disbursements would be fully documented
except for: (a) civil works contracts costing less than $100,000; (b)
contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles costing less than $50,000;
[c) local training; and (d) incremental operating expenditures.
Disbursements for these would be made against statements of expenditures
to be certified by the Project Director. The disbursement schedule has
been estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and the sector
profile for the Comoros. In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, a Special Account in Comorian francs
operated by BEPE, would be established in a local financial institutiou
acceptable to the Association, with an initial deposit of about $0.5
million equivalent--to cover about three months of expenditures-which
would be withdrawn from the Credit account after Credit effectiveness. The
account would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, to be
provided to the Bank Group by the BEPE, of payments made from the account
for goods and services required for the project eligible for financing
under the Credit.
Monitoring and Auditing
55.       Semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to the Bank.  The
Government would prepare a completion report assessing attainment of
project objectives, project implementation and initial operation, costs and
benefits, the performance of the Government, IDA and other agencies
involved, and lessons learned. In addition, BEPE would maintain separate
accounts for all project activities, in conformity with national accounting
practices and normal Government financial control procedures which are
satisfactory. BEPE would submit to the Association an annual report
summarizing the financial situation of all project operations.  Auditing
would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures financed under
the project. Auditing would be performed by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, within six months following the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year and would be financed under the proposed project.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
56.       The immediate benefit of the project would be to enhance the
capacity of the Government to use the resources it has available for
education. Sector developments would be more easily monitored, and better
planning, based on reliable statistics and sound school mapping exercise,
would lead to a more efficient use of existing resources. The professional
skills of primary and lower secondary teachers would be upgraded and, as a
result, the quality of education would be improved. The replacement of two
theoretically oriented technical education institutions by two
practically oriented vocational training schools would adapt the training
of skilled workers to the country's manpower needs. More important,
however, are the long-term benefits. As a result of the institutional
development to be promoted by the project, the education authorities are
expected to have the capacity to carry out integrated sectoral planning, to
plan and implement education investment programs, to train and monitor
teachers at all levels, to prepare, test and distribute education
materials, and to make optimum use of physical and teaching resources.
These managerial improvements are expected to result in a reduction of the
Government's recurrent expenditures in the sector.
57.       The project presents three risks with a potential impact on its
long-term sustainability. The first concerns the Government's financial
constraints. The project minimizes recurrent costs as the scope will be
limited to improvement and strengthening of existing activities. M4oreover,
making better use of existing resources would generate substantial
savings. The second risk concerns the Government's ability to implement
the project. The project includes elements to strengthen the
organizational units responsible for education planning, administration,
teacher training and project implementation. The third risk is that the
technical assistance now being provided, which is critical to the success
of the project, would not be maintained as long as necessary. The
Government has confirmed that in Its future bilateral arrangements with
France and Belgium, priority will be given to the five-year extension of
technical assistance needed for the project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber Cenable
President
Attachments
Washington  D.C.
December 23, 1986



_ 21 _                                ANNEX  1
~ ElOE IC DCICKS                                       Page  1 of  2
CTIOS C     C PP l IN 19B52
Amul  Pace of growth
Uscn            Z            1981-85        1995
OP at Maket Priem          106          100             3.4           3.0
Ireysbint                  29            27            11.2        -29.0
ConqxamtIon               121           114             7.0         -1.6
Orrent A==m  Badan        -18           -17             -             -
Rauoorce Gp               -44           -41            32.9        -25.7
frlfIVC   IN 19851
Whl added
1985
Ag4iculture                40            38
ixustry                    15            14
Serviem                    51            47
I
GOhERMI FDWC! 1985
C billio      2 of GP
Orrent reei:pts                                 5.9            13
Crret experitures                               9.1            19
Oxret Defit                                     3.2             6
Capital Bpeditre                                 .6             1
Iccr           cpditures
Threign Fimiirg(Nec)                            8.4            18
Exter.al Gants                                 13.1           27
,E,QRMlr AND PRICES
1981   1982           1983           1984  L985
-  ThBillors of Omrian mme)              -
Money and Quasi Money                        4.8    5.8             8.3           7.1   8.2
Credit to Public Sector                      0.9    0.6            0.5            0.8    1.3
Credit to grvate sector                      3.7    3.6            4.7            6.8    4.3
(Itercua  cf GDP or rdec  Miter)
Mrmy ad Quas   Mozy                         16      16             20            16    17
GP Price Defiatw                           100    115             125           132   139
(1981-100)
edt   to Public Secor                        3       2             1              2      3
Crit tO PrivateSector                       12      10             12            15      9
1% ∂t~ffl~prices



ANNEX  1
_-22- _Page 2 of 2
O,ROS - TRADE PMIS AND CAPITAL RL4S
WAIJNEZ OF PAWS                                                         l Averge 198185)
1981     191      1983      1984    .19a5             USS m      X
(Tuss NhllMism)--
Exportsaf  oads                 16.4     19.5      19.5      7.7      15.7
s      o f goods              -22.6    -22.8    -24.3    -9.7    -25.7  Vtnilla    8.4         53
TradebaLanc                     6.2    - 3.3    - 4.9    -22.0    -10.0  love          5.3     34
Gbods and Services                                                         V1areYlamg 1.6      10
Copra       .2      1
balence                   -32.4    -27.8    -29.0    -83.5    -45.6  Others         .3      2
Transfers, Net                 24.3      16.9      17.9     29.5     28.0
Qmrent accoxnt                - 8.2    -11.0    -11.1    -31.0   -17.6  Total         15.8     100
Net muBocrrhg                  10.9      19.6     18.7      26.8     20.3
DIS6ESSISZS                  11.0     19.7      19.0     27.7     21.9  ECUN&L ISr,IE((  31
AwrtLzatiaa                  0.0    - 0.1       03    -0.9    - 1.6         1985,US MLIC(N
Otber                          - 3      - 5.2    -6.1    - 3.0        2.3
aw        in Pg ses             2.4       3.4      1.6    - 7.3       5.0
PubUc Debt          124
P-ivate Debt
Total Disburs       124
Imports of:
Rice and Meat             12.4      9.3      7.3       7.8      4.0
Petrol1e  Products        5.3       6.9      4.3       4.3      3.2    1  SEnVICE R&,1985i
23.0
RP   OF EXAC                                                                MI LflDUG, JUZ  30, 86
US 100 -C                    271.73   328.61   381.06   436.96   49.26                 US$ utilic
CF 1.000 -U$                    3.8       3.04     2.62      229      2.23  Misbxrsel        20.94
Undlsbur#ed      11.71
T.oaiL           32.65
I/ External debt sevice paynts s percentage of eports of gpods.



23 _
ANNEX II
STATUS OF LANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30. 1986) 1/
Credit
Number              Year      Borrower      Purpose           IDA    Undisbursed
----US$ million---
One credit fully disbursed.                                     5.0
1035-COM            1981      Comoros       Agriculture        5.20       1.83
1188-COM            1982      Comoros       Highway II         6.30       0.23
1:95-COM            1982      Comoros       Education          6.00       1.61
1378-COM            1983      Comoros       DBC                2.30       0.39
1408-COM            1984      Comoros       Health &
Population1        2.85      2.18
1469-COM            1984      Comoros       Rural Services    5.00        3.31
32.65      9.55
TOTAL
of which has been repaid                  -          -
TOTAL now outstanding
32.65      9.55
Amount sold                                             -                   -
of which has been repaid                                                -
TOTAL now held by IDA 21                                 32.65        -
TOTAL undisbursed                                                    9.55
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30. 1986)
None
1/ The Comoros has received no IBRD loans.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project:         January 1985 to August 1985
Appraisal mission:                     September 1985
Negotiations:                          June 1986
Planned date of effectiveness:         April 1987
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Any new major capital investment aimed at expanding secondary
school enrollment will be made in accordance with the agreed
policy of limiting growth at these levels;
(b) Any capital investment of $500,000 equivalent or more would be
subject to Bank agreement;
ec) In the period 1986/87 to 1988/89, recruitment of new teachers
will be limited to those trained at ENI and ENES;
Cd) In the period 1986/87 to 1988/89, Government-financed
baccalaureate holders will be limited to those necessary for
students attending courses at ENI and ENES, and to those high
priority areas for which no external funding is available;
Ce) Enrollment growth at lower and upper secondary levels would be: 0
percent between 1986/87 and 1988/89, 1 percent between 1988/89
and 1990/91, and 3 percent thereafter.
(f) Financing plan to increase the cost-effectiveness of education,
acceptable to IDA, including concrete and monitorable actions,
will be completed by June 30, 1987, and implemented beginning
with the academic year 1987-1988.



0                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~440
MitswrMnuAl --.
!,ChDZW'
[;> Cherani ~~SECOND EDU
IVEfjbofl   j    GRANDE  COMORE
HahdBe 8
Koumnbani
MORONI   I *
lcam ~ ~ ~       edaaj
sc - $ i i~-s %i
al  Foumbouni
Dembeni
-120. :   
Ouani
MUTSAMUDU
MOHELI
|                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hoani 
M  O    FOMBONI
Mlirngoni fo 
faa. haa.az aaaa~. ....aaaa.-..,     *         Wanani;
~.ffi.d W--w  Namchua . - -                   AANJOUA
tae, a.                               .,r ., fln
CANZONI IS
flb.347077i. **_SW                    OUENEFOU IS.
BUSINESS TEC~
ew./
_.. TANZANIA                                                              2     INDUSTRY TEC
N                         SEYCHELLES                                            CAITAL CIT
%                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAF'ITAL CITY
j               .;\ COMORUS-         0F.                                        ODTHER TOWN!
'-a  TI,, 7,_       C                 f                                -        EXISTING RJ0
., . p,.5 :lDj wo ^AJ !                                      ~      ~~~~~ ROADS UNDE'
-Lv- ~~~~~~* ~MAURIITIUS                                       J.    POFwrS
4~~~~~e"-                                                                 AIRPORTS
r                                                 -- ,    ,  - _ INTERNATIO
>    ) ,¢,0<     -   Reunion Is.  -13∞   MILES I
AFRI                                                             440



IBRD 19520
COMOROS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
120j
4,!
Duan1
MUTSAMUDU
<, :? n~Barmbao
Moyn   M'Remani
ANJOUAN
1 BISINFSS TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL TRAINING
SCHOOL-MORONI !GRANDE COMORE)
2    INDUSTRY TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL       MA YOTTE
TRAINING CENTER - CUANI (ANJOUAN)
6    CAPITALCITY                                MZlmboro
o    OTHIER TOWNS
-      EXISTING ROADS                                azum  9ne-     au
-----  ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                    Chingoni 0      OD U
.1'   PFORTS                                                     4,DZAOUDZI
4    AIRPORTS                                         Sada 
-._ - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bandele
0         20         40
OMETERS I          I
MILES'    I                 1                                                  130
0   5       t5       25
45
.JANUARY 1986






