Doc_met of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4481-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 8.2 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
March 10, 1987
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in Lhe performance
of their official duties. Its. contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR1)
Calendar Year 1986             February 1987
$1 = TRls 7.25              $1 = YRls 9.00
YR1 =$0.14                 YR11I=$0.11
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DTC               District Training Center
ERDC              Educational Research and Development Center
FOE               Faculty of Education - Sanaa University
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MOE               Ministry of Education
NIPA              National Institute for Public Administration
PTTI              Primary Teacher Training Institute
SPPTI             Senior Primary Teacher Training Institute
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Emergency Fund
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
VTC               Vocational Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                Special Drawing Rights 8.2 million (about US$10.4
million equivalent).
Terns:                 Standard
Project Description:   The proposed project would improve quality and expand
capacity of teacher training in the YAR, which is
expected to lead to improved education quality and
major long-term recurrent cost savings. Specifically,
the proposed project would: (a) improve the
administrative and planning capability of the
Directorate of Teacher Training through the
introductiou of an appropriate information system and
training of Directorate staff; (b) improve the
quality and efficiency of the primary teacher training
system through the training of administrative and
teaching staff and by establishing a trainer training
program for primary teachers; (c) increase the supply
of qualified Yemeni primary teachers by establishing
five new primary teacher training institutes (PTTIs)
and relocating an' expanding one PTTI; and (d) assist
the Faculty of Education (FOE), Sanaa University,
train its education faculty and improve its teaching
facilities, and develop a long-term strategy for
secondary school teacher training.
Benefits:              The major benefit of the proposed project would be the
replacement of foreign teachers by Yemeni teachers in
the primary school teaching force by the end of the
century, which would result in important long-term
savings, estimated at a total of $37.8 million between
1994 and 2000, much of which would be in foreign
exchange. Other benefits include improved education
quality, increased participation of women in the
teaching profession and improved capacity of Sanaa
university to train secondary school teachers, school
administrators and guidance counselors.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Risks:                 The main risks associated with the proposed project
relate to the Government's capacity to provide an
adequate recurrent budget for teacher training and a
possible increase in the attrition rates of teachers
because of better career prospects outside the
education system. However, in respect of recurrent
budgets the proposed project would contribute to long
term recurrent savings by accelerating the replacement
of foreign teachers with local ones.  The second risk
would be reduced by the attention given to career
development of teachers.
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign     Total
($ million)
Primary Teacher Training:
-Strengthening Department of
Teacher Training                          0.03       0.23       0.25
-Development of PTTI Training Programs    0.07        0.74       0.81
-Teacher Training Institutes               8.22       7.16      15.39
-School Maintenance Study                  0.01       0.05       0.06
Sub-Total -                          8.33      8.19       16.51
Secondary Teacher Training:
-Staff Development for FOE                 0.03       0.81       0.85
-Refurbishment and Equipment               0.15       0.43       0.59
-Pre-investment Study                      0.01       0.05       0.06
Sub-Total                            0.20      1.30        1.50
BASE COST                                 8.52       9.49      18.01
Physical Contingencies                         0.60       0.66       1.26
Price Contingencies                            0.38       0.46       0.84
Sub-Total t'                         0.98      1.12        2.10
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        9.50 i''  10.61      20.11
Including $1.5 million in local custom duties and taxes
Discrepancies in some sub-totals due to rounding



- ili -
Tentative Financing Plan:
Local     Foreig     Total
_.--($  million)
IDA                                        0.00      10.40     10.40
UNDP                                       0.69       0.21      0.90
Govermsent                                 8.81       0.00      8.81
TOTAL                                      9.50      10.61     20.11
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA/FY:            1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
--   -($ Million)
Annual                     0.70    0.70    2.00    2.40    2.00    1.60    1.00
Cumulative                 0.70    1.40    3.40    5.80    7.80    9.40   10.40
Estimated Completion Date:  September 30, 1993
Rate of Return: not applicable
Appraisal Report: Number 6463-YAR, dated March 2, 1987



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMDENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 8.2 million (approximately US$10.4 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Teacher Training Project. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is expected to participate in the
project's financing in an amount of about $0.9 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 5621-YAR) dated March 17, 1986
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country economic data are
attached in Annex I. Data on social indicators have been distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
Introduction
3.      Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and material welfare of its citizens. The republican
government which came to power following the 1962 revolution succeeded in
establishing the foundations of a modern state within a surprisingly short
period of time. Political integration and the build-up of public
institutions have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and
private sectors, while maintaining a liberal market orientation. Under the
Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First Five-Year Plan
(1976/77-80/81). the foundations of the country's physical and social
infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
Agriculture accounts for much of the coumtry's labor force and 30 percent of
GDP and is constrained by erratic and generally low rainfall and scarcity of
cultivable land. The manufacturing sector, which accounts for 8 percent of
l:DP, consists mainly of food processing, building materials and metalwork
industries and relies heavily on imported capital and intermediate goods.
Another 8 percent of GDP is accounted for by utilities and construction
leaœng over 50 percent in services.
4.      Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances by Yemeni migrants, particularly in Saudi
Arabia, and grants from the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.1 billion per year between 1977 and 1985. Largely as a result of



- 2 -
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $520 in 1985 (World Bank Atlas
metbodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed.
Recent Developments
5.       In the late 70s, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth set in
mainly because of the leveling off in the inflow of workers' remittances.
The early 80s witnessed a marked deterioration in the macrofinancial
situation, as public investment and associated recurrent expenditures
exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports resulted in
a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration was aggravated by
the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil exporting
countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the war in the Gulf. Yet,
inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because imports were
cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial against most currencies
(except the US dollar to which it is pegged). But low inflation was obtained
at the cost of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.       In 1983-86, the YAR economy slowed down considerably.  This resulted
from both the Government's efforts to control expenditures and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, the decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dhamar area in December 1982 and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and in 1984. However, increased
grain imports kept food availability at a normal level.
7.       In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA. This effort was
complemented by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to
increase tax revenue. These measures reunlted in a significant reduction in
the budget deficit in 1983, 1984 and in 1986. On the external front, imports
were restricted and, since 1983, the currency has been devalued several times
(by 50 percent in total), which resulted in a large decline in imports and a
marked improvement in the balance of payments which showed a small surplus in
1986, following large deficits in the previous years. But despite the
improvement in the fiscal and external positions and the slowdown in the
money supply's growth, considerable inflationary pressures remain in the
economy, as in 1986 the budget deficit still represented about 12 percent of
GDP and inflation accelerated to more than 30 percent per annum.
8.       Oil and gas were discovered in 1984 in the eastern part of the
country, and exports of crude oil are planned to start in 1988. The impact
of the oil discovery on the country's resource availabilities is likely to be
limited because the increase in oil revenues to the government will be offset
by the decline in workers' remittances and in grants. In the meanwhile, the
YAR Government will have to continue to constrain expenditures while
providing for downstream investments to utilize the oil and gas resources.



-3-
At the request of the Government, IDA sent a mission in March 1986 to study
the impact of oil and gas discoveries on the YAR economy, and of the
investment options in the sector. The Report was discussed with the
Government in October 1986 and will be distributed to the Executive Directors
shortly.
Malor LonR-Term Issues
9.       Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. Health indicators depict serious
problems and adult literacy and school enrollment rates are still low; the
shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
development and limits the capacity of the public administration to manage
and implement a growing and increasingly complex development program. The
Government is continuing to allocate a large share of the budget to health
and education, but in order to accelerate the expansion of these services,
further resources, e.g. from users' charges, are needed.
10.      Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The problem is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are
needed to address these problems: (i) establishing a comprehensive water
resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among the various agencies
operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing legislation to manage water
use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery policies.
11.      YAR's population growth rate is very high, about 3 percent per
annum, which affects growth of per capita income and productivity. Also,
rapid population growth reduces agricultural land per capita to levels
characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development is
severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the low
coverage of YAR's population by key social services implies a heavy burden on
the already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of rapid
population growth require that the Government develop an appropriate policy
as soon as possible. Such policy should promote the benefits of spacing
children, provide information about family planning methods and
contraceptives.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.      YAK has received large amounts of foreign assistance.  Since the
country's per capita income is low and it is designated as a "least-developed
country" by the UN, most of the aid has been previded in the form of grants
and conces!iionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, including grants,
came to around $4 billion by the end of 1985. The principal donors have been
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, the USSR, the U.S., the
Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.



-4-
13.      About one-half of the total assistance given 8O far was provided as
grants, mostly for budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia, and for food
aid and technical assistance. Food aid has been provided through the World
Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of
official grants has been made available in the form of technical asistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has
high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come.
14.      Besides these grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official
loans, chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis
on roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding
at end of 1985 was estimated at $2,559 million, of which $1,868 million
(about 50 percent of GNP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $229
million or about 12 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable, as
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and
2-1/2 percent , while USSR and Arab countries and funds have charged 2 to 5
percent and 0 to 4 percent respectively. Loan maturities range from 3 to 50
years, with an average of 20 years.
15.      External aid commitments decreased sharply in recent years:  they
fell by 66 percent in 1983, increased by 44 percent in 1984 and fell again by
60 percent in 1985 to less than 20 percent of their 1982 level. Debt service
which remained stable at about $55 million per year in 1983-84 (about 5
percent of exports) following rescheduling of USSR debt, increased sharply to
$126 million in 1985 (about 11 percent of exports). The debt service is
projected to increase substantially over 1986-90 (to more than $230 million
per year), and the budgetary burden could become more difficult to bear, if
oil production and export revenues increase slowly. Thus, the Government
should sustain its stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic
resource mobilization, refrain from borrowing on non-concessional terms,
ensure adequate levels and structure of interest rates and maintain the
flexible exchange rate policy adopted recently. This should help to improve
the external finances and restore the competitiveness of local production,
mainly in agriculture.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS '
16.      IDA has financed forty-six credits to YAR for a total of about
$440.0 million net of cancellations. This credit would be the forty-seventh
to YAR, bringing total IDA commitments to about $450.4 million -'. The
main goals of IDA's assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop
the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are
Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(P-4348-YAR), dated June 5, 1986, for the Marib-Safir Road Project
approved by the Executive Directors on July 8, 1986.
V    Not including the proposed forty-eighth credit for SDR 9.8 million
($12.3 million) for the Southern Regional Agricultural Development
Project, which is also scheduled to be distributed to the Executive
Directors on March 12, 1987.



prerequisites for development; (b) to develop production and income,
especially in the dominant productive sector, agriculture; and (c) to support
the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in rural and urban areas.
To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended fourteen credits ($147.9
million) for agriculture, fisheries and rural development; seventeen credits
($180.3 million) for infrastructure; seven credits ($73.7 million) for
education and training; three credits for industry ($22.0 million); two
credits for the petroleum sector ($14 million); a $10.5 million credit to
strengthen and expand the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff
and manage the country's health care system and. a $4.7 million credit to
provide technical assistance to strengthen the Central Planning
Organization. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made five
investments in YAR! (i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a dairy and
juice project; (ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an additional equity
contribution of $0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery project; (iii)
$3.9 million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project; (iv)
$9 million in FY86 to support the construction of an oil refinery in Marib;
and (v) $2.4 million in FY86 to help finance a citrus orchard project.
Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II
contains a summury statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1986. The attached map (number IBRD 19127R) indicates the
location of the IDA-financed projects in YAR.
17.      While IDA has been assisting the YAR Government in its efforts to
overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial problems
(para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy has remained focused on
long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; exploration for energy sources; identification of
viable industrial opportunities; and maintaining, upgrading and expanding the
physical infrastructure within the constraint of available resources. Sector
work complements both the economic work and lending operations and serves to
bridge the recoumended short- and long-ter, measures. IDA has recently
started discussing with the Government a possible change in its lending
strategy to emphasize, over the next few years, assistance to the Government
in its efforts to overcome short-term problems and prepare for a sustainable
growth path in the future. Discussions are also underway between the
Government, EMF and IDA on the possibility of a Structural Adjustment
Facility loan from the IDF to assist the Government in its short- to
medium-term adjustment efforts.
18.      After a considerable improvement in FY85, YAR's disbursement
performance deteriorated somewhat in FY86, reflecting a number of recurring
implementation problems and also the current economic and financial problems
which are causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds. So far,
disbursement performance in FY87 does not show a marked improvement over
FY86. Among the recurring problems, which are common to most countries at
YAR's stage of development, are: delays in the recruitment of consultants,
in the evaluation and award of contracts and in the resolution of contractual
issues with contractors, and in finalizing cofinancing arrangements. The



-6-
Government anC IDA are holding periodic country implementation reviews to
monitor the recurrent implementation problems more closely and to address
them promptly. Furthermore, the Government has recently introduced a number
of economic measures, of a temporary nature, designed to improve the
country's tight foreign exchange and budgetary situation and to redirect
foreign currency through the commercial banking system.
19.      Future World Bank operations, depending on the outcome of the
ongoing discussions with the YAR Government, are expected to consolidate past*
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural services to new outlying areas, accelerate assistance to the
Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the large
requirements of education and training. Particular attention will continue
to be given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the
availability of key staff and technical assistance needs. A transportation
project has been appraised and projects in the energy, urban and health
sectors are under preparation. Future operations are expected in the areas
of agriculture, energy (particularly gas development) and education. A
change in strategy, however, would possibly shift IDA's focus from such a
broad-based approach to one more concentrated on the highest priority
sectors, such as energy and agriculture.
20.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to well over $400 million equivalent
of cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTORS
21.      Background.  The rule of the Imamate, prior to the 1962 revolution,
and the decade long civil war that ensued, held back the development of an
educated population and a technically qualified labor force. Therefore, the
republican Government was faced with an overwhelming task in attempting to
provide basic education and training to the bulk of the population.   The
accomplishments it achieved are impressive. However, the rapid growth of
school enrollments since the beginning of the 1970s has placed a major strain
on the education system and the Government budget. With an enrollment of
125,000 children in primary schools in 1971, representing 121 of school age
population, primary school enrollment has increased during the past five
years from 414,000 to 781,000, representing 55% of the children in the
corresponding age group. In the same period (1980-85) secondary school
enrollment increased from 35,000 to 96,500. Sanaa University, founded in



- 7 -
1970, enrolled 11,500 students in 1986 in its eight faculties: Sharia and
Law, Arts, Science, Education, Comuerce, Agriculture, Engineering, and
Medicine. One result of this rapid growth has been deterioration in
teacher/pupil ratios from 1:42 in 1980/81 to 1:51 in 1984/85. Another result
of the rapid enrollment expansion has been the naed for a high proportion
(861) of expatriate teachers in primary and secondary schools. The salaries
of foreign teachers in 1984 represented 641 of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) budget, and much of this was in hard currency.
22.      Teacher Training.  Administrative responsibilities for teacher
training are shared. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for
primary and secondary education, including primary teacher training, whereas
the training of preparatory and secondary school teachers is the
responsibility of Sanaa University's Faculty of Education (FOE). Major
constraints are the absence of teacher trainer programs in Yemen and the
limited in-service training for Yemeni staff.
23.      Primary Teacher Training.  Currently there are two primary teacher
training programs; one at the postprimary level (grades 7-11) and the other
at the upper secondary level (grades 10-12). In 1985/86, about 10,300
students were enrolled in primary teacher training programs, up from 1,700 in
1980/81.
24.      The five-year postprimary teacher training program began in 1981/82
and was designed in particular to address the need for teachers in rural
areas. The five-year Primary Teacher Training Institutes (PTTIs) have little
difficulty in attracting trainees because they are located in rural areas
where postprimary schooling is limited and parents have few opportunities to
send their children to cities to continue their education. The five-year
PTTIs now account for 851 of PTTI enrollment. By contrast the three-year
upper secondary teacher training program has attracted trainees in major
towns where preparatory school graduates were available. These three-year
programs accounted for about 151 of the total enrollment in primary teacher
training in 1985/86. As the general school system expands, more lower
secondary graduates are expected to become available to enter the three-year
program. Enrollments in the three-year program would therefore increase and
it would become the preferred or standard primary teacher training program in
YAR. The three-year program would result in savings in teacher training
costs of approximately 40% over the five-year program. A two-year
post-secondary program (grades 13-14) is to be established at the Senior
Primary Teacher Training Institute (SPTTI) in Sanaa, in 1989. This would
represent a desirable development in the primary teacher training system and
would establish an appropriate model for the training of primary teachers
when upper secondary school graduates are available. The SPTTIs function
would be to train senior teachers, upgrade serving teachers who show
particular promise, and eventually to train trainers of teachers.
25.      Teacher Training Programs for Secondary Schools.  The Faculty of
Education (FOE) trains preparatory (grade 7-9) and secondary school teachers
in a four-year degree program. In 1984 FOE also started postgraduate diploma



courses to upgrade the skills of middle level management personnel (school
administrators, curriculum development specialists, guidance counselors). In
addition, FOE started five- to six-week duration short courses for university
graduates who, by law, are expected to render one year of national service as
secondary teachers. At present, the delivery of these Diploma Courses has
been suspended for lack of faculty and facilities at the FOE. The
Government, however, intends to restore there diploma courses soon as
adequate facilities have been located and lucal faculty are recruited.
Key Issues in Primary and Secondary Education
26.      The rapid expansion of the education system and the associated
recurrent cost implications have presented the Government with three
interrelated issues: (a) major shortages of Yemeni teachers in primary and
secondary schools ; (b) low internal efficiency, especially in primary
education; and (c) unsustainable cost of education.
27.      Teacher Shortages.  A major consequence of the rapid expansion of
the education system has been increased reliance on expatriate teachers, who
cost about 701 more than local teachers and receive much of their salaries in
foreign exchange. The number of expatriate teachers in primary schools grew
from 7,300 in 1980/81 to some 12,900 in 1984/85 (862 of the total). As a
result of this financially unsustainable development, the Government now
accords high priority to the expansion of the indigenous teacher training
system. To encourage Yemeni enrollment in teacher training, the Government,
in 1981, procmlgated a law that grants various incentives to teachers.
2.8.     Qualifications of the YAR p-imary teaching force are generally poor
because many teachers lack adequate teaching skills. The curricula for both
teacher training programs need to be revised and provision for practice
teaching improved to better prepare teachers for the operational realities in
primary schools in the YAR, which typically include crowded classrooms,
incomplete schools, and a limited supply of teaching materials. A serious
impedimnat to curriculum improvement is the shortage of local skills to
evaluate teacher training curricula and develop revised improved programs.
29.      In-service training, which is essentially underdeveloped in Yemen,
is an important factor in the career development of teachers and their
retention in the teaching force. In-service training was initiated in 1981
by the Directorate of Teacher Training, with UNICEF support, but this support
ended in 1986. There is uow greater appreciation by the MOE of the need for
in-service training for primary schools teachers, headmasters and supervisors
as a means to improve internal efficieacy and teacher retention. Further
strengthening of the in-service training system is, however, required.
30.      An issue closely related to the quality and quantity of teacher
supply in primary education is the availability of teacher trainers. At
present the 437 teaching staff in the primary teacher training system
consists of 141 Yemeuis and 296 non-Yemenis. YAR does not have local
programs yet for the training of teacher trainers. The Yemenis currently



- 9 -
teaching at PTTIs have all been trained overseas under various bilateral TA
programs, and under the ongoing IDA financed Sixth Education Project (Credit
1470-YAR). Because of this overseas training, there is now a sufficient pool
of qualified '-acher trainers in Yemen to initiate a local training program
for teacher trainers.
31.      The number of expatriate teachers in secondary schools expanded from
1,900 in 1980/81, to some 4,700 in 1984/85 (90% of the total). Although
enrollments at the FOE have increased from 700 in 1981/82 to 1700 in 1985/86,
shortages of secondary school teachers cannot be met by the turn of the
century. The FOE is considering ways to meet the need for teachers in
secondary schools within a reasonable period, but has not yet finalized its
long-term strategy. Shortages of qualified staff and adequate facilities are
the two major obstacles in meeting its immediate teacher training
responsibilities. The FOE faculty shortage caused the suspension of
post-graduate diploma courses and summer programs that prepare graduates of
the various faculties for their one-year national service as teachers.
32.      Low Efficiency of Primary Education.  Dropout and repetition rates
in primary school are high but they have improved since 1981182 when only 15%
of first grade students graduated from the sixth grade. The corresponding
rate in 1985/86 is about 28%. Among the causes of this problem are: (a) high
teacher/student ratios (1:51) and teachers poorly equipped to cope with large
classes; (b) lack of school facilities (in 1985 301 of YAR's primary schools
lacked physical facilities to acconmodate all six grades of primary schools);
(c) inadequate provision of educational materials and inadequately trained
teachers; (d) absenteeism or dropouts because of the need for children's
labor on farms, and traditional attitudes to women's education.
Consequently, improvement of retention rates is a Government priority. The
Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) emphasized the provision of additional
classrooms, the improvement of science education with USAID support and
in-service training to MOE staff and school administrators with UNICEF
support.
33.      Education Cost and Finance.  Recurrent education expenditures have
been rising steadily because of a rapidly expanding school system and the
large number of expatriate teachers in the education system. In 1978/79 the
recurrent expenditures on education totalled YRls 287.7 million and accounted
for 16% of all Government recurrent expenditures. By 1984 the total
recurrent expenditure on education had risen to iRls 1,170.9 million, or 20%
of total expenditures. In 1984, about 92% of the MOE recurrent budget (81%
of the total education budget was administered by the MOE) was absorbed by
teachers salaries and allowances. Of the MOE budget in 1984, expatriate
teachers salaries accounted for 64Z, or YRls 616 million ($115 million
equivalent at the 1984 exchange rate), much of which was in foreign
exchange. In recognition of the high cost of education, IDA, with the
support of the YAR Government, undertook a study of Education Administration
and Finance, in 1982 (IBRD Report Number 4020-YAR). In 1984, the Government
acted on the recommendations of that study by adopting policies to control
costs and to increase the financial support provided by non-budgetary sources
(paras. 34-36).



- to -
34.      The Government is increasingly concerned about the rapid growth of
recurrent costs in education and its ability to meet these costs. It has
adopted a comprehensive policy to replace expatriate teachers, control costs
and mobilize new resources. Thisrpolicy is now beginning to pay off: the
total salary bill for primary level teachers is expected to peak in 1988 and
start a slow decline thereafter (para. 57). Other policies to control costs
include: (a) improved use of resources through reductions in dropout and
repetition rates; (b) increased flexibility in the use of teachers including
multigrade teaching; and (c) gradual reduction, starting in 1990, of
incentive payments to trainee teachers.
35.      The Government has also adopted policies to promote optimal capital
investments. A school location plan is being prepared and is due to be
completed in 1987. Schools and classrooms are also being used on a
double-shift basis where feasible. School maintenance is, however, poor, and
leads to a rapid deterioration of facilities and a costly program of repairs,
renovation or replacement. The proposed project would help the Government
develop new procedures to improve school maintenance, which would lead to
further cost reduction.
36.      One of the main conclusions of the Education Administration and
Finance Study was that means of generating additional resources should be
sought. In particular, the introduction of users' charges should be
considered. In fact the Government has introduced modest charges for
textbooks, examinations, and various certification and registration expenses
(2.52 of teacher salaries). Further cost sharing of capital investment in
education is obtained through the Local Cooperative Councils for Development,
which between 1982-84 built with their own resources 2,348 classrooms at a
total estimated cost of YRls 105 million (142 of MOE investment over the same
period). A further review of education finance, including studies of policy
options, is under preparation by the Government through a study included in
the Fifth Education Project (Cr. 1340-YAR), which will examine the
feasibility of specific measures for cost recovery. The study is scheduled
to start by mid-1987.
Government Strategy
37.      The Government's development strategy in the education sector as
expressed in the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) is generally sound. The
Plan aimed at and achieved a major expansion of basic education and teacher
training and a more balanced geographic distribution of educational
opportunities, with a stronger emphasis on the development of rural areas,
greater participation of women in employment, and the development of a modern
system of technical and vocational training. The establishment of an
educational infrastructure, capable of supporting and promoting manpower
development, was a major objective of the Plan.
38.      The Third Five-Year Plan (1987-1991) is still in preparation but is
expected to focus on essentially the same strategies. Education and training
would be an important component of the Government's strategy to increase



- 12. -
production in key economic sectors. Teacher training at all levels and at
the priary level in particular would receive high priority because of the
high cost and foreign exchange involved in recruiting non-Yemeni teachers.
In line with the Government's resource mobilization policy, a key concern is
the progressive'introduction of user charges.
IDA Assistance Strategy for Education and Training
39.      IDA's lending strategy has supported the Government's plans for
establishing a modern education and training system, and has been closely
associated with the development of appropriate sector policies. IDA's
assistance strategy for the education and training sector has included the
following main elements: (i) focus on basic general education; (ii)
developing a framework of technical and vocational training programs to meet
pressing manpower requirements-thus, the assistance for District Training
Centers, Vocational Training Centers and Technical Secondary School; (iii)
teacher training, especially for primary school teachers and for women; (iv)
assisting the Government in strengthening its institutional capacity to set
sound education policy and administer programs (e.g., the establishment of
the school building unit at MOE and of the Educational Research and
Development Center) and (v) assisting the Government to control costs and
improve revenue performance in the sector. This strategy is based on a
healthy and continuous sector policy dialogue with the Guvernment, and
supported by a series of special sector studies such as those on education
administration and finance, vocational training and technical education, and
on the National Institute for Public Administration.
Experience With Past Lending
40.      IDA's involvement in education and training started in 1973 and has
played a central role in the sector. Out of seven education credits
totalling $73.7 million, two are completed. The First Education Project
(Credit 421-YAR) was approved in FY73 and completed in 1980. It expanded and
upgraded primary and secondary teacher training, established training
programs for skilled workers and junior technicians, and non-formal
training. The Project Performance Audit report (PPAR), dated December 16,
1983, noted the contribution of the project toward institutional improvements
in terms of planning, administration, and curriculum development, and the
strengthening of local capabilities for implementing school construction.
The Second Education Project (Cr. 611-YAR) of $8.0 million was approved in
FY76 and completed in 1982. It reinforced the thrust of the First Education
Project in teacher training, vocational training and basic education; it also
supported a basic training fund and the production of educational materials.
The PPAR, dated December 29, 1983, commented that implementation was timely
and effective and that educational objectives were generally met; it also
noted the impact of the basic training fund on rural development and the full
capacity utilization of the primary teacher training institutes for females.
41.      Five ongoing projects are being satisfactorily implemented.  These
projects form a cohesive core of IDA-assisted projects in the sector. The
Third Education Project (Credit 915-YAR) approved in FY80 supports the



- 12 -
Government's aim to expand agricultural secondary education and strengthen
public administration. Pre-investment studies in health-care training were
included and led to an IDA-assisted health project. The Fourth Education
Project (Credit 1203-YAR) approved in FY83 increases the utilization of
existing PTTIs and vocational training centers; it assists in training
engineers through the establishment of a Faculty of Engineering and in
improving education quality and efficiency through the establishment of the
Educational Research and Development Center. The Fifth Education Project
(Credit 1340-YAR) approved in FY84 supports the establishment of PTTIs in
rural areas, and provides further support to training centers in rural
areas. The Sixth Education Project (Credit 1470-YAR) approved in FY85
further supports teacher training by the provision of PTTIs in rural areas,
helps strengthen teacher quality through the establishment of a senior PTTI,
and provides further assistance for the expansion of district training
centers.  The Technical Training Project (Credit 1645-YAR) approved in FY86
supports the Government in implementing priority technical and vocational
education programs to alleviate shortages of technical manpower and develops
its capacity to train technical/vocational instructors locally.
42.      Lessons derived from the implementation of the abuve completed and
ongoing projects are applied to the proposed teacher training project. They
include: (a) the importance of counterpart training for institutional
development (PPAR on the First Education Project); (b) the provision of
appropriate incentives (allowances, boarding, job prospects, etc.) to
attract trainees to the teaching profession (PPAR on the First Education
Project); (c) the utilization of appropriate material for civil works (PPARs
on the First and Second Education Projects); and (d) early appointment of
directors for new project schools and training centers (PPAR on the First
Education Project).
Rationale for IDA Involvement
43.      YAR's acute shortage of qualified teachers is expected to continue
beyond the year 2000. This problem has serious educational and financial
repercussions that can be solved only over a longer ternm through measures to
increase the efficiency of teacher training institutes, increase the number,
capacity and quality of training programs, reduce the attrition rates of
teachers and encourage a greater participation of women in education. This
requires sustained Government efforts and continued suppott by bilateral and
multilateral aid donors. The proposed project is part of the needed support.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      The proposed project was prepared by the Government with IDA
assistance, and was appraised in June 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington, DC from February 11 to February 13, 1987. The Yemeni delegation
was headed by the Minister of Education. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled
"Yemen Arab Republic, Teacher Training Project" (Number 6463-YAR), dated



- 13 -
March 2, 1987, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the proposed project are sumimarized in the Credit and
Project Summary in Annex III. A map of the project area (No. IBRD 19887) is
attached.
Project Obiectives and Components
45.      The proposed project would improve the planning, management and
delivery of national teacher training programs and reduce the costs of the
teaching force. The development of high quality cost-effective teacher
training programs is expected to have a significant impact on the quality of
education. To achieve these objectives the proposed project would: (a)
improve the administrative and planning capabilities of the Directorate of
Teacher Training through the training of directorate staff and the
introduction of an appropriate information system (para. 46); (b) improve the
quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of primary teacher training by
training PTTI staff, promoting policies designed to reduce teacher costs, and
by establishing a training program for primary teacher trainers (paras.
47-48); (c) increase the supply of qualified Yemeni primary teachers by
expanding teacher training facilities (para. 49), and (d) assist the Faculty
of Education, Sanaa University, expand its programs of secondary teacher
training and develop a long-term strategy for secondary teacher training
(paras. 51-53).
Ministry of Education (MOE) Components
46.      The proposed project would assist the Directorate of Teacher
Training of the MOE to establish a coordinated system of teacher training.
It would establish an information system on teacher recruitment, training
deployment and subsequent career paths, that would monitor the effect of
Government policies intended to improve the supply and quality of teachers.
To meet this objective, the proposed project would include the following
technical assistance: (a) 12 man-months of specialist services to strengthen
planning and management; (b) 48 man-months of fellowship training in
administration and planning; and (c) 6 man-months of specialist services to
formulate a career structure to help retain teachers in primary schools.
47.      The teacher training system in the YAR continues to evolve (paras.
23-24). As better qualified secondary graduates become available, economies
in the duration of programs can be achieved. The present recourse to
incentives may no longer be necessary as increasing number of secondary
graduates become available. However, careful monitoring of the situation is
essential. Consequently, the project would strengthen the Directorate of
Teacher Training's planning capability, in particular, to conduct a review to
determine appropriate means and time schedule to reduce or phase out:
(a) the incentives paid to students and teachers; and (b) the five-year
teacher training programs in favor of three-year programs. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that this review would be
completed by December 31, 1990.



- 14 -
48.      To improve the efficiency and quality of the teacher training system
and to reduce recurrent casts, the proposed project would assist the
Government to establish training programs (para. 30) for Yemeni teacher
trainers at the senior PTTI in Sanaa. These trainer-training programs would
gradually replace expatriate teacher trainers with Yemeni trainers. The
proposed project would also strengthen in-service teacher training programs
(para. 29) through technical assistance. The pre-service and in-service
training of PTTI staff and the training of teacher trainers would require 42
man-months of specialist services and 258 man-months of fellowships in
management, teacher training, curriculum development, testing and
measurements.
49.      The proposed project would replace all foreign teachers by the end
of the century with consequent substantial savings. Without the project
there would still be 1,000 foreign primary teachers. Teacher requirement
projections are based on the assumptions that through the year 2000: (a)
demographic and enrollment patterns for primary school children would
continue at current rates (around 801 of boys and 431 of girls) until all
boys, and 701 of girls would enter grade one; (b) retention rates would
improve from the current 28X to about 58%; (c) teacher/student ratios would
remain 1:51; (d) dropout and repetition rates would be 51 for each grade; and
(e) annual attrition rates of teachers would remain unchanged at the high
current rate of 101. The proposed project would expand the existing PTTI
network by constructing, furnishing and equipping five new PTTIs, and
relocating and expanding an existing PTTI. One PTTI for women is included,
which is considered the maximum feasible expansion at the present time given
the limited availability of women trainees. To assist the Government in
carrying out an evaluation of current maintenance practices and the
development of revised procedures with a view to reducing maintenance costs,
the proposed project would also include six man-months of specialist services.
50.      To help improve the quality of teacher training programs, the
proposed technical assistance package would include an evaluation of all
programs supported by the project, carried out by July 31, 1991. A review
would then be conducted jointly with the MOE and IDA to discuss the
conclusions of the report and prepare a timetable for implementing any agreed
recommendations.
Faculty of Education (FOE) Components
51.      The proposed project would address the key issues in secondary
teacher training, specifically the lack of trained education faculty and of
facilities (para. 31), which hamper the expansion and improvement of the
secondary teaching force. Accordingly, the project would provide 540
man-months of fellowship training for 15 key staff members in specific areas
of education, pedagogy and educational management and provide short-term
fellowships for FOE senior staff (16 man-months) to upgrade their skills and
knowledge.
52.      To alleviate the serious shortage of FOE facilities, the project
would renovate the premises of an existing PTTI, located adjacent to the FOE



- 15 -
and scheduled to be used by the FOE. On completion of these improvements,
the FOE's enrollment capacity would be expanded by about 300 additional
training places in the four-year programs-200 from the Faculty of Arts, 100
from the Faculty of Science. In addition, the postgraduate diploma courses
would be restored (para. 25).
53.      The FOE, with the assistance of six man-months of specialist
services, would conduct a pre-investment study which would assess the
effectiveness of the current training program of the FOE, evaluate
alternatives for further expansion of the FOE's secondary teachers training
programs including intensive courses for all Sanaa University graduates, who
are required by law to teach for one year following graduation. The study,
which would be conducted by July 1989, would also assess teacher training
courses to graduates of faculties other than education, who intend to become
teachers.  The -esults will be discussed with IDA for follow-up action.
Project Costs
54.      The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
about $20.1 million equivalent, of which $10.6 million, or about 531, is in
foreign exchange. These costs include the construction, site development and
professional services for new buildings, renovation of existing facilities;
provision of furniture and equipment; and specialist services and
fellowships. Physical contingencies of 7.01 are assumed in the cost
estimates. Annual allowances for expected price increases on the foreign
exchange component were calculated at: 3.01 in 1987, 1.01 in 1988-90 and 3.5%
in 1991-93, and on the local component at 35% in 1987-88, 30% in 1989-90, 201
in 1991 and 15% in 1992-93.
Project Financing
55.      The proposed credit of $10.4 million equivalent would finance 98% of
the total estimated foreign exchange cost, or about 52% of the total cost, of
the project. Cofinancing by UNDP of $0.9 million would finance the remaining
21 of the foreign exchange cost and 7% of the local cost of the project. The
Government would finance the remaining 93% of local costs, about $8.81
million equivalent (44% of the total project cost).
56.      The proposed project would create incremental annual costs for
teacher training, when fully operational in 1994/95, of YRls 24 million in
operating costs and YRls 4.9 million in annualized capital costs, expressed
in 1985 prices. The former represents 2% and the latter 0.4% of MOE's 1985
recurrent budget (the latest year for which detailed actual budget figures
are available).
57.      The incremental recurrent costs for teacher training would be more
than offset in the long run, because of replacement of foreign teachers with
Yemeni teachers. As a result of ongoing and proposed training of local
teachers, the overall costs of MOE salaries and incentives in the primary
education subsector are expected to start declining in 1989. When fully



- 16 -
operational in 1994, there would be annual savings of $1.65 million, which
would gradually rise to $7.70 million by 2000. The accumulated savings
between 1994 and 2000 are estimated at $37.8 million based on 1986 costs.
Project Implementation and Management
58.      The construction, furnishing and equipping of all institutions, and
the technical assistance component are scheduled to be completed by
September 30, 1993. In order to allow sufficient time for submission of
final withdrawal applications, the closing date would be March 31, 1994.
Existing organizations of MOE and Sanaa university would implement the
proposed project. The Deputy Minister of Education would be responsible for
implementing the MOE project component. To assist him the MOE has designated
the Director of Teacher Training as coordinator for the HOE component. His
specific responsibilities as project coordinator would focus on the human
resource development aspect of the MOE project component, including thie
improved monitoring of teacher training, the identification of MOE and PTTI
staff for fellowship training, the recruitment of specialists and the
nomination of counterparts, and the monitoring and evaluation activities.
The terms of reference, qualifications and experience of specialists were
agreed during appraisal. Physical implementation aspects of the proposed
project, including building designs, supervision of construction, procurement
of equipment and technical assistance services, preparation of investment
budgets, accounting and auditing, and liaison with the Association in respect
of withdrawals and reporting, would remin the responsibility of the
existing, well staffed and efficient School Building Unit of the MOE. This
Unit would also implement the study on maintenance of school buildings.
59.      The FOE component would be tnnaged by the Dean of the FOE. Under
his general directives, the MOE School Building Unit would implement the
renovation of buildings and procure furniture and equipment. The
administration of FOE's technical assistance, including the proposed
pre-investument study, would be the responsibility of the Dean of the Faculty.
Procurement
60.      Contracts for civil works (totalling to $13.9 million, including
contingencies) would be invited separately for each of the six MOE project
institutions, and would be extended on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. Equipment and furniture (amounting to $2.3
million) would also be procured under ICB, and would be grouped in 12
packages the contents of which could typically be supplied by one supplier
and would account for an estimated 811 of the total value of equipment. All
procurement would be in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for procurement.
Contracts for furniture and equipment or groups of equipment estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not
exceed $0.3 million and which would not be expected to interest foreign
suppliers because of the variety of items in each contract, would be awarded
locally on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to



- 17 -
ID. Sundry items not exceeding $50,000 in each contract and aggregating to
a maximum of $0.25 million equivalent could be purchased on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations in accordance with local procurement procedures.
61.      To simplify technical assistance management, the MOE would obtain
specialist services and fellowships as a comprehensive technical assistance
contract. Three to six shortlisted training institutions would be requested
to submit proposals. Standard IDA guidelines would be followed for the
selection and recruitment of consultants. Fellowships for the Faculty of
Education would be awarded on an individual basis. The proposed procurement
arrangements are summarized in the following table:
-Procurement Method /a 
ICB         LCB         Other        Total
$ Million
Civil Works                       13.94        0.30                     14.24
(6.35)      (0.14)                    (6.49)
Professional Services                                        0.70        0.70
(0-00)      (0.00)
Furniture and Equipmert            2.35        0.30          0.25        2.90
(2.12)      (0.27)       (0.22)       (2.61)
Technical Assistance
and Studies                                                2.27        2.27
(1.30)      (1.30)
Total                             16.29        0.60          3.22       20.11
IDA Fnancing                      (8.47)      (0.41)        (1.52)     (10.40)
/a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA credit. Cos'-- include coutingencies.
Status of Project Preparation
62.      The proposed project is at an advanced state of preparation.  All
sites have been selected and 2 sites have already been acquired. Moreover,
about 45 percent of the construction items are ready for contract award and
the remaining items are ready for bidding. Equipment lists exist, and the
technical assistance package has been fully defined.



- 18 -
Disbursements
63.      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i) Civil Works: 46% of the total expenditures;
(ii)  Equipment, furuiture, books and educational materials:
100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
items, 100% of the ex-factory expenditures for locally
manufactured items, and 85% of the expenditures for locally
procured items; and
(iii) Technical assistance: 100% of foreign expenditures for
consultant services and fellowships.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by March 1994, about seven years
after credit signature.  The estimated disbursement profile, which is one year
sborter than the country profile for YAR, is reasonable because of the
advanced stage of project preparation.
64.       Withdrawal applications against contracts for goods and services
exceeding $50,000 equivalent would be supported by normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures. In order to facilitate timely withdrawal of the
proceeds of the credit, the Borrower will open, maintain and operate a special
account with the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The initial deposit would be around $0.6 million equivalent, based on
the estimated disbursement schedule and on four-month average period of
project expenditure to be channeled through the Special Account.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       A comparison of recurrent costs with and without the proposed
project shows that the proposed project would (in 1985 prices) require
annually about YRls 24 million ($3.8 million equivalent) in operating costs
and YRls 4.9 million ($0.6 million equivalent) in annualized capital costs,
when fully operational in 1994/95. Through replacement of expatriate teachers
and strengthened planning and resource use capabilities, the project would,
however, generate savings in salaries and incentives that would more than
counterbalance project operating costs. These long-term recurrent cost
savings are estimated to total $37.8 million between 1994-2000, much of which
would be in foreign exchange.
66.       The proposed project would improve the ability of MOE staff to plan
and manage the teacher training system through staff development. Planning
would be further enhanced by the establishment of an information system to
provide management with feed-back on the effects of teacher training,
incentives and present career path of primary teachers. The establishment of
a trainer-training program would introduce a local capacity, so far
non-existent, to train teacher trainers who would play a major role in
improving the teacher training system.



- 19 -
67.       The direct beneficiaries of the proposed project would be the
850,000 primary school children (1986) and future enrollments, whose
achievement levels are expected to rise as a result of improved teacher
training. Moreover, additional beneficiaries of a more efficient teacher
training system would be children who are now excluded from school because of
time given to repeaters in an inefficient system, and those children who are
at underserved locations with an acute shortage of teachers. The proposed
project would also promote increased participation of women in the teaching
profession.
Risks
68.       The main risks associated with the proposed project relate to the
Government's capacity to meet the recurrent budget, and to the retention of
teachers in the teaching profession because of better career prospects outside
the education system. However, in respect of recurrent budgets, the proposed
project would contribute to financial savings by accelerating the replacement
of expatriate teachers and a gradual reduction and eventual phasing out of
incentives. In respect of the risk of teachers leaving the teaching
profession for other jobs, the proposed project would pay special attention to
career and promotion opportunities of teachers through the provision of
technical assistance to help formulate appropriate career structures and
incentives to attract and retain teachers.
PART V - RECOMBENDATION
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington DC
March 10, 1987
2lC6l



- 20 -
ANNX r
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GRO1TN ()
l9a5                  (Constant Price)
(Sm - Current Prices)        FY1271U34      121
GNP at Market Prices               3.7181/                  5             31/
GOP at Market Prices               3.279a/                  6             34/
bmports of GNFS                    1.518                    3           -S
Exports of GNFS                      220                   13           -7
Consumption                         N.A.                    3           N.A.
of which:  Government            1.1221/                 16          -Ila/
Investment                          N.A.                    6            N.A.
Gross National Savings              N.A.                  -10            N.A.
A/: estimate
OUTPUT LAR8R FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY f1931)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
Stfln      Z    Thousand        I         I        S
Agriculture            820       33        830        69         988      47
Industry               206        8         54         4       3.815      182
Services              1.492      l2        il         27       4_6cl     22
TOTAL/AVERAGE    2J1i       10in                100        2.094    1in
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mlni
% of GNP
1978U79 1979/80   1981    naz    122    1221        115        19f8i
Current Receipts              2.161   2.755    3.329   3,692   4.401   4,646       5.366      22.2
Current Expenditures          1.847   2.531    3.325   5,286   6,201   5.957       6.064      25.1
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)  314      224         4  -1.594  -1,800  -1.307       -698      -2.9
Capital Expenditures          2.618   2.492    3.683   4,017   2,944   3.100       2,848      11.8
Extrabudgetary Expenditures       -     523      792   1.764      922     967     2.140
8.900verall Deficit                 848   2,333    2,949   5,262   4.807   4.609       5.015
20.8
External Assistance. Net      1.904     976    2.436   2.956   1.752   1.563       1.414       5.9
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
-----YR…s Million Outstanding End Period…
122                1281     1215  l9M2        1985
Honey Supply                     9.180     9.905    12.519   1S.967  20,364   24.430
Domestic Credit                  4,956     7.273    11.834   15.981  20.928   2S.991
Of which:
Claims on Government          (2.017)   (4.039)   (8.4543 (12.361)(16.168) (20,430).
Claims an Privata Sector      (2.939)   (3,234)   (3.380)  (3.620) (4.760)  (5.561)
Net Foreign Assets               6.263     4,763      3.176    2.237   2,158    1.461
Other                           -2.039    -2.136    -2.491   -2.2S1  -2,722   -3,022
_____________  Pereenstgoes ------ -  -__ _ __ _
]gSZI8I   1S      1221 1n21          18      198
Honey Supply as X of GNP             63       64       69       83      100       101
Ann-ial Increase (percent) In:
Money Supply                     16        t       26       28       28       25
Consumer Price Index             11        5       3         5       13       27



- 21 -
Page 2 of Z
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS It KWn
macnz  nun  ml ima   Iu  flam  mI
Exports of Goods, fob                  3       13     18       5      10      9       9
Imports of Goods, ci             -1.250  -1,91S -1,748 -1,952 -1,765 -1,403 -1,227
Trade Balance                    £-1247  -190S.2 -1.7Z8 -ILJSZ -1755  J.JM   jl21A
Non Factor Services, net             -36      -21    -51    -37    -S    -45    -80
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                        B33    1084    788    924   1085    986    057
Official Grants                      312      148    337    468    lUG    142    102
Balance on Current Account           .13     6 =9.1   -66    IS    -_535   an    -a
H & LT Capital. net A/               lAS      Anl    aQS    iM       IgZ   i15      116
Disbursaennts on loans         (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (220)  (213)  (163)
Repayments of loans            (-10)   (-13)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)  1-471
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net         LB      2       .121     51    1Z5       i      si
Overall Balance (- 5 deficit)        170      -39   -261   -311   -213    -96   -177
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                            OEBT SERVICE RATIO I1OBSI b/
($ million)                  l2 1
Total Outstanding            2.559                                11
of which disbursed          (1.868)
A/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information compiled on
a loan-by-loan basis.
i Workers' remittances and transfers included In denominator.
EMiDA
November 1986



- 22 -
:          .                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IH THE YEMEN ARAB REPUdJC
A.  Statemit a? IDA Credits (as of September 30,  198U6) A
,                                                                       Amount (U miliion)
..Credit                                                                lln5s cancellationsl
mintSt  liar      U     trrawar           PurJose                       IDA   Undisihusrd
Seventeen credits fully disbursed                       12S.1
794    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways IIT                      11.3        0.3
805    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihbma Agriculture II              10.5       0.03
d37    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Power Distribution                10.0        0.4
880    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture III             15.0       7.1
915    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Education UII                     10.0        1.2
1025    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Fisheries Development             17.0        7.1
1067    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    S. Uplands Rural DY. UI           17.0 hI    1.7 hI
II1".    1981    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development           12.0        1.3
1203    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Sanaa Urban Developuent           15.0        7.3
1203    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Education IV                      12.0        7.2
1llt,   1902    Yemen Arab Republic    Petroleum & Geothermla Explor.  2.0           1.1
12-     1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agr. Research and Development   6.0           2.1
12&-.  1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways IV                         7.0        1.9
1294'   1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Health                            10.5        5.3
1308    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agricultural Credit                8.0        5.4
1340    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Education V                       10.0        8.4
1361    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Power III                         19.0       16.2
1413    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways V                        13.0       11.4
1441    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Urban II                          12-0       11.9
1453    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Central Highlands Ag. Devt.        8.0        7.9
1470    7984    Yemen Arab Republic    Education VI                      10.0       10.0
1547    1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial fevelopsent II          8.0        8.0
1556  -985    Yemen Arab Republic    TA to CPO                            4.7        4.7
3E44-  ?-85    Yemen Arab RepLblic    Wadi Al Jawf Ag. Devt.             10.0       10.0
:t:s- C/ 19*    Yemen Arab Republic    Technical Training                12.7       12.7
1667 g/ 1986    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Regional Ag. V             10.0       10.0
1722 rj 1956    Yemen Arab Republic    TA Petroleum Sector               12.0       12.0
1726    1986    Yemen Arab Republic    Marib-Safir Road                  1O.0       10.0
Total                                                  428.0 Vf
of which has been repaid                              Z-1
Total now held by IDA                                  425.9
Total undisbursed                                                 182.6
A/ The status of projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report on all
BankfIDA-frianced projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and ctrculated
to t'ae Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
I/ Beginning wliN Credit 1067-YAR. credits have been denominated in Special Drawing
Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dcllar equivalents at the
time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
September `o, 1986. for the undisbursed amounts.
SS Not yet cflective.
gl Excludes a credit of $11.7 million equivalent for a Power IV project, which was
approvcd by the Executive Directors on May 15. 1986. but is not yet signed.



- 23 -
ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IfC Investments (as of September 30. 1986)
(Amount in $ millians)
YEr          Obligor               TXme of Business    Lsan    Euatv   TIotal
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Praducts       3.15        --      3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983/   Yemen Dry Batteries        Cry Cell Batteries  3.25       0.91      4.16
1985
1984    National Company for       Vegetable 011        4.5B        -       4.5B
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Industries
1985    Yemen Hunt 011 Company    Oil Refinery          9.00        -       9.00
1986    Marib Agriculture Company Citrus Fruit           .40      046         I
Total Gross Commitments                        22.38      1.37     23.75
less cancellations. terminations.             2.70     0.36       3.06
repayments, sales
Total commtments now held by IFC               19.6B    [l.Q       20.69
Total Disbursed                                19.23     0.58      19.81
Total Urdisbursed                               2.40      0.4G      2.86
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $lUO,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance.
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab. Economic Developiment. a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200.50, $300,000 and $425.000.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable oE Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                  6 months
(b)   Agencies which prepared the project:           Ministry of Education (MOE),
Faculty of Education (FOE)
(c)   First presentation to IDA:                     January 1986
(d)   Departure of appraisal mission:                June 17, 1986
(e)   Completion of negotiations:                    February 13, 1987
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                 October 30, 1987
II. Special Implementation action by IDA:
None
III. Special Conditions:
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness:                  None
(b)   Other Conditions:
1.  Completion by December i1, 1990, of a study to determine appropriate
means and time schedule to reduce or phase out: (a) the incentives
paid to students and teachers; and (b) the five-year teacher
training programs in favor of three-year programs (para. 47).
2.   Conducting by July 1989, a study to assess the effectiveness of the
-     current training program of the Faculty of Education and evaluate
alternatives for further expansion of the secondary teachers
training programs. (pana. 53).



446                                                                                     4
Y E M E N  A R A B  R E P U B L I C
IDA- ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
SAUDI ARABIA
PROJECTS:
. .... Agricultural
__ Coooperative and Agricultural Credit
Bak-CACS
AA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~*                                        Agricultural Research Centers
, Demnonstration Farms
fl Groin Storage
Fisheries
Y     Fish Markets
SU   Health
PROJA  Education
-Highways
----Highway Maintenance
Power Distribution Areas
*    Power Stations
--e-Transmission Lines
U    Water Supply
.- e *   .,n~ .... Port Development
01, xi- .7,                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Urban Development
166  ~ ~~~~~~NIEXISTING FEATURES:14
-Primary Roads
-Secondary Road$
0 Gaverrnorate Capitals
*Nationail Capitals
-   Province Boundaries
-.- International Boundazries
7Elevation in meters:



RED Si.,::  FAoT
0   >  *   ''  ;  N  ' t4iM    'tW    ,                                        t, ,, s  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   QOctauh                        PROJECT                                  APPOV
*   -  H o d                                       - *              . +      { .:    x 1.-                                                         i fduccson 1                                   1973
I                            I               9; :~ |   '   ')    > ' -  ';i >   '   Horbon  }TSmc    Agdcltr   I  197S
|acrcA A, ;                           -                         5                                                      / |  "   ,   0  ||   * ,fiL,.;,," 1l,  5 E an1
\  o7    -   *   ::   i                                 : .                           \                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~+ Sonoc Waler Supply 11aSwrg  1974
140     -                            iiii                                                              -                                                  o.    -    ;  \  +crt Oevelopment 1           1977
ii                                                                                                     ___________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ atthm   pan &   url    evlo mei    17
+Highways I1                                 1972
X  :        l    -                                                                 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~       ~       ~~~~~~ Tihorno Agriculture I1  1973
>;)~~~~~~                               ~~~~                               J                                                    * Educati one DIriur                           IS74
aE saf HaybantS  *. REP.o                                                               Waler Supply       a Sewerage     1974
E Sa4ll Industry Development                  1974
*  Livestoc  Credit A Processing              1977
*  Sana'a Water Supply 11 I Sewerage          1977
Por   Oevelopment I                           19S2
Highways Ill                               1978
Tihoema Agriculture 11                     1978
* Power Distributiom                          1979
lilama Agr.culture IlI                     1979
Educaeion Ill                              1979
lbb a Oharmor Water Supply & Sewerage   1980
PEOPLE'S   DEM. REP   OF  YEMEN                                                               Tiharno Agruculture IV                      1980
N                                                    -                 ,..C                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Artisanal Fisheries I  1980
Nz,            r AJIEVU |Southern Uplands Rural Development 11                             1981
ETHIOPIA  ,r-.                                                      '"-.''                                   4 Power 1i Regional Electrification           1981
ETHIOPIAoindustrial Development                                                                                                                              1981
dfJ a ebM n          N ,~~..~rEducation IV                                                                                                           19822
Urban t                                    1982
Agricultural Research & Development        1982
Highways IV                                1982
Petroleum A Geothermal                     1982
Health                                     1983
Agricultural Credit                         1983
Education V                                 193
Gulf of Aden                                                                                                                                                       P    I t 
/o  DJIBOUTI                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Centtal Highlands Agricultural Development 11954
4/  DJIBOUTI                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highways V  1984
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eurbatin eVItpn It1934
Wadi.AI.Jaw# Agricultural Development        1985
b 's rtri.. en. uses Sn                                                                                                                                                  Second Industrial Developmenti t985
tt'.w &.Aintui .0.                                                                                                                                                       Te-chnical Assistance to Central
M'fribwt amPnning Organiratlant (CFO)                                                                                                                                                                                1985
w" m to rm v&v ftt                                               ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~0 20  40       60                                                 'Techn4lc Trcinln                            1986
Nd"At ."o rwz                                                                                     rIOEE                                                                   ihrom V RegWIoa DeielprAnon                1986
C.Sk ff d s r/ 
aintw,dfl  <p ,-   Aj                                                                                                                                                       PROJEC15 COMPLETED
MaTkbSt.P
:~ ~ ~ SnWn    wS~9



IBRD 19887
14-                                                    46
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
N                                    \                       TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
-  Dkahron                                   A ^ SENIOR PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING INSTrITuTE
*   PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTES
SAUDI ARABIA                9             NPRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTES
--SAUDI ARABIA    .'                          3-   (EDUCATION V a VI)
.                                               Q /  2<  @   FACULTY OF EDUCATION. SANA'A UNIVERSITY
t9       /l-                                          MAIN ROADS
.. -0                                                                       S t5SAADAH  SECONDARY ROADS
-.-2WADIS
m    DAM
'    NATIONAL CAPITALS
0   ODITES. TOWNS AND VILLAGES
4   MAIN PORTS
_  \   >-79HozId             j \              rl/            *4 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
-v \ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.I A- RINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,,          !4       ~~H  A  J J A          Khmr        MARIB1
10                                                                                                                       1
Ab1   Z    5<  (s A N A '                                          20 a   8    °MILES 4    0
o     20    40    60 8    o
L04. i                 Haii                            j                             ImrunKILOMETERS
2 \ BclijiI} ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Manlh<)-Hrib o
h~~~~~~~~~
Khsh _            X X          ir °b
C ZCJ~VW2    MAHWV                                           MAPIB DA
/                                                                             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iP
RED  SEA                            Aa -  Bei                         * A H
^ < -| 11 <> k !~~~~~~~ PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
'4 A | 5 ~~~~tm          Fo sh              JA>
V
ETHIOPIA   h -z                      K                        
A~~~
jam3~~~~~~m                                                       -
j  -   Gulf-  of Aden,-                                                                       .   ___ 
i~                               .i .-i                                                    -* .,-, ;-af. ' .f 'L   , ..__
_ F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ te'''   f~lVflvm~  -  ;   -  -0 -        
. :-:. -    -                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 1986
,   .   .                                                                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rde



