Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1773 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Teacher Training Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 26, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1773 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 1987, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Development 
Program a grant in an amount equivalent to about $900,000 to assist in financing the 
technical assistance requirements of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Page  2
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings , therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"FOE" means the Faculty of Education of Sana'a University of the 
Borrower;
(c)
"PTTI" means any of the primary teacher training institutes of the MOE 
and "SPTTI" means the Senior Primary Teacher Training Institute in Sana'a; and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
8,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as, may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
Provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
Page  3
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 
1, 1997, and ending March 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on March 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project
through MOE and Part B of the Project through FOE with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial and educational practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and specialists' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOE (i) by July 31, 1991, or such 
other date as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon, to complete the 
evaluation of the primary teacher
training programs, referred to in Part A (3) of the Project, and to furnish to the 
Association the findings and recommendations thereof; and (ii) thereafter, to exchange 
views with the Association on the feasibility of implementing such recommendations and 
the time framework for such implementation.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FOE (i) by July 31, 1989, to complete the 
pre-investment study, referred to in Part B (2) of the Project, and to provide its 
findings to the Association, and (II) thereafter, to discuss such findings with the 
Association with a view to preparing an action program for improving and expanding the 
activities of FOE.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and discuss with the Association, 
by December 31, 1990, or such other date as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon, a plan for (i) the
gradual termination of the five-year teacher training programs and for corresponding 
expansion of the three-year teacher training programs and (ii) the establishment of a 
career development plan for Yemeni teachers; and (b) implement such plan in accordance 
with a time schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  4
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 120 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of the Central Planning 
Organization of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CENPLAN
2266 CENPLAN YE
SANA'A
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  5
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. J. Stoutjesdijk
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works                      4,650,000        46%
(2) Equipment                  1,890,000        100% of foreign
    and Furniture                               expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                85% of local ex-
                                                penditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3) Training and                 950,000        100% of foreign
    Fellowships                                 expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  710,000
         TOTAL                 8,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  6
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions, of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve and expand the Borrower's capacity 
for primary and secondary teacher training. The Project consists of the following 
parts, subject to such
modification thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to 
time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Ministry of Education (MOE)
 
1.
Assistance to the Directorate of Teacher Training of MOE in establishing, with 
the assistance of specialists, a coordinated planning system through (a) the 
establishment of an information system on teacher recruitment, training and career 
opportunities, including the provision of training fellowships; (b) the carrying out 
of a study of the career development path of teachers; and (c) the provision of 
training fellowships for the staff of the Directorate of Teacher Training.
2.
Expansion and improvement of the primary teacher training system, through (a) 
the establishment, with the assistance of specialists, at the SPTTI, of training 
programs for teacher
trainers, including the development of curricula and methodology, the design of 
instructional materials and of measurement and evaluation procedures and the training 
of staff; (b) the construction, furnishing and equipping of four new PTTIs (three in 
rural areas at Al Mahsan in the Ibb Governorate and at Al Beida and Rada in the Al 
Beida Governorate and the fourth in an urban location at Al Mahweet), one new PTTI for 
females in Dhamar and a new building for the existing PTTI in Sana'a.
3.
An evaluation, to be undertaken with the assistance of specialists, of current 
maintenance operations of school buildings and of the effectiveness of the primary 
teacher training programs.
Part B:
Faculty of Education (FOE)
 
1.
Assistance to FOE in expanding and improving its undergraduate teacher training 
programs for preparatory and secondary school teachers through (a) the, provision of 
training fellowships; and (b) the renovation of FOE's training facilities including 
the expansion/restructuring of laboratory facilities and the provision of equipment 
and materials.
2.
A pre-investment study, to be undertaken with the assistance of short-term 
specialists, of FOE's programs with a view to preparing recommendations for its future 
expansion needs.
*   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Page  7
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for works under Part B (1) of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of not more than $300,000 in the aggregate, or for furniture and equipment 
estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $50,000 per contract and $300,000 in 
the aggregate, may be awarded on the basis of the Borrower's procedures for 
competitive bidding.
2.
In following the bidding procedures described in paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
Borrower shall ensure (a) that all bidders shall be treated equally in terms of the 
requirement of furnishing bid or performance security; and (b) that bids arriving 
after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids shall not be considered.
3.
Sundry items, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $50,000 per 
contract and not more than $250,000 in the aggregate, may be procured on the basis of 
price quotations obtained from not less than three qualified suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix I 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Specialists
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such specialists shall be selected in a manner 
consistent with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
Page  8
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such requests 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
Page  9
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
