Report No. PID6670
Project Name                     Georgia-Electricity Market Support Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       GEPE54886
Borrower                         Georgia
Implementing Agencies            Electrodispetherizatsia
2 Baratashvili St.
Tbilisi 38005, Georgia
Tel: +995 32 93 63 17
Fax: +995 32 92 37 48
Electrogadatsema
2 Baratashvili St.
Tbilisi 38005, Georgia
Tel: +995 32 98 98 21
Fax: +995 32 98 98 21
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           April 27, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 14, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         February 2, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 3, 2001
1.      Country and Sector Background. Georgia is recovering from the severe
economic decline experienced after the break-up of the Soviet Union and the
ensuing internal conflicts. The political situation stabilized and economy
started growing in 1995, accelerating further in 1996 and 1997. The economic
situation deteriorated in 1998 and 1999 as result of the external shock
triggered by the Russian financial crisis and Georgia's weak fiscal stance. In
2000, the country's performance has taken a significant turn for the better,
after fiscal adjustment and negotiations of a 3-year IMF program.
2.      The power sector experienced severe decline during the first half of
1990s. Low tariffs and toleration of non-payments for a prolonged period
resulted in severe dilapidation of physical assets, decreasing ability to
produce electricity and worsening reliability and quality of power supply.
This policy has been turning around since 1995. Tariffs have sharply
increased and collections have been permitted to improve substantially. The
power sector has been restructured to facilitate competition and transparency
trough unbundling generation, transmission/dispatch, and distribution. A new
electricity law was adopted in 1997, establishing an overall legal and
regulatory framework for the unbundled electricity sector.
3.      The Government, with support from donors (including the World Bank)
undertook a limited rehabilitation of generation and transmission facilities.
During 1998/1999, all distribution and generation assets (except those in
territories not under Government's control) were offered to strategic
investors. Close to 50t of distribution (mostly in Tbilisi) has been
privatized, along with the productive assets in thermal generation and two



major hydropower plants. However, winter supply of electricity has not yet
improved substantially due to a combination of factors: political dispatch of
electricity to non-privatized (and hence non-paying) regions outside Tbilisi,
strong resistance to energy reforms by vested interests, continued electricity
theft condoned by managers of sector enterprises, and operational difficulties
on the transmission network and Tbilsresi plant.
4.      Objectives. The main objectives of the project are to improve
reliability and efficiency of electricity supply, and improve financial and
corporate management in the wholesale electricity market.
5.      Description. The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and upgrade of
metering, system control, and communications in the transmission network and
electricity dispatch; (b) rehabilitation of the Zestafoni transmission
substation; (c) private management contracts for the Wholesale Electricity
Market and the transmission and dispatch companies; and (d) technical services
for project implementation.
6.      Financing.   The project will be financed as follows (in US$ million):
International Development Association (IDA) Credit:               27.4
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW):                             11.4
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD):                            .9
Project Beneficiaries:                                            16.9
Total:                                                            56.6
7.      Implementation. Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema, project
beneficiary and implementing organizations, in cooperation with the Ministry
of Fuel and Energy, will be responsible for project implementation. They
created a joint Project Service Organization (PSO) who will be responsible for
day-to-day project management. Once private management contractor is hired to
manage Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema (by the effectiveness of
the IDA Credit), the PSO will report to them. PSO will be assisted by
qualified international and local consultants.
8.      Sustainability. The sustainability of the project depends largely on the
degree of success in: (i) completion of privatization of distribution and
generation companies (including management contracts for non-privatized
distribution) and their improved financial performance; (ii) successful
negotiation and implementation of the management contracts for the
transmission and dispatch companies and the wholesale electricity market; and
(iii) resolution of sector's debt overhang. A successful completion of these
activities should lead to significantly better financial performance of the
sector through improved collections and reduced costs, stemming the
accumulation of debt and reducing its stock. It should also lead to better
integration of the Georgian power system into regional network, creating
conditions for a competitive and more liberalized electricity market in the
country, bringing further efficiency gains both in operation and in
investments.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector. The most
important lesson, shared by the Government of Georgia, is that improving the
governance and financial performance of the power companies and the sector
requires involvement of strategic private investors to commercialize the
sector, and establishment of independent de-politicized regulation. The first
IDA financed project in the sector (the Power Rehabilitation Project) helped
restructure and de-monopolize the sector, develop basic legal framework for
regulation, and establish an independent regulatory commission. It succeeded
in initiating the structural and regulatory reforms needed for privatization,
as well as in physical rehabilitation of important generation assets. The
project was accompanied by adjustment operations (the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit and the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit), which aimed at
-2 -



further strengthening institutional and regulatory framework and financial
position of the sector, leading to privatization of significant parts of
generation and distribution segments of the sector, improved regulation,
greater transparency in financial management, and ensuring better compensatory
social protection measures. These and other lessons learned have been
incorporated in the design of this project through decisions to: (i) contract
management of beneficiary enterprises to the private sector; (ii) ask for up-
front actions on policy and institutional issues, including continuing
progress in privatization of distribution companies; (iii) escrow local
financing funds; (iv) leverage funds and coordinate policies with other
donors; (v) leverage project conditionalities through other Bank operations;
and (vi) get all important stakeholders on board.
10.     Environmental Aspects. The project has been rated Environmental Category
B, in accordance with the Bank's Environmental Policy. The reason for this
rating was the inclusion of the transmission network components and associated
potential environmental issues. The scope of this component, however, is
rather limited, as it includes rehabilitation of only one transmission
substations out of about 400 transmission substations in the country in the
transmission network comprising the 35-kV and higher voltages. The work
involves repairs and replacement of the existing equipment; there will be no
expansion of the substations or construction of new facilities. Therefore,
there will be no resettlement or property rights issues as all work will be
executed within the premises of the existing facilities. Under bidding
document clauses, contractors will be responsible for keeping work sites
pollution-free, minimizing work-related nuisance, and returning the sites to
their original conditions. An environmental impact analysis, with proposed
mitigation measures, was carried out as part of the technical feasibility
study. The analysis found that project will have no appreciable adverse
environmental impacts, and will have environmental benefits associated with
better performance of the new and repaired equipment. The project includes
funds for conducting a system-wide environmental assessment of the
transmission network.
11.             Project Benefits. Quantifiable benefits of the investment part of
the project include: (i) increased reliability of the transmission system and
reductions in failures and forced outages as a result of equipment upgrades
and better system control; (ii) reduced transmission losses; (iii) avoided
operations and maintenance costs for the telecommunications system; (iv)
increased value of output from hydroelectric plants, with consequent
reductions in load shedding and/or savings in high cost thermal generation;
and (v) reduced system maintenance costs and avoided future capital
replacement through rehabilitation of the existing networks. Other benefits
are: improved management of the sector, increased transparency in electricity
dispatch and trade; and improved financial performance of the sector. These
benefits are system-wide and should accrue to all consumers of electricity.
12.             Project Risks. The main risks are related to failure to improve
financial performance of non-privatized distribution companies, which in
turn would endanger financial viability of the entire sector and, thus,
ability of the project beneficiaries to finance and carry out the project
(including financing the management contracts). Other major risks include
disruptions in imports of electricity and gas due to regional conflicts,
political non-tolerance of electricity dispatch according to customers'
payment performance, and failure to agree with creditors on acceptable
repayment schedule of sector's historical debts.
Contact Point:
-3-



Vladislav Vucetic, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473 3977
Fax No.: (202) 477 8518
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 1, 2001.
- 4 -



