Docunent of
The World Bank
Report No: 21317-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.1 MILLION (US$ 27.4 MILLION)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
ELECTRICITY MARKET SUPPORT PROJECT
April 9, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = Lari
Lari 2.0 = US$1
US$0.5 = Lari 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    to   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BD          Bidding Documents                                 MoFE         Minsitry of Fuel and Energy
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                       NPV          Net Present Value
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  NCB          National Competitive Bidding
ED          Electrodispatcherizatsia - Dispatch Company
EG          Electrogadatsema - Transmission Company           NS           National Shopping
EMS         Energy Management System                          OECF         Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
ESAC        Energy Sector Adjustment Loan                     PiP          Project Implementation Plan
EIRR        Economic Intemal Rate of Return                   PCB          Polychlorinated Biphenyls
EU          European Union                                    PIU          Project Implementation Unit
FARAH       Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing      PLC          Power Line Carrier
Handbook
FIRR        Financial Internal Rate of Return                 PPF          Project Preparation Facility
GEL         Georgian Lan                                      PMR          Project Management Report
GNERC       Georgian National Energy Regulatory Commission    QBS          Quality Based Selection
GoG         Government of Georgia                             QCBS         Quality and Cost Based Selection
GPN         General Procurement Notice                        RFP          Request for Proposal
GWh         Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt hours)            RTU          Remote Terminal Unit
ICB         Intemational Competitive Bidding                  SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
ICR         Implementation Completion Report                  SATAC        Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
IDA         Intemational Development Association              SCADA        System Control and Data Acquisition
IMF         Intemational Monetary Fund                        SE           Sakenergo, Dispatch Company
IS          International Shopping                            SOE          Statement of Expenditure
kV          Kilovolt                                          SPN          Special Procurement Notice
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Reconstruction Loan   TACIS    Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of
Corporation                                                   Independent Sates
kWh         Iilowatt hour                                     T&D          Transmission and Dispatch
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative             USAID        United States Agency for Intemational Development
LESP        Letter of Electricity Sector Policy               VAT          Value-added tax
MC          Management Contract                               WEM          Wholesale Electricity Market
Vice President:         Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:          Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director:         Hossein Razavi, ECSEG
Task Team Leader:    Vladislav Vucetic, ECSEG



GEORGIA
ELECTRICITY MARKET SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     10
3. Benefits and target population                                                    10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          17
2. Financial                                                                         17
3. Technical                                                                         26
4. Institutional                                                                     27
5. Environmental                                                                     29
6. Social                                                                            30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                31
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    32
2. Critical risks                                                                    33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    34



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             34
2. Other                                                                               34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            48
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     53
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        67
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      79
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    80
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   81
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             83
Annex I 1: Letter of Electricity Sector Policy                                            85
Annex 12: Poject Schedule                                                                 90
MAP(S)
Georgia Power System (IBRD 27433)



GEORGIA
Electricity Market Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSEG
Date: April 9, 2001                                Team Leader: Vladislav Vucetic
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor         Sector Manager/Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: P054886                                Sector(s): PP - Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [X] Credit    [ ]Grant     [ ]Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 27.37
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                    Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign        'Total
BORROWER                                                         7.57           9.36          16.93
IDA                                                              0.52          26.85          27.37
EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND                             0.00           0.92           0.92
DEVELOPMENT
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                   0.00          11.36          11.36
Total:                                                           8.09          48.49          56.57
Borrower: GEORGIA
Responsible agency: ELECTROGADATSEMA, ELECTRODISPETCHERIZATSIA, WEM, MOF&E
Electrodispetcherizatsia
Address: 2 Baratashvili St., Tbilisi 38005, Georgia
Contact Person: Mr. Boris Kozhoridze, General Director
Tel: 995-32-93-63-17 or 98-98-21               Fax: 995-32-92-37-48                Email:
Other Agency(ies):
JSC Elektrogadatsema
Address: 2 Baratashvili St., Tbilisi 380005, Georgia
Contact Person: Mr. Guram Javakhadze, Director
Tel: 995-32-98-98-21              Fax: 995-32-98-98-21                Email:
Ministry of Fuel and Energy
Address: 10, Lermontov Str., Tbilisi, Georgia
Tel: 995-32-93-13-84             Fax: 995-32-93-63-91               Email:



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS M):
FY         2002     -2003        2004      2005      2006
Annual    3.28        6.02      9.58       7.39       1.10                      _
Cumulative    3.28       9.30      18.88      26.27     27.37
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
AS PAD  ro  n Ma-c 2
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to improve reliability and efficiency of electricity supply, and improve financial and
corporate management in the wholesale electricity market.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
By the end of the project:
*   Reduce outage rates of the 500-kV lines and substations (see Annex 1)
*   Reduce system-wide outages from 20 hrs/yr to 15 hrs/yr (expressed in equivalent total system blackout
hours);
*   Improve collections at the wholesale level from 55% to 95%;
* Reduce losses in the subtransmission and transmission network from 15% to 12.5%.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 17000-GE            Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/21/97
The last CAS is dated Sept. 22, 1997 and is Report No. 17000-GE
The project will support all four objectives of the CAS. It will strengthen public finance by restructuring
the debt stock of the state enterprises in the sector, and stemming the accumulation of new debt through
improved management of the beneficiary enterprises and the wholesale electricity market. The project will
deepen and diversify sources of growth by improving the reliability of electricity supply to the economy
and by enhancing the climate for private investment in the sector. It will protect the environment through
reducing reliance on environmentally-harmful energy sources (kerosene, firewood etc.), and through
improved environmental management practices in the beneficiary enterprises. The project will reduce
poverty through its effect on overall economic growth and by supporting implementation of the social
protection mechanisms agreed under the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The principal sector issues include:
*   high level of non-payments and accumulated debt;
* high level of corruption;
* high degree of politicization;
* weak regional integration in Georgia and the Caucasus;
* weak management at the sector ministry and enterprise level;
* uncertain implementation of regulatory framework; and
* very unreliable electricity supply due to insufficient generation capacity (especially in winter),
deteriorated network, and inadequate control and communications systems.
- 3 -



The Government strategy to address these issues includes:
*   opening all parts of the sector to private participation to improve management and payment
discipline, attract investment, reduce corruption and depoliticize the sector;
* enhancing regulatory capacity;
* improving management of physical and financial flows at the wholesale level;
*   restructuring debt stock; and
*   improved targeting of social protection and transfer from sector to Government budget.
The Government, starting in 1996, launched a major reform in the power sector, aimed at its
demonopolization, commercialization and privatization. The first two years were used to develop a
market-oriented legal and regulatory framework, establish an independent energy regulatory commission,
unbundle the sector and corporatize the sector enterprises. Starting in 1998, the Government offered all
electricity distribution companies and thermal power plants for sale and hydropower for long-term
concessions. The high-voltage transmission network and system dispatch assets were considered of
strategic importance for national security and were not offered for privatization, but the Government is
inviting international bids to put these assets under management contracts.
Progress to date includes:
*   Electricity distribution in the capital Tbilisi, whose share in the national consumption ranges
between 40-50%, depending on the season and the year, was sold to AES, a US strategic investor,
at the end of 1998. Distribution companies outside Tbilisi have not been sold (some are still under
negotiations with investors), and will be offered for privatization again after being consolidated
into larger companies in 2001. Those which could not be sold due to the lack of interested qualified
investors, will be put under management contract with international manager through a competitive
process;
*   Two 300-MW units at the Tbilsresi thermal power plant (also known under the name of
Gardabani) -- i.e. all thermal generation capacity in the country which is operational and economic
-- was sold also to AES on April 10, 2000. One of the units was rehabilitated under the
IDA-financed Power Rehabilitation Project prior to privatization. The remaining old eight
150-MW units, six of which are not operational at all, should be either privatized or
decommissioned. The plant, as the only major therrnal plant in Georgia, plays a vital role in
country's electricity supply, particularly in winter. For variety of reasons -- corruption, sector and
corporate mismanagement, non-payments in the sector and consequent lack of funds for fuel,
maintenance, etc. -- the plant had incurred an estimated US$230 million debt before privatization,
a sizable portion of the sector's total debt estimated at about US$675 million.
*   Georgia has 17 hydropower plants larger than 10 MW outside disputed territories, most of which
are in the range of 40-120 MW. At the end of 1999, AES bought 25-year concessions for two
hydropower plants with total capacity of 220 MW. Four hydropower plants, with total capacity of
about 180 MW, are under negotiations for management contract with a Greek contractor. The
remaining plants will be offered for long-term concessions again;
*   There are three entities operating Georgia's wholesale electricity market: Electrogadatsema (EG),
which owns and operates high voltage transmission network; Electrodispatcherizatsia (ED), in
charge of physical dispatch of electricity flows; and the Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM), in
- 4 -



charge of financial settlements, established in July 1999. EG and ED, both 100% state-owned
companies, were created in 1999 and 2000 respectively, by separation from Sakenergo. The
remainder of Sakenergo, since 2000, became a company holding historic debts, with no role in
operation of the power system. Tendering process is underway for selection of private management
for EG, ED, and WEM;
*   Georgia National Energy Regulatory Commission (GNERC) was established under 1997
Electricity Law, and by now has developed a significant technical capacity and track record of
independence and good perfonnance (tariffs now approach full-cost recovery level);
*   Discounts for non-vulnerable groups were abolished, while discounts for others were capped and
budgetized. Poverty benefit for groups most vulnerable to sector reforms were established. A
donor-funded Winter Heat Program was also established.
The Bank has been supporting the Government strategy through investments, adjustmenit, and technical
assistance operations. The Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC), approved in June 1999, has been
particularly instrumental for privatization of electricity distribution and generation companies, improving
the regulatory framework, introducing greater transparency in financial management, and ensuring that
compensatory social protection measures are in place and poverty benefits paid. It is expected that the final,
second, tranche of ESAC would be disbursed by June 30, 2001.
In spite of the major progress in the institutional, structural and regulatory reforms and privatization, the
power sector is still in deep crisis. Power supply in the capital, provided by the AES-Telasi company, is
better than in the rest of the country, but is still not satisfactory in winter times. Although AES-Telasi pays
fully for electricity it buys directly from generation plants and imports (although there are some problems
with the payments to the WEM for the difference between the average WEM price and the prices in direct
contracts), the company is not able to provide 24-hrs supply due to a combination of reasons beyond its
control: it is physically impossible to isolate the Tbilisi network from the rest of the country and have it
connected to the generation plant and electricity import lines; electricity dispatch is affected by political
considerations, not just by payment records; transmission lines are subject to outages; etc. Power supply in
other areas, where distribution companies are still public, is worse and their financial perf-ormance
extremely poor due to corruption, theft, mismanagement, poor metering, disrepair, and high losses.
During the July 1999-June 2000 period non-privatized distribution companies paid only about 20% for
electricity received though the wholesale electricity market, half of which was in cash and the other half in
offsets. AES-Telasi reportedly paid 38% for electricity received through the wholesale market in the second
half of 1999, and 60% in the first half of 2000, 80% of which was in cash. (AES-Telasi buys most of its
electricity -- about 80% in 2000 -- through bilateral contracts, rather than the wholesale market.) This
situation -- an increasingly better performing distribution company in the capital and non-performing
distribution elsewhere -- is unsustainable. The Wholesale Electricity Market and the dispatch and
transmission companies do not strictly enforce payments through disconnection of non-paying distributions
for a variety of reasons: political pressure to maintain some supply to all regions irrespective of the
payment records, technical difficulties to execute selective disconnections through the transmission
network, etc. This, on one hand, creates enormous problems for the better performing distribution
companies (such as AES-Telasi) who cannot maintain regular supply to their customers as electricity gets
diverted elsewhere. On the other hand, it also creates increasing differences in the amount of supply of
electricity between the capital and other regions, creating political problems. Clearly, without major
improvement in financial performance of distribution companies outside the capital, and without better
management of the Wholesale Electricity Market and the dispatch and transmission companies to impose
market discipline on electricity trading, there is a major risk that the reform achievements in the sector
- 5 -



could be lost quickly.
The Bank agreed with the Government on a Letter of Electricity Sector Policy (LESP), which includes
principal policies during the next few years to further advance the reforms in the electricity sector
(Annex 11). The policies include privatization of all segments of the power system through sale, lease,
and management contracts, restructuring of the sector historic debts, maintaining GNERC's
independence, and maintaining prudentfiscal policies related to the energy sector (including
well-targeted social policies and payments for energy consumption of budget agencies and institutions)
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project is to address all the issues mentioned in the previous section.
There are no credible alternatives to improving performance of either the distribution sector or the
wholesale market servicing organizations without involvement of competent strategic investors and/or
international managers. The only question is what are feasible options for doing so in the Georgian political
context and legal framework, and response of international investment markets. These options differ for the
distribution sector from the wholesale market servicing organizations.
In the distribution sector, privatization of distribution companies to international strategic investors is
Government's preferred strategy. However, it appears that the interest of investors is limited at this stage
and Georgia may be unable to privatize most of its distribution (outside Tbilisi) for some time. In such
case, the fallback strategy would be to hire international contractors to manage non-privatized distribution
(with investment assistance provided by international financing institutions), improve their performance and
prepare them for privatization at a more opportune moment later. Donors (US AID and KfW) have made
grant funds available to allow the Government to hire transactions advisors to assist them in transferring
the remaining nonprivatized distribution companies to private ownership/management. The Government, in
its Letter of Electricity Sector Policy, has committed to a time-bound action plan to complete this process
by June 30, 2002.
Given the key importance of the financial performance of the distribution sector for the performance of
the wholesale market organizations and, therefore, for the success of the project, it has been agreed that
the Government will privatize all distribution companies to qualified strategic investors for which there
is interest in the market, and place all non-privatized distribution companies under management contract
with a credible international manager, through a competitive, transparent process satisfactory to IDA,
before any funds from the IDA Credit are disbursed against the investment contracts financed by the
Credit. The Government already hired a qualified privatization advisor to assist with this process.
Options for involving private sector in high-voltage transmission and dispatch, servicing the wholesale
electricity market, are more limited. There are both legal and political obstacles to privatizing these assets,
leaving management contracts as practically the only instrument. The contracts have to be supported by
investments in the physical infrastructure underpinning the operation of the market: transmission network,
metering, and dispatch. The only source of funds for such investment is public borrowing from
international financing institutions. The proposed project would provide such funds.
The project will address a range of interconnected sector issues. The introduction of private management
for transmission, dispatch and the WEM, in conjunction with the planned investments, is intended to reduce
corruption and politicization, increase financial flows and transparency, decrease technical losses, increase
the reliability of transmission and dispatch services, and improve implementation of non-discriminatory
-6 -



market rules and transmission access. It will thus improve the climate for private investment in generation
and distribution (both for further privatization and for investment in already-privatized facilities) and
enhance competition. Through increased transparency of financial flows, it will allow improved regulation.
The project will provide the physical infrastructure and institutional and managerial strengthening to enable
better functioning of the existing system and its transition toward a more efficient electricity market, both
domestically and regionally. Through restructuring the debt overhang, the project will rermove a major
threat to fiscal stability and to the sustainability of sector reforms. More efficient operation of
transmission, greater involvement of the private sector, and improved financial capacity should facilitate
regional integration in the Caucasus, through electricity trade. Improved electricity supply may enhance
integration within Georgia.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project includes the following components:
*   Rehabilitation and upgrade of metering of electricity flows in the transmission network;
* Rehabilitation and upgrade of system control;
* Rehabilitation and upgrade of telecommunications;
o Rehabilitation of a 500-kV transmission substation;
I Improvements in management information systems for the wholesale electricity market
organizations;
-   Management Contracts for the Wholesale Electricity Market and the transmission and dispatch
companies; and
i   Technical services for project implementation.
Rehabilitation and upgrade of metering. This component includes installation of energy meters in the
110- to 500-kV transmission network, which would enable metering and recording of active and reactive
electricity flows in the wholesale electricity market. The meters would record the 15-minutes energy flows,
be able to transmit information to the National Dispatch Center and the Wholesale Electricity Market
Settlement Center, and have remote and on-site data downloading and reading capabilities. The metering
system should be able to support a variety of market arrangements, from bilateral contracts to short-term
spot markets based on competitive bidding.
Rehabilitation and upgrade of system dispatch. This component includes installation of the necessary
hardware and software to enable real time acquisition of operational information from the main facilities
(power stations and transmission system substations), analysis and monitoring of the system status at the
National Dispatch Center, and control and dispatch of the power plants, load centers, and the transmission
system, to maintain a reliable, secure and economic operation, and facilitate financial settlements in the
wholesale electricity market. The main elements of the system include Remote Terminal Units (RTU) and
the corresponding local data acquisition equipment at the power plants and transmission substations (110-
to 500-kV network), System Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA), and the Energy Management
- 7 -



System (EMS) at the National Dispatch Center.
Rehabilitation and upgrade of telecommunications. This component includes installation of the necessary
communications equipment (fiber optics, power line carrier systems, and radio systems), which would serve
the communication needs of the metering and dispatch.
Rehabilitation of a 500-kV transmission substation. This component includes rehabilitation of selected
equipment at the 500-kV Zestafoni substation, including mitigation of environmental shortcomings. The
substation controls two key transmission lines -- Zestafoni-Inguri and Zestafoni-Ksani -- which are part of
the 500-kV transmission link Russia-Inguri-Zestafoni-Ksani-Gardabani-Azerbaijan (and future planned
link to Turkey). The substation also controls 110-kV lines to major industrial centers and 220-kV lines
supplying major cities (Kutaisi, Gori). As such, the substation is critical for reliable operation of the entire
transmission network in the country.
Management information systems for the wholesale electricity market organizations. This component
includes supply and installation of computerized management information systems at Electrogadatsema,
Electrodispatcherizatsia and the Wholesale electricity market (through leasing arrangements with
Electrodispatcherizatsia).
Management Contracts. In order to bring the necessary market and management expertise and improve
the commercial and technical performance of the system, the Government intends to sign two 5-year
management contracts (MC) with international firms to manage (1) the Wholesale Electricity Market
(WEMMC), and (2) the dispatch and transmission companies (T&DMC). The MCs will be awarded
through international competitive bidding, and will have a retainer and a performance based fee. A portion
of the retainer fees will be financed from donors funds. The management contractors will have the authority
and responsibility to effectively manage the companies and the WEM, including implementation of internal
organizational restructuring; reassignment of staff, hiring and layoffs; business planning; entering into
contracts with third parties; financial management; etc. The responsibilities will also include
implementation of the project.
Technical Services include:
-   Engineering, Procurement and Project Management: services of international consultants for
engineering design, procurement and project implementation.
*   Electricity Sector Debt Restructuring: consulting services of legal and financial advisors to help
the Government prepare and implement a plan for restructuring of electricity debt.
*   Transmission System Environmental Action Plan: consulting services for preparation of a
transmission system environmental action plan.
*   Audit: services of a qualified independent auditor for auditing the companies' and project financial
statements.
Incremental operating costs. This component includes the incremental costs associated with the
establishment and operation of a Project Service Organization, to be created by the project beneficiaries
specifically for implementation of this project.
- 8 -



Indicative      _       ank-      % Of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financin    Bank-
_J  S$M     Total   _ {w;SM)
SCADA/EMS                          Electric Power &     8.87      15.7      8.33       30.4
Other Energy
Adjustrnent
Telecommunications                 Electric Power &     9.49      16.8       8.20      30.0
Other Energy
Adjustment
Metering                           Electric Power &     2.32       4.1      2.10        7.7
Other Energy
Adjustrnent
Transmission                       Electric Power &    11.40      20.2      0.28        1.0
Other Energy
Adjustment
Management Information Systems     Electric Power &     1.10       1.9       1.10       4.0
Other Energy
Adjustment
Management Contract - Wholesale    Electric Power &     5.18       9.2      0.00        0.0
Electricity Market (WEM)           Other Energy
Adjustment
Management Contract - Dispatch     Electric Power &    12.21      21.6      4.05       14.8
Company (DC) and Electrogadatsema   Other Energy
(EG) Transmission Company          Adjustment
Engineering, Procurement, and Project  Electric Power &  2.89      5.1       1.95       7.1
Management                         Other Energy
Adjustment
Debt restructuring                 Electric Power &     0.25       0.4      0.20        0.7
Other Energy
Adjustmnent
Environmental Action Plan          Electric Power &     0.31       0.5      0.25        0.9
Other Energy
Adjustment
Audit                              Electric Power &     0.50       0.9      0.40        1.5
Other Energy
Adjustment
Incremental Operating Costs                             0.64       1.1      0.51        1.9
Total Project Costs                  55.16       97.5     27.37      100.0
Interest during construction                 1.41        2.5      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    56.57      100.0     27.37     100.0
Note: Interest During Construction item includes: interest during construction = USD 1,041,360; and commnitment fees
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will contribute to:
* improved climate for economic growth;
* improved financial management in the electricity sector;
* improved fiscal management and macroeconomic stability;
* enhanced climate for private participation in infrastructure;
* increased competition in electricity supply;
* greater regional integration in Georgia and in the Caucasus; and
* enhanced regulatory capacity.
3. Benefits and target population:
Quantifiable benefits of the project include: (i) increased reliability of the transmission system and reductions
in failures and forced outages as a result of equipment upgrades and better system control; (ii) reduced
transmission losses; (iii) avoided operations and maintenance costs for the telecommunications system; (iv)
increased output from hydroelectric plants, with consequent reductions in load shedding and/or savings in high
cost thermal generation; and (v) reduced system maintenance costs and avoided future capital replacement
through rehabilitation of the existing networks.
Other benefits which have not been quantified include consumer surplus associated with customer
willingness-to-pay in excess of the tariff, reduced maintenance costs associated with better scheduling and
inventory management, savings in system expansion costs through better utilization of capacity, savings in
operational manpower, improved operator training, and improved reliability through better operating procedures.
It is also anticipated that the management contracts for the operation of the wholesale electricity market and the
transmission and dispatch facilities will improve the financial viability of all power sector entities, both through
improved collections and more efficient operating practices.
The target beneficiaries of the project are the Georgian consumers of electricity, including residential,
industrial and commercial sectors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four and a half years.
Executing agencies: Electrodispatcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema
Lending and On-Lending Arrangements: The Borrower for the IDA credit will be Georgia, represented
by the Ministry of Finance. The amount of credit would be approximately US$ 27.4 million equivalent, on
standard IDA terms of 40 years, including 10 years grace. An annual service charge of 0.75 percent would
be applied on balances outstanding. Commitment fees would be charged on undisbursed balances in
accordance with the terms set annually by the Association, but would not exceed 0.5 percent. The
Government would onlend an arnount equivalent to US$ 15 million to Electrodispatcherizatsia and US$
12.4 million to Electrogadatsema for a period of 20 years, including 5 years grace. Interest on outstanding
balances would be calculated at a rate equivalent to the semi-annual IBRD Variable Rate on currency pool
loans. The Association would advise the Government of the applicable rate for each period. Commitment
fees incurred by the Government on undisbursed balances would be passed on to the subsidiary borrowers.
- 10 -



The signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia would enter into Project Agreements with the
Association, which would detail their obligations under the project.
KFW would provide a loan to the Government of DM 25 million (approximately US$ 11.4 million
equivalent). Terms for the KFW loan would match those for the IDA credit (0.75 percenr- interest, 10 years
grace, 40 years repayment). Proceeds of the KFW loan would be on-lent to Electrogadatsema for 20 years,
including 5 years grace, at an interest rate of 4.0%.
Project Management. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia will be responsible for
implementation of the of the project, except that the Ministry of Fuel and Energy will be responsible for the
Management Contract. A Project Service Organization (PSO) was established as an agency under public
law by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The PSO will have overall
responsibility for coordinating and managing all project preparation and implementation aLctivities on a
day-to-day basis. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia will be members of the Supervisory
Council of the PSO, and will participate in the selection of its General Director. Managemnent and
oversight of the PSO will be established in a manner adequate to allow the Borrower, the project entities,
and the Management Contractor to carTy out their responsibilities under the project agreements in a timely
and efficient manner. The PSO will be assisted by a qualified international procurement and project
management consultant, who will be either part of the management Contractor's team or hired by them. A
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), satisfactory to the Association, has been prepared and submitted by the
PSO. The operating costs of the PSO will be co-financed by the IDA Credit, excluding any taxes and social
charges.
Procurement (see Annex 6). The general strategy for project implementation is to procure the equipment,
goods and services in larger packages, making contractors responsible for supply and installation of
equipment. This would minimize coordination needs on part of the implementing agencies and simplify
project implementation, mitigating the risk of project delays. Equipment financed by the IDA Credit will be
organized into four supply&install contracts -- metering, dispatch (SCADA/EMS), telecommunications,
and management information systems -- and procured through the ICB procedures. The
dispatch/telecommunications contracts will require pre-qualification of bidders. The Management Contract
for Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia, also co-financed by the IDA Credit, w ill be procured
internationally also through the ICB procedure. The consultants for engineering, procurement and project
management, and for preparation of transmission system environmental action plan, will be selected
through the QCBS process, except for a small consulting contract for preparation of PSO's Operating
Manual and project accounting software upgrade which will be sole-sourced from the consultant who
installed the previous version of the software (see Annex 6). Firm to perform audit will be selected through
the least-cost selection process. Advisors for debt restructuring will be contracted through the procedure for
selection of individual consultants.
Financial Management System. Overall Status and Accountability: The financial management system
satisfies Bank's minimum financial management requirements. Even though the existing project accounting
software meets the Bank's minimum requirements, additional actions are needed to improve the
cost-effectiveness of the system and make it better suited for producing Project Management Reports
(PMRs). It was, therefore, agreed at negotiations that a new accounting software will be installed by July 1,
2001, and that the PSO should be able to prepare quarterly PMRs by September 30, 2001 (see the
time-based Action Plan in Aimex 6). The necessary improvements in the financial management systems of
project beneficiaries -- Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia -- is included in the project.
- 11 -



Reporting: Quarterly PMRs from the PSO are a part of the progress report, and are to be submitted to the
Bank within 45 days after the end of each quarter. The PMRs will follow the accrual model format (See
Annex 6). Audited annual Entity Financial Statements (Income Statement, Fund Flow Statement, and
Balance Sheet) of EG, ED, and WEM, and the Project Financial Statements with accompanying audit
reports, shall be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Audit Arrangements: Audits will be carried out annually by independent extemal auditors acceptable to
the Bank and in accordance with intemational standards of auditing (ISA). The intention is for the
beneficiary companies to pay for annual audits, but the audit for the first two years cannot be self-financed
and funds have been allocated for this from the Credit. The auditor should be selected by October 2001 and
the selection will follow Bank procurement guidelines. The scope of the annual audits will include the
project financial statements (including SA and SOE), and the company financial statements for the two
beneficiaries, EG and ED. Audited financial statements shall be submitted to the Bank within six months
after the end of the fiscal year. The auditors should be engaged for at least three years. If in the future the
auditor is to be changed, the new auditor shall be in place by October of the year to be audited.
Disbursement. Disbursements will follow traditional Bank disbursement procedures and will be made
against eligible expenditures. The Bank will make disbursements on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
for (a) contracts for goods and equipment below US$100,000, (b) consulting services contracts with firms
below US$100,000 and with individuals below US$50,000, and for (c) incremental operating costs.
Supporting SOE documentation will be maintained by the PSO and made available for review by auditors
and Bank missions. Other disbursement details are given in Annex 6.
Special Accounts for IDA Credit. To facilitate the Credit disbursement, the PSO will open two Special
Accounts at a bank acceptable to IDA. It was agreed that the financial institution holding the Special
Accounts would be acceptable to the Association provided that adequate arrangements were in place to
ensure that the Project Service Organization could (a) execute both foreign exchange and local currency
transactions; (b) arrange to open letters of credit; (c) handle a large number of transactions promptly; and
(d) receive prompt and detailed monthly statements of transactions and balances. According to the
Association's standard requirements, it would be necessary for the Association to receive assurances that
amounts deposited in the Special Accounts would not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy
amounts due to creditors of the Borrower or the subsidiary Borrowers. The Special Accounts will be
drawn upon to meet payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. The PSO will
maintain and operate these accounts under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Bank, upon
request, will make an authorized allocation of US$0.4 million equivalent for each Special Account. Initially
and until total disbursements reach US$2.6 million equivalent for each company, the allocation will be
limited to US$0.2 million for both accounts. Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly
basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever comes first.
Replenishment applications will be supported by appropriate documentation, e.g., bank statements for the
Special Accounts and a reconciliation of the bank statements against Bank records.
Escrow Accounts for Local Financing (Project Accounts). To ensure that adequate funds are available
to meet the project's needs for counterpart financing, Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia will
open special escrow accounts (Project Accounts), with an initial deposits of $150,000 and $50,000 by
Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia respectively, as a condition of Credit effectiveness.The
enterprises will be required to maintain deposits in the escrow accounts sufficient to meet local cost
financing for the coming three months.
Project Preparation Facility. The Government of Georgia has financed preparatory activities: consulting
services for the PSO, debt restructuring, and incremental operating costs for project management, through
- 12 -



the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting. The Bank's supervision will concern (i) physical implementation
of the investment components of the project and associated project management issues (including
procurement and financial management); and (ii) performance of the management contracts and associated
sectoral issues. Project supervision will require intensive interaction with the beneficiary organizations, the
Government, and the donors. The supervision effort will need to be especially intensive during the first two
years of project implementation, which will be procurement-intensive and are therefore critical for
successful implementation. This period will also be most important for the success of the management
contracts. It is estimated that about 30 staff-weeks of Bank's supervision effort will be needed during the
first two years, and 15 staff-weeks thereafter.
The PSO will monitor progress against agreed performance indicators specified in Annex 1. The PSO will
provide, on a quarterly basis, consolidated reports on project implementation progress in the PMR forrnat.
Draft annual action programs for the upcoming year will be included with the December reports for the
Bank's review and comment. The GoG and IDA will conduct joint reviews annually during supervision
missions.
The PSO will prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a project mid-term review, to be
undertaken not later than June 30, 2003. The timing of the review will be agreed at negotiations. In addition
to the topics covered under the quarterly reports, the mid-term review will include a review of the economic
viability of the project based on actual costs and benefits achieved to-date, as well as an in-depth review of
the management contracts and their performance. Based on the outcome of the mid-term review, measures
will be taken to ensure efficient completion of the project.
The PSO, with guidance from the Bank, will also prepare and submit an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) to the IDA within six months of the closing date of the IDA Credit. Included in the ICR will
be an assessment of the execution of the project, its costs and benefits, the performance of the Borrower,
SE, EG, the Bank and other agencies involved in the project regarding their respective obligations and
accomplishments, and lessons learned.
After completion of the project, Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia will subrnit to IDA a plan
for operating the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There are no technical alternatives to the installation of meters, dispatch and communication systems to
support trading of electricity and reliable and efficient operation of the power system. The proposed
technical solutions are based on well established and proven standard technical concepts and technologies,
which are being applied worldwide.
There is also no alternative to a reliable transmission network which integrates power plants and consumers
into a unified national power system and interconnects it with neighboring systems. Georgian transmission
network, built during the Soviet times and over-designed for the current level of consumption in the
country, has some structural deficiencies, particularly when operated in isolation from neighboring
networks, as has been the case during the last decade. An outage of the 500-kV line, which runs from
Russia through Georgia to Azerbaijan, leads to a disintegration of the system into several isolated parts and
likely country-wide blackouts under some load conditions. International intercormections are inadequate,
- 13 -



particularly with Turkey and, to a lesser degree, Annenia. The 220-kV interconnection with Russia,
passing through Abkhazia, is inoperable, and the 500-kV line, crossing the Caucasus mountains, is subject
to frequent outages during the winter time. Deterioration of the existing equipment -- the result of
maintenance backlogs, theft, and substandard operating conditions (overloads, low voltages, low frequency)
over the last ten or more years - is wide-spread and affected even the most critical equipment, such as
500-kV and 220-kV lines and substations. Full rehabilitation of the network would need a budget several
times larger than available for the project. The project includes rehabilitation of a single most important
500-kV substation at Zestafoni, which is critical for overall system reliability and integrity.
Transmission system is owned and operated by Electrogadatsema, a state-owned company. System
dispatch is performed by another state-owned company, Electrodispatcherizatsia. The wholesale electricity
market is administered by organization with the same name -- the Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM).
The WEM is governed by the Management Board which includes members from distribution, generation,
transmission and dispatch companies, a representative of direct consumers, and non-voting members from
the Ministries of Fuel and Energy, Economy, and Finance. The WEM is at this stage entrusted with
financial settlements and management of funds in the wholesale market, but is expected to assume
responsibilities involving administration of trading arrangements, as the market evolves toward more
liberalized competitive structure. At this time, the Board is still dominated by publicly owned companies.
Improving financial performance of the sector is the overriding objective of the ongoing market reforms and
privatization, and is driving the design of this project as well. The completed and ongoing privatization of
distribution and generation companies should lead to significant financial improvements, but need to be
complemented by better management and improved efficiency of the transmission, dispatch and market
administration segments, which are critical for stemming the financial leakages in the system, for it efficient
operation and a player in the regional markets. Involvement of private sector in these segments is the most
credible way of achieving this goal. Privatization of transmission and dispatch, as well as of market
operations, could be conceptually done in several ways, ranging from privatization of assets, through
long-term concession to privatization of management only. Privatization or even long term concession of
transmission and dispatch is, however, neither legally nor politically feasible at this time in Georgia. There
are very few countries in which transmission systems are sold or concessioned to foreigners (as the case
would likely be in Georgia), making it difficult to argue that such practice is common and free of supply
security and system development concems. There are also constitutional limits on foreign ownership of the
transmission system in Georgia. Furthermore, the optimal point of privatizing the transmission system
would be after most of distribution and generation assets are privatized (the process which is still under
way), financial performance of the sector improved, and regional electricity systems operationally
interconnected. Therefore, the only feasible option at this stage to involve private sector in operation of
transmission and dispatch systems and administration of the market is through management contracts. The
Government endorsed this strategy by a Presidential Decree issued in November 1999. Tendering process
has already started and preparation of Requests for Proposals (RfP) for both contracts is under way.
Technical proposals have been evaluated, and signing the contracts will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The management contracts will be maintained throughout project implementation.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
St    sLatest Supervision
Sector Issue                          Project                    (PSR) Ratings
. _____________________________        .______________                 (Bank-financed   proJects  only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                          Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Unreliable electricity supply due to  Power Rehabilitation Project:         S               S
insufficient generation capacity      rehabilitation of three power
(especially in winter); poor corporate   plants -- one thermal (Tbilsresi)
governance and financial performance  and two hydro (Khrami II and
Lajanuri)
(cofmanced with KfW, OECF)
(1997-2000)
Poor financial performance;           SAC I, II and III, SATAC I and        S               S
strengthening institutional organization II, SRS (1996-2000)
and regulatory framework; initiation of
privatization of electricity companies
Poor financial performance and lack of ESAC                                 S               S
funds to operate, maintain and invest in
assets; corruption; weak management
at sector and enterprise level;
implementation of regulatory
framework; privatization of electricity
distribution and generation companies
Other development agencies
Unreliable electricity supply due to   Rehabilitation of Tbilsresi
insufficient generation capacity      thermal plant (KfW, EBRD)
(especially in winter) and deteriorated    (1996-1997)
network
Rehabilitation of transmission
network (KfW) (1996-1997)
Rehabilitation of the Vartsikhe
hydro plant (KfW) (1998 -)
Rehabilitation of the Inguri
plant (EBRD) (1998 -)
Strengthening institutional organization USAID (1996-)
and regulatory framework
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank by now has accumulated considerable experience in implementation of projects and
understanding of the problems in the power sector in Georgia and in other countries in the region. The most
important lesson, shared by the Government of Georgia, is that improving the governance and financial
performance of the power companies and the sector requires involvement of strategic private investors and
establishment of independent de-politicized regulation. The first IDA financed project in the sector (the
Power Rehabilitation Project) helped restructure and de-monopolize the sector, develop basic legal
framework for regulation, and establish an independent regulatory commission. It succeeded in initiating
the structural and regulatory reforms needed for privatization, as well as in physical rehabilitation of
important generation assets. The project was accompanied by adjustment operations (the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit and the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC)), which aimed at further
strengthening institutional and regulatory framework and financial position of the sector, leading to
privatization of significant parts of generation and distribution segments of the sector, improved regulation,
greater transparency in financial management, and (to a lesser extent) ensuring better compensatory social
protection measures. The adjustment operations also proved to be a successful vehicle for coordination with
donors and with the IMF.
These and other lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of this project through decisions to:
* contract management of beneficiary enterprises to the private sector;
* ask for up-front actions on policy and institutional issues, including continuing progress in
privatization of distribution companies;
* escrow local financing funds;
* leverage funds and coordinate policies with other donors;
* leverage project conditionalities through other Bank operations; and
* get all important stakeholders on board.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower's commitment has been demonstrated by the following actions:
*   conducting a competitive selection of international firms to manage transmission and dispatch
companies and the Wholesale Electricity Market;
*   successful privatization of some major distribution and generation companies, and continuing
active effort to privatize the remaining distribution and generation assets;
*   continued commitment to sector reforns, demonstrated through establishment of the Wholesale
Electricity Market in charge of settlement and management of funds in the wholesale market,
noninterference in the work of the energy regulatory commission;
* separation of historic debts and preparation of sector debt restructuring plan;
* completion of project preparation (feasibility studies, establishment of PSO); and
*   increasing transmission and dispatch tariffs.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The project is critical to the success of the ongoing reform program, which the Bank has been supporting
since mid- 1 990s. Without the Bank, the project is very unlikely to be implemented given the role played by
- 16 -



the Bank in coordination of donors (and the IMF) in the sector, the influence of the Bank over difficult
sector reforms (particularly those which touch vested interests), and the lack of alternative external
financing available for public sector projects.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Arnex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$27.8 million; ERR = 23.4 %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Quantifiable benefits of the project include: (i) increased reliability of the transmnission system and
reductions in failures and forced outages as a result of equipment upgrades and better system control; (ii)
reduced transmission losses; (iii) avoided operations and maintenance costs for the telecommunications
system; (iv) increased value of output from hydroelectric plants, with consequent reductions in load
shedding and/or savings in high cost thenral generation; and (v) reduced system maintenance costs and
avoided future capital replacement through rehabilitation of the existing networks.
The present value of total benefits, at a discount rate of 12 percent, is US$60.3 million, while present
value costs total US$32.5 million, yielding a Net Present Value of US$27.8 million. The project EIRR is
a 23.4 percent, when reliability, loss reduction and output benefits are valued at the current tariff. A more
optirnistic valuation of these benefits (i.e. at a weighted average of tariff and cost of self-generation) would
yield a significantly higher EIRR of 55.3 percent and a Net Present Value of US$124 million. The
switching value analysis indicates that the project can maintain a 12 percent EIRR with an 85 percent
increase in capital costs or a 46 percent reduction in benefits. Details of the cost-benefit calculations and
sensitivity analyses are given in Annex 4.
Apart from the benefits noted above, there are other potentially significant benefits that are more difficult to
measure, and as such have not been quantified. These include: (i) reduced maintenance costs associated
with better scheduling and inventory management, (ii) savings in system expansion costs through better
utilization of capacity, (iii) savings in operational manpower, (iv) improved operator training, and (v)
improved reliability through better operating procedures. It is also anticipated that the management
contracts for the operation of the wholesale electricity market and the transmission and dispatch facilities
will improve the financial viability of all power sector entities, both through improved collections and more
efficient operating practices, yielding to potentially major economic benefits.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Under the Georgian Electricity Law, the tariffs of the beneficiary companies are fixed to allow recovery of
prudently incurred operating costs, including interest expenses and a return on investment. Hence, the
FIRR of the project to the implementing agencies will be limited to the allowable return on investment.
Residual financial benefits, such as O&M savings, reduced losses, etc., will flow to customers in the form
of lower electricity tariffs.
(a)    Current Financial Status and Performance of Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia:
Both Electrogadatsema (EG) and Electrodispatcherizatsia (ED) are newly formed enterprises. The former
was established by separating the HV transmission assets from Sakenergo in mid-1998. The latter was
established in February of 2001 as a separate enterprise to own and operate the dispatch assets of
- 17 -



Sakenergo. Most historic data for the two companies is merged with the historic accounts of Sakenergo,
which, in addition to transmission and dispatch, served as the wholesale buyer and re-seller of electricity.
It is impossible to extract from these accounts a reliable picture of the past performance of the
transmission and dispatch functions. Hence, the analysis of current financial performance is based on the
very short operating history of EG, and on estimates (based on a detailed analysis of Sakenergo's asset
and operating accounts) of the financial status and perfornance of ED.
Electrogadatsema: The balance sheet position of EG as of December 31, 1999 indicates a relatively
strong financial base. The current ratio was 2.4, and net working capital was GEL 121 million. Net cash
generation during the year was GEL 1.4 million, and the debt service ratio (taking into account planned
borrowings) was 3.1.
Electrogadatsema Balance Sheet
as of December 31, 1999
(million GEL)
Assets                             Equity and Liabilities
Fixed Assets (net)             412.0  Equity                              531.3
Other Long-Term Assets           0.5  Long-term Liabilities                 1.8
Current Assets                 207.3   Current Liabilities                 86.7
Total Assets                   619.8  Total Equity & Liabilities          619.8
The income statement, however, when restated to IAS, showed a loss of GEL 19.4 million. While the
company's operating margin was a positive 33 percent at current tariffs, the high level of uncollectible
accounts (from Abkhazia and nonpaying distribution companies) resulted in the net loss on operations.
- 18-



Electrogadatsema - Income Statement
Period ending December 31, 1999
(million GEL)
Gross Revenues                                         81.3
Less Nonpayments                                    (43.5)
Net Operating Revenues                                 37.9
Cost of Sales                                         (54.1)
Net Profit from Operations                            (16.3)
Profit after Tax                                      (19.4)
Net Cash Flow                                            1.4
Since transmission tariffs are calculated by dividing total revenue requirements by total sales, uncollectible
accounts will continue to adversely affect the company's profitability. There are three mechanisms for
addressing the problem: (i) the regulator can reflect the losses due to nonpayments in calculating the
transmission tariff, (ii) the government can compensate the transmission company (and other sector
enterprises) for the cost of supply to Abkhazia; (iii) the market can enforce rigid payment discipline so
that sales figures more accurately reflect the number of kWh for which payment is received. At present,
the first option contravenes the Electricity Law. The second and third options are being tested as a means
of improving the profitability of power sector enterprises, and should be reinforced by the proposed
management contracts for operation of the WEM and operation of the transmission and dispatch facilities
(see (b) below).
Notwithstanding the poor profits performance, however, the company generates significant positive cash
flow as a result of its large asset base and consequent high depreciation charges, and its relatively small
debt service obligations. Since its costs are largely fixed, profit performance is expected in improve in
direct relation to load growth. Thus, while tariffs have declined slightly in 2000 (from an. average of 1.32
tetrilkWh to 1.19 tetri including VAT), current tariff levels appear to be adequate to provide for financial
viability.
Electrodispatcherizatsia: As noted above, formal establishment of ED as an enterprise separate from
Sakenergo took place in February, 2000. The Government transferred approximately GEL 4.895 million
of net fixed assets to the new company, as well as 0.2 million of inventories. Most of the remaining assets
and liabilities of Sakenergo were transferred to a shell company (Sakenergo 2000) for later liquidation,
although some were transferred to EG. The initial balance sheet of the new dispatch company is shown
below.
- 19-



Electrodispatcherizatsia Estimated Balance Sheet
as of February 1, 2000
(million GEL)
Assets                           Equity and Liabilities
Fixed Assets (net)            4.895   Equity                            5.095
Other Long-Term Assets            0  Long-term Liabilities                  0
Current Assets                 0.200   Current Liabilities                  0
Total Assets                  5.095   Total Equity & Liabilities        5.095
Income and expenditures of the new company have been projected based on prior years' expenses of
Sakenergo related to dispatch operations. Approximately 600 employees were to be transferred to the new
company, including selected staff in the regional departments. In addition, to reflect the change in assets
and scope of operations, GNERC proposed to reduce the dispatch tariff from 0.35 tetri/kWh (including
VAT) to 0.2 tetri. This figure was later adjusted to 0.28 tetri/kWh. The projected income statement for
the dispatch company for the year 2000, based on these assumptions, is shown below.
Electrodispatcherizatsia - Projected Income Statement
Period ending December 31, 2000
(million GEL)
Gross Revenues                                   18.1
Less Nonpayments                               (8.0)
Net Operating Revenues                            10.1
Cost of Sales                                  (12.1)
Net Profit from Operations                       (2.0)
Profit after Tax                                 (2.5)
Net Cash Flow                                    (1.0)
As with EG, nonpayments represent a major part of dispatch company's losses. However, because EG
incurs substantial depreciation charges on its large asset base, the nonpayments have less impact on cash
flow. At the revised 0.28 tetri tariff, the dispatch company would be able to achieve financial viability
over the medium term, and meet its financial obligations under the project. The main concern is the
negative cash flow, which can only be met by increasing the indebtedness - and hence the debt service
- 20 -



costs - of the company. However, given that the operating costs of the new enterprise are only estimated
based on poor historic data, the current tariff is considered to be satisfactory until such time as the actual
costs of operations are known.
(b) Projected Financial Performance of Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia:
Electrogadatsema: The financial outlook for EG at the existing tariff (adjusted for inflation) is
satisfactory from the perspective of cash flow and debt service. Profitability and return on assets,
however, remain negative until 2005. This is largely attributable to relatively conservative assumptions
regarding future improvements in collections. If collections increase more rapidly, or if nonpayments are
compensated in the tariff, profitability would be restored more quickly. With this in mindl, the Association
has proposed, and the government has agreed to appoint a qualified internationalfirm under a
management contract to manage the operations of the transmission company. Part of the associated
cost would be financed under the proposed project.
The issue of long-term required return on fixed assets is complicated by the fact that the capacity of the
transmission system considerably exceeds current and projected requirements. GNERC has taken the
position that EG should earn an adequate rate of return only on that portion of revalued assets that are in
service. The Association has concurred with this position, on the grounds that allowing a. return on
unutilized assets would merely inflate the cash position of the company, at the cost of high transmission
tariffs. However, this issue will continue to be a part of the dialogue with the government, and will be
reviewed as demand increases.
The table below summarizes the highlights of financial projections through the project implementation
period and the first two years of debt service. The financial projections also show that the company is able
to finance all local costs of the project, as well as a significant amount of capitalized maintenance or
normal asset replacement out of cash flow. Detailed pro forma financial statements are included in Annex
5, Tables 5.1 - 5.3
- 21 -



Electrogadatsema - Hlighlights of Financial Projections
2000      2001       2002        2003      2004       2005        2006        2007
Tariff (tetri/kWh)      0.99       1.07        1.11       1.15      1.20        1.25        1.30        1.35
Collections Rate       55.8%     5 8.6%      62.1%      69.3%     76.7%       84.2%       88.0%       88.1%
Net Profits            (19.9)     (19.3)      (17.6)    (12.0)      (4.0)        4.0         8.5         9.8
Cash Flow               54.8       45.1        51.3      59.6       66.8        62.3        67.0        71.2
Net Fixed Assets       408.1      417.8       418.9     425.4      420.5       403.2       383.6       361.4
Long Term Debt           5.1       16.1        31.2      52.3       62.6        61.1        57.0        53.7
Incremental Financing   (2.0)      -          -          -          -          -           -           -
Requirements
Gross Capital           24.6       31.0        37.6      46.1       37.6        28.5        30.1        31.7
Investrnent
Debt Service Ratio      3.66       4.44        5.27      6.79       8.61       10.32       11.52       12.23
Retum on NRFA          -4.9%      -4.6%       -4.2%     -2.8%      -0.9%       1.0%        2.2%        2.7%
It should be noted that in negotiating the privatization of selected generation and distiibution assets, the
governnent is discussing the possible inclusion of part or all of EG's 35 kV network (including some
dedicated 110 kV lines) in the assets transferred to the new owners. The total gross value of EG's 35 kV
network is approximately 306 million GEL, and accumulated depreciation is approximately 196 million.
A sensitivity analysis, however, indicated that the loss of these assets would not have a material effect on
the conclusions regarding the financial viability of EG at current tariffs.
Electrodispatcherizatsia: The financial prognosis for ED at the current tariff is also satisfactory, both in
terms of profitability and cash flow, with the proviso that upward adjustments may be needed to counter
the projected negative cash flows over the first three years of operation. If operating costs equal or exceed
projections, shortfalls in cash will lead to the accumulation of additional debts, which will in turn lead to
ongoing losses and cash flow deficits. The table below presents the highlights of the dispatch company's
projected financial performance, assuming an increase in tariffs to 0.28 tetri/kWh (.23 tetri net of VAT) in
the latter half of 2000, and increases with inflation thereafter. Detailed financial projections are given in
Annex 5, Tables 5.4 - 5.6.
- 22 -



Electrodispatcherizatsia - Highlights of Financial Projections
2000      2001      2002     2003      2004       2005      2006     2007
Tariff (tetri/kWh)       0.20       0.25     0.26     0.27      0.28       0.29      0.30     0.31
Collections Rate       50.4%       55.8%    58.2%    61.5%     69.0%      76.6%     84.2%M.   88.0%
Net Profits             (2.5)      (0.4)    (0.1)      0.7       1.8        3.6       4.9      5.4
Cash Flow               (1.0)      (1.5)    (0.5)      0.4       1.9        4.3       5.0      5.7
Net Fixed Assets          4.9        7.1    12.8      24.6      35.1       39.2      40.5    42.0
Long Term Debt              -        1.7     6.7      18.1      27.5       30.2      26.7    25.1
Incremental Financing                1.8     0.9       0.1      (1. 1)     (1.7)        -        -
Requirements
Gross Capital                        2.3     6.1      12.5       11.4       4.9       2.2      2.4
Investment
Debt Service Ratio     (0.55)       0.02     0.24     0.77      1.35       1.91      2.28     2.48
Retum on NRFA          -541%       -86%      -1%       3%        5%         9%       121%O    13%
The required tariffs for the two enterprises reflect in part the possible inefficiencies associated with
maintaining separate regional facilities and staff for the transmission and dispatch companies, as well as
the expected lag in achieving acceptable levels of collections, and the limited cash flow of the company.
However, if the operations of the transmission and dispatch companies were merged, it might be possible
to reduce overall operating costs, particularly in the regional departments. In addition, the surplus cash
flow of the transmission company would be available to help finance some of the investment requirements
of the dispatch operations. Financial projections indicate that a merged company would be able to avoid
cash flow problems, and achieve positive returns by 2005 even in the absence of any efficiency gains. (see
Annex 5, Table 5.7 for highlights of the consolidated operations).
GNERC adopted tariffs satisfactory to IDA which should ensure the financial viability of ED and EG. It
was further agreed that the Government would examine ways to increase efficiency of system operation,
including, inter alia, merging EG and ED into a single company, to minimize the impact on tariffs
caused by dispatch and transmission being operated by separate companies. In support of internal
restructuring and enhancing the efficiency of the dispatch operations, the Government has also agreed
to appoint a qualified utility under a management contract to manage the operations oJfthe dispatch
company. Part of the associated cost would be financed under the proposed project.
(c) Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM)
During the first year of the wholesale electricity market (WEM) operations (July 1999-June 2000), 7009
GWh electricity was supplied to domestic customers. 63% of this power was supplied through WEM; the
- 23 -



rest was delivered under direct contracts between generators and wholesale customers -- distribution
companies and some larger consumers (Direct Customers). The amount of electricity contracted directly
increased in 2000 in comparison with 1999. AES-Telasi is a major customer for direct contracts. In 1999,
67% of the power consumed by AES-Telasi was procured through direct contracts, while in 2000 the
amount reached 80%. AES-Telasi was also the largest consumer of electricity, with 44% of market share.
Other distribution companies consume 35%, while the remaining 21% is consumed by Direct Customers,
mainly industrial enterprises.
According to the Market Rules, WEM should be reimbursed for the price difference between the weighted
average generation tariff and the price obtained through direct contracts. Generation companies are paid
100% for electricity delivered under the direct contracts. To illustrate, in the first 6 months of 2000
AES-Telasi paid about Lari 42 million under the direct contracts, while payments to market amounted to
15 million laris. AES-Telasi is the largest supplier of cash to the wholesale market: 65-70% of the cash
available to the market for generation companies come from AES-Telasi. About 25% is covered by other
distribution companies and just 5% by the direct customers.
The collections rate in WEM has been very poor. Collections from households were only 19% of billings in
the second half of 1999, and 27% in the first half of 2000. Collections by WEM from AES-Telasi reached
60% in 2000 (of which almost 80% in cash), a significant increase from 38% in 1999. Collection from
other distribution companies are only about 20%, and only half of it in cash, the rest are offsets. Direct
customers pay on average, 22% but most of the payment is also done through offsets. Only 3-5% of the
payments of direct customers are in cash.
For political reasons, substantial amount of power is being supplied virtually for free to Abkhazia and
South Osetia (12% of the billable electricity). During the July 1999-June 2000 period, about Lari 44
million worth of electricity was delivered to these regions, of which only about Lari 4 million was
reimbursed to the WEM by the state trough offsets.
To improve payment discipline and performance of the WEM, the Government agreed to appoint a
qualified firm to manage the operations of the WEM. EBRD has agreed to contribute a grant of Euros
1,000,000 to assist in financing this contract. The balance will be paid by the WEM itself.
As a non-profit association of market members, the WEM's only source of revenues to finance its share of
the contract is the fees paid by the members. Because the expenses of the market operator have been
relatively low to date, the fees imposed on members have represented only a tiny fraction of sales revenues
(between 0.1 and 0.2 percent). Assuming that the cost of the management contract is allocated pro-rata
among members based on total sales value, the average incremental fees would be 0.35 percent of
revenues. While this represents a substantial percentage increase in fees, it remains an insignificant
amount on a per kWh basis. At a maximum, the cost of the management contract would be 0.02 cents per
kWh (0.04 tetri) and over the 5 year period would average 0.015 cents per kWh (0.035 tetri).
In a best case scenario, this cost could be passed on to final customers in the formn of tariff increases. In
the worst case, where it must be absorbed by market members, it is expected that the appointment of a
management contractor will lead to significant improvement in collections, and hence to improvements in
the revenues transferred to market members. The avoided cost of nonpayments and payment delays should
more than compensate the members for the cost of the contract.
- 24 -



(d) Historic Sector Debts
The power sector as a whole has amassed substantial debts over recent years, both in the form of
inter-enterprises debts, and debts to suppliers, workers, the government, local and intemational financial
institutions, and neighboring countries. As part of the restructuring and privatization process, the
government has been reallocating this debt on a piecemeal basis. As part of the agreement to sell Telasi,
for example, the government agreed to defer approximately GEL 130 million in payables to Sakenergo for
99-years. It is anticipated that additional write-offs/write-downs will have to be negotiated as other
enterprises are privatized. At some point, many of these inter-enterprise debts will have to be written off.
In addition, if buyers refuse to accept obligations to other creditors, the government will have to find a
mechanism for settling legitimate obligations, through direct budgetary interventions and/or through a
surcharge on existing tariffs. Apart from these debts, there are substantial sector debts which were
incurred on behalf of the power sector but do not appear on the balance sheets of any of the enterprises.
Most of these debts relate to imports of electricity or to procurement of fuel for Tbilsresi. Annex 5, Table
5.8 lists the known outstanding debts of the sector - both allocated and unallocated - and their potential
impact on tariffs.
In consultation with the Association, the Government has adopted a Debt Restructuring Plan to provide for
the orderly rescheduling and settlement of the outstanding obligations. A copy of the Plan, together with
target dates and responsibilities, is attached in Annex 5, Table 5.9. The Plan incorporates the following
major principles:
the Government would prepare a strategy for addressing each of the debts, including renegotiation
of repayment terms, and enter into negotiations with creditors in an attempt to bring annual
repayment requirements to a manageable level;
an initial surcharge would be added to the tariff at the time of the next tariff increase (June 2001),
and earmarked for the settlement of sector debts. Once the initial outcome of negotiations with
creditors became known, the surcharge would be adjusted to ensure that debt service requirements
could be met;
the surcharge would be collected by the Wholesale Electricity Market, sequestered in a separate
account, and disbursed by the an independent settlements agent to creditors in accordance with the
repayment schedule agreed between the creditors and the government.
The Debt Restructuring Plan, including the specific targets agreed at negotiations, is a part of the Letter
of Electricity Sector Policy (LESP). Satisfactory implementation of the LESP is a conditlwon of
effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
(e) Financial Performance Criteria:
The government and implementing agencies agreed to adhere to the following financial performance
criteria:
Pre-financing of local costs: To ensure that adequate funds are available to meet the project's
needs for counterpart financing, the enterprises will be required to maintain on deposit in a
commercial bank sufficient funds to meet local cost financing for the coming three months.
Short-term Liquidity: To ensure that there is sufficient liquidity to meet current obligations, the
enterprises will be required to maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less
- 25 -



than 1.1.
Debt Service Coverage: To ensure that the enterprises maintain creditworthiness, particularly in
view of the substantial capital expenditures which will be required to rehabilitate and replace
existing assets, EG and ED will be required to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less
that 1.5 (projected net operating income divided by projected annual debt service requirements).
(9 Financial Management and Auditing
Both Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia are completing the conversion of their accounting
systems to intemational standards. The companies have qualified accounting staff in place, all of whom
have received training in international accounting practices. At present, understanding of management
accounting is limited. However, training in this will be addressed as part of the management contracts. In
addition, technical assistance will be provided under the credit to assist the companies in establishing and
maintaining separate project accounts.
Under the Credit Agreement, the companies will be required to appoint qualified auditors to carry out
audits of the companies' financial statements and project accounts to international standards, and submit to
the Association audited financial statements not later than June 30 of the following year.
Fiscal Impact:
No Government funds will be required for the project, since local financing will be provided by the project
beneficiaries. The Government will on-lend proceeds of the IDA Credit on terms much less concessionary
than the terms of the Credit to the Government, which will have a positive fiscal impact. Similarly, the
onlending terms for the KfW loan will have either neutral or a positive fiscal impact. Restructuring of the
large power sector debt may have a major fiscal impact, which will be assessed as part of the debt
restructuring exercise.
3. Technical:
Unimpeded, reliable, and efficient transmission of electricity from power plants to the consumers is
essential. This requires both the existence of adequate transmission lines and substations, and means to
continuously plan, control, and monitor the complex system operation. It also requires metering of
electricity flows with sufficient frequency and accuracy to settle numerous commercial transactions among
trading parties, which become quite complex in a liberalized, competitive market. Given the nature of the
physical processes involved, the system operation has to be centrally monitored and controlled in real time.
This needs continuous collecting of information from geographically dispersed facilities (power plants,
substations and lines) and transmission of this informnation to the central dispatch center, and vice versa --
communication of dispatch control actions (either automated or executed by personnel manning the
facilities) to locations where the actions are to be taken. Therefore, a modem power network includes an
elaborate system of data acquisition and metering devices, data transmission and communication lines,
computers and software, physically and fimctionally integrated to ensure continuously secure and reliable
operation of the system.
The transmission network in Georgia, with its associated metering, dispatch and communications facilities,
suffers from years of neglect, maintenance backlogs, and lack of investment in upgrades and new
equipment. No transmission lines and substations were constructed after 1990. Only 7 out of 25 220-,
330-, and 500-kV substations have been in operation for less than 20 years, and 8 of them exceeded 30
- 26 -



years. The existing dispatch system, with it SCADA equipment, was installed in the 1 980s. However, it is
based on old Soviet technology, which is practically impossible to maintain and expand due to a number of
reasons -- functional and technical limitations, lack of spare parts, technological obsolescence and
incompatibility with modem equipment. The SCADA included 34 facilities -- power plants and substations
-- from which information was collected. The system as designed is deficient: not all information is
acquired (e.g., equipment alarms, transformer tap-changer positions, energy counter values), transmission
speed is low, there is no capability for remote control. Furthermore, a number of the 34 remote terminal
units (RTUs) are not operational and dispatchers rely on telephones - also not very reliable -- to update
themselves on the status of the system. The telecommunications network is based on power line carriers
(PLCs), radio links, some communication cables, and leased telephone lines. About 50% of the PLCs and
about 60% of the radio network is out of operation. Metering of electricity is done by electromechanical
meters, with no remote reading capabilities, nor the capability to support time-of-day tariffs required for a
pool-based trading arrangements. Furthermore, the metering has been designed for a vertically integrated
system operated by a single company and is ill-suited for settling transactions in a restructured system with
many market participants.
The proposed project aims at repairing, rehabilitating, and upgrading the metering, dispatch and
communications infrastructure and selected transmission facilities, which would improve system reliability
and efficiency and enable better integration with the neighboring systems. The proposed technical solutions
for the metering, control and communications are based on standard concepts and proven technologies,
accepted and applied worldwide. The solutions should satisfy current and short-to-medium term future
requirements, and is open to functional and physical expansion to meet the needs further in the future.
Transmission substations are selected for rehabilitation on the basis of their importance for system
operation and the level of disrepair. The new transmission equipment to be installed will also be based on
standard and well proven technologies.
Cost estimates are based on the technical feasibility study conducted by an intemational consultants with
broad experience in this type of projects. The estimates are consistent with similar projects in Georgia
(earlier transmission rehabilitation projects financed by KfW) and the region. Physical contingencies are at
10%. Price contingencies for locally procured goods and works are based on the IMF/Woild Bank
projections for Georgia, and for imported equipment on World Bank projections for the intemational
manufacturers unit values indices.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executive agencies for the investment part of the project will be Electrodispatcherizatsia and
Electrogadatsema, two state-owned enterprises responsible for dispatch and transmission, respectively.
Ministry of Fuel and Energy will be responsible for administering the management contracts for these two
companies.
Electrodispatcherizatsia was created recently by separating dispatch functions from Sakenergo, former
dispatch-and-trading enterprise. Electrogadatsema is in charge of the transmission system, and is
responsible for investment, maintenance and operation of the network, with a large and excessive labor
force exceeding 3600. In daily operation of the network, its personnel is subordinated to system dispatchers
in Electrodispatcherizatsia, from whom it receives orders to perform switching operations in the network,
and whom it informs on any outages of equipment affecting operation of the system. Plamned network
- 27 -



outages, due to maintenance requirements, are also coordinated with Electrodispatcherizatsia.
It is important that both Electrodispatcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema acquire the necessary managerial
and technical skills and adopt appropriate internal organization and level of staffing, to be effective in their
new roles focused on technical operation of the system (as opposed to having trading functions), providing
open access to trading parties, and facilitating market operation. It is also important that both of them
become resistant to pressures to ration electricity or impose trading barriers according to the political and
other special interest of the various groups and individuals. Although these two companies do not have a
formal role in deciding to whom to supply electricity or whom to disconnect (these decisions should be
made by the WEM, based on payment records), in practice their role is vital in facilitating implementation
of such decisions. Both organizations are essential for reducing commercial and technical losses:
Electrogadatsema by preventing theft through metering and illegal lines and properly maintaining
equipment, and Electrodispatcherizatsia by optimizing network's operating configuration. Therefore,
operating behavior and performance of Electrodispatcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema are crucial to
improving collection and financial flows in the wholesale electricity market. There is a lot to be done to
optimize internal organizations and work force of the two companies and improve their operational and
financial management. Putting Electrodispatcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema under a management
contract with a competent and internationally experienced firm, and with appropriate contractual
incentives, aims to achieve these objectives.
4.2 Project management:
Neither Electrodispatcherizatsia nor Electrogadatsema themselves have experience with IDA-financed
projects, and experience with international projects in general is rather limited. Therefore, they set up a
joint Project Service Organization (PSO) to manage preparation and implementation of the project on a
day-to-day basis, staffed with Georgian professionals with experience in implementing other internationally
financed projects in Georgia, including IDA-financed power sector projects. In addition, the management
contract will include implementation of the project as an area of responsibility for the international
management contractor. This will include supervision of project implementation (including procurement,
financial management, ensuring proper quality controls) and provision of adequate project financing.
During project implementation, the PSO will report to the international management contractor, who will
have full authority over the PSO (its staffing, terms of reference, etc.). The management contractor will be
responsible to ensure that the PSO is properly assisted by additional international specialists, experienced
in engineering design, international procurement and contract management.
Project accounting procedures will be designed to serve the requirements for both traditional and
PMR-based disbursement, although it is envisaged that the project will use only the Bank's traditional
disbursement procedures. The accounting systems of the two credit beneficiaries will be reviewed during
project appraisal, when formal financial assessment will be conducted, to ensure that the beneficiaries and
the PSO fulfill the necessary fiduciary requirements.
The Ministry of Fuel and Energy will handle the approval of disbursement withdrawal applications and the
administration of invoices from the management contractors against the management contract. The PSO
will handle all the bookkeeping of the payments for management contracts. This would allow project
accounting to encompass the whole project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement of goods and equipment will be organized into few larger supply-and-install procurement
packages. This is a demanding strategy in terns of preparation of bidding documents, but should simplify
- 28 -



implementation of the project, once procurement is completed. An international consultant will be hired
through international competitive selection to help with engineering design, procurement and project
management. Management contracts will also be awarded through international competition. Some spare
parts and replacement materials for the existing SCADA and telecommunications equipment will have to be
procured from the original suppliers through direct contracting.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Financial Management Review: The financial management review for the Electricity Market
Support Project in Georgia was carried out in February 10 - 20, 2000, and updated in early April
2001 to reflect the actions taken since the initial review. These actions included establishing the
PSO, adopting terms of reference for its staff, hiring competent personnel (including project
accountant), and documented its accounting and intemal control procedures in an Operating
Manual. As result, the Bank's minimum financial management requirements have been fulfilled.
Financial Management Risk: Financial management risks in Georgia are considered high in
general. To bring the financial management risk of the project to acceptable level, implementation
of the following measures have been agreed upon: a competent, intemational management
contractor will be hired at the start of the project to manage project beneficiary companies during
implementation of the project; experienced and qualified staff at the Project Service Organization
have been hired -- and will be maintained throughout project implementation -- with significant
experience in managing intemational projects, including IDA-financed ones; an international
financial consultant will be hired to review and strengthen -- if necessary -- accounting and
intemal control procedures and routines to be documented in an operating manual, and to
upgrade the project accounting software; and an intemational auditor will be hired to audit project
accounts and financial statements of the beneficiary organizations.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) the project has been rated Environmental
Category B. The reason for this rating was the inclusion of the transmission network components and
associated potential environmental issues. The scope of this component, however, is rather limited, as it
includes rehabilitation of only one transmission substations out of about 400 transmission substations in the
country in the network comprising the 35-kV and higher voltages. The work involves repairs and
replacement of the existing equipment; there will be no expansion of the substations or construction of new
facilities. Therefore, there will be no resettlement or property rights issues as all work will be executed
within the premises of the existing facilities. Under bidding document clauses, contractors will be
responsible for keeping work sites pollution-free, minimizing work-related nuisance, and returning the sites
to their original conditions.
An environmental impact analysis, with proposed mitigation measures, was carried out as part of the
technical feasibility study, and is available in project files. The analysis found that project will have no
appreciable adverse environmental impacts, and will have environmental benefits associated with better
performance of the new and repaired equipment. The analysis found no PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls)
presence in the substation. Bidding documents for the repair, replacement, or rehabilitation of any existing
- 29 -



equipment will specify that PCBs are not to be used. The main environmental issues associated with the old
equipment are leaking of transformer oils and malfunctioning fire fighting equipment in the substations.
The project will bring environmental benefits, as the new switchgears will be of SF6 type, replacing the old
oil-based equipment, and the new transformers will have oil pits and working sprinkler systems, remedying
the existing problems. On the basis of the analysis and proposed mitigating measures, the Borrower has
prepared an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), containing specific actions to be implemented during
project design and implementation to ensure that main problems associated with the old equipment at the
facilities included in the project are alleviated. The necessary funds are included in the substation
rehabilitation financing.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The environmental impact assessment established the level of pollution (oil, electromagnetic fields) at the
substation included in the project and found that the impact was confined to the substation site. The
Environmental Management Plan identify measures to improve environmental performance of the facilities
at the substation, which include improved fire protection, continuing monitoring of electromagnetic fields
and water pollution, and soil cleaning -- if needed -- to mitigate the contamination of soil from earlier oil
leaks.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 5, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultant discussed environmental issues with the relevant Government agencies and the staff manning
the affected sites. The Government made available the environmental assessment report to the general
public, who was informed through advertisement in local press.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environment Management Plan has been developed as part of project preparation and will be implemented
as part of the project. The Plan includes measures to continuously monitor environmental impact of the
substation and mitigate the consequences of oil pollution, if needed.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The principal social issues are (i) effect of increased cost recovery for electricity on vulnerable groups; and
(ii) social impact of labor restructuring in beneficiary enterprises.
Implementation of the targeted social protection scheme agreed under the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
(in 1999) to compensate for increased cost recovery improved significantly since mid-2000, in spite of the
significant fiscal constraints. The Letter of Electricity Sector Policy, submitted by the government to IDA
states that there will be no arrears in disbursement of benefits agreed under the ESAC. As of March 2001,
The Government was current on payment of the benefits for 2000 and 2001, but there were arrears carried
over from the 1999 budget. The Government agreed to repay these arrears in 2001 as a condition under
Bank's structural adjustment lending. The project conditionality supported improved implementation of the
social protection scheme prior to credit effectiveness, but further implementation improvements can only
- 30 -



realistically be expected through policy dialogue at the macroeconomic level.
The new management contractors in the beneficiary enterprises are likely to reduce overstaffing. The law
provides for the payment of wage arrears and for severance pay at the time of layoff. The management
contractors will be required to ensure respect of the law (and are more likely to do so than existing
management), and to develop supplementary social mitigation schemes where appropriate. It should be
noted, however, that employees of the electricity sector in Georgia are not generally poor (as evidenced by
Household Survey). They are also widely-perceived (according to corruption survey evidence) to have a
high level of illegal income; special social mitigation programs for such employees may therefore not be
well-supported by the population.
The management contractors, in conjunction with the Government, will develop a public education
campaign to consult stakeholders and explain the benefits of reform to the population.
The Government, with Bank's assistance, will also request the extension of USAID's Winter Heat program,
which has been in place already for several years and which has been designed to subsidize electricity bills
of the poorest segments of population. The Government will also seek participation of other donors and
private sector in the program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries of the project are transmission and dispatch companies -- Electrogadatsema and
Electrodispatcherizatsia -- who prepared the project and will implement it. Other key stakeholders --
participants in the Georgian electricity market -- have been consulted through the Wholesale Electricity
Market. The Ministries of Environment and Telecommunications have also been included in discussions.
Georgian National Electricity Regulatory Commission have been consulted as well.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N.A.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N.A.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N.A.
- 31 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental impact assessment and an Environmental Management Plan have been completed. A
broader transmission system environmental action plan will be developed as part of the project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project depends largely on the degree of success in:
* completion of privatization of distribution and generation companies (including management
contracts for non-privatized distribution) and improved financial performance of the sector;
* successful negotiation and implementation of the management contracts for the transmission and
dispatch companies and the wholesale electricity market; and
* resolution of sector's debt overhang.
A successful completion of these activities should lead to significantly better financial performance of the
sector through improved collections and reduced costs, stemmning the accumulation of debt and reducing its
stock. It should also lead to better integration of the Georgian power system into regional network, creating
conditions for a competitive and more liberalized electricity market in the country, bringing further
efficiency gains both in operation and in investments.
- 32 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratin              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Improved performance of distribution and    H         Privatization of distribution and generation, and
generation companies (improved                        management contracts fo:r transmission and
collections and reduced losses)                       dispatch, and the WEM; consolidation of
non-privatized distribution companies under a
single management contractor; better
enforcement of payment through disconnections;
debt restructuring; however, the risk of
continued poor performance of non-privatized
assets not completely mitigated, especially
during the initial few years
Reliable electricity supply from domestic   H         Rehabilitation of several major power plants
generation and unimpeded regional energy              either completed or under way, fnanced by
trade (electricity and gas)                          international donors; the main thermal power
plant privatized; the risk of disruptions in the
regional trade not mitigated
Maintaining cost-covering tariffs           S         Assistance to strengthen GNERC provided
through other IDA operations ard by bilateral
donors (USAID)
From Components to Outputs
System dispatch and meter reading           S         Included in the scope of management contracts;
procedures established and followed                   additional assistance provided by bilateral
donors outside the project (USAID)
Adequate maintenance and operation of       S         Included in the scope of management contracts
the transmission, dispatch and
communications systems
The Government to facilitate performance    H         Coordinated effort by all major international
of the management contracts; actively                 financing institutions to help fight corruption
pursue anti-corruption measures; and                  and improve management of the public sector;
honor its financial obligations to the                the risk, however, remains high
energy sector
Successful completion of management         11        Privatization of distribution and generation;
contracts                                             coordinated assistance of donors to address
major problems in the sector
- 33 -



Government and the sector enterprises to        H         Assistance by international financing institutions
carry out debt restructuring plan                         to improve management of the public sector and
public sector debt
Availability of local counterpart fimds for     H         Improved financial management of the project
the investment and technical services                     beneficiaries through management contracts;
components                                                establishment of escrow accounts for local
financing
Overall Risk Rating                             H         Overall project risk is high: privatization of
distribution areas outside Tbilisi may not
succeed and the ability of management
contractor to improve the performance of these
companies is not tested; the management
contracts may not succeed due to pressure from
vested interests; corruption will be hard to
eradicate and the effort will take time; domestic
and regional political tensions are still present
and are likely to persist
L                             ___________________________________ I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Georgian Constitution imposes some limits on foreign ownership and control of the power transmission
network. The management contracts for transmission and dispatch will involve foreign firms. High level of
political commitment to the management contracts, expressed through a Presidential Decree, indicates that
the Constitutional stipulation should not be prohibitive, but it cannot be excluded that some elements of the
contract may be challenged by vested interests on Constitutional grounds.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Sign management contracts (satisfactory to IDA) for Wholesale Electricity Market, Electrogadatsema,
and Electrodispatcherizatsia [D. 1]
2. Satisfactory progress in implementation of actions in Letter of Electricity Sector Policy [B.2]
3. Sign subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to IDA [C.4]
4. Electrodispatcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema to establish escrow account for local financing of the
project and make initial deposits [C.4]
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. The Borrower to maintain Management Contracts for Electrogadatsema, Electrodispatcherizatsia, and
the Wholesale Electricity Market, satisfactory to IDA, throughout the project implementation [D. I]
2. The Borrower, Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia to establish and maintain a Project
Service Organization (PSO) [C.4, E.4]
3. The Borrower, Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia to implement the action plan to
- 34 -



strengthen financial management system of the project [C.4, E.4]
4. Arrangement for opening and operating Special Accounts for IDA Credit [C.4]
5. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia to open project escrow accounts and maintain sufficient
deposits for local financing of the project [C.4]
6. PSO to implement project management reporting requirements (including quarterly and annual reports,
and project mid-term review by June 30, 2003) [C.4]
7. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia to prepare a plan for the future operation of the project
and discuss it with IDA [C.4]
8. Principal terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements to be maintained [C.4]
9. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia to submit audit reports to IDA no later than six months
after the close of fiscal year [C.4]
10. Electrogadatsema and Electrodispatcherizatsia to maintain debt coverage ratio at 1.5 and the ratio of
current asset vs. current liabilities at 1.1 [E.2]
Disbursement Conditions
11. Privatize all distribution companies to strategic investors for which there is interest in the market, and
place all non-privatized distribution companies and management contract with a credible international
manager, through a transparent, competitive process satisfactory to IDA, before any funds from the
IDA Credit are disbursed against the investment contracts financed by the Credit [B.3]
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 35 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
A..
Vladislav Vucetic                  Hossein R    i                               Con
Team Leader                        Sector Ma ger                      Country Manager
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Hierarchy.of____                                  _________'
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectodt country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce barriers to private  Privatize additional      Government's statistics    Continued implementation of
sector development and     generation and distribution                           the economic reform program
deepen and diversify sources  assets to strategic investors   Project Implementation
of growth through                                     Reports from the PSO       Govemment's social policies
rehabilitation of basic    Improved collections at the                           to deal with energy supply to
infrastructure and improved   wholesale level from 55% to                        vulnerable groups
environment for private    95%
investment in the sector
Project Development        Outcome i Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve reliability and    Reduce system-wide outages  Project Implementation  More efficient public
efficiency of electricity supply, from 20 hrs/yr to 15 hrs/yr    Reports from the PSO  governance; stronger law
and improve financial and    (expressed in equivalent total                      enforcement (including
corporate management in the  system blackout hours)                              bankruptcies and
wholesale electricity market.                                                    anti-corruption measures)
Reduce losses in the       Project Supervision Reports
subtransmission and        from IDA and co-financiers  Incentives for private
transmission network from                             investment; transparent,
15% to 12.5%.                                         cornpetitive privatization of
enterprises and public
Improved collections at the                           procurement
wholesale level from 55% to   Reports from Management
95%                        Contractors                Political stability in the
country and the region
Outages of the
Zestafoni-Ksani line to
decrease by 25% (from 10.5
hrs/yr to 7.9 hrs/yr average)
Outages of the
Zestafoni-Inguri line to
decrease by 10% (from 16
hrs/yr to 14.4 hrs/yr average)
Outages of the Zestafoni
500-kV substation to decrease
from 13.3 hrs/yr to 4 hrs/yr
average
- 37 -



- S,Qlia7f 77I77777A
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Improved system metering    Reduced commercial losses in Project Implementation  Reliable electricity supply
the system from 1.8% to 1%   Reports from the PSO     from domestic generation and
unimpeded regional energy
Number of meters installed in                        trade (electricity and gas)
the transmission network: 480
Improved power system      Reduce system-wide outages  Project Supervision Reports
dispatch and control       from 20 hrs/yr to 15 hrs/yr   from IDA and co-financiers
(expressed in equivalent total
system blackout hours)
Reduced Reduce losses in the
subtransmission and
transmission network from    Reports from Management
15% to 12.5%.             Contractors
A computerized control center
in Tbilisi processing 4700
controls, 5000 status
indications, 4900 alarms, and
450 measurements from 30
remote terminal units
2 telephone exchanges with
230 telephone sets
Fiber optics
telecommunication network
(580 km)
Improved efficiency and    Outages of the                                        Maintaining cost-covering
reliability of the Zestafoni    Zestafoni-Ksani line to                          tariffs
transmission substation    decrease by 25% (from 10.5
hrs/yr to 7.9 hrs/yr average)
Outages of the
Zestafoni-Inguri line to
decrease by 10% (from 16
hrs/yr to 14.4 hrs/yr average)
Outages of the Zestafoni
500-kV substation to decrease
from 13.3 hrs/yr to 4 hrs/yr
average
- 38 -



Improved financial         Debt service cover ratio of EG                         Improved perfornance of
performance of             and ED: 1.5                                            distribution and generation
Electrogadatsema (EG),                                                            cornpanies (improved
Electrodispatcherizatsia (ED), Current ratio of EG and ED:                        collections and reduced costs)
and the wholesale electricity   1.1
market
Local counterpart funds for
the project provided timely
Improved collections at the
wholesale level from 55% to
95%
Successful implementation of Procurement completed per
the project and improved   schedule (see Annex 6)
capability of the beneficiaries
to implement investment    Project completed by June 30,
projects                   2005
- 39 -



Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Rehabilitation and Upgrade of 2.32                   Project Implementation     Meter reading procedures
System Metering                                      Reports from the PSO       established and followed
Rehabilitation and Upgrade of 18.36                  Project Supervision Reports   System dispatch rules and
System Dispatch, Control and                         from IDA and co-financiers   procedures followed
Communications
Adequate maintenance and
operation of the dispatch and
communications systems
Rehabilitation of          11.40                     Audit Reports              Adequate maintenance and
Transmission Network                                                            operation of the transmission
systems
Management Information     1.10                      Reports from Management   Improved performance of
Systems                                              Contractors                distribution and generation
companies (improved
collections and reduced costs)
The Government to facilitate
performance of the
management contracts,
including allowing
disconnection of non-paying
customers, prosecution of
electricity theft and financial
misuses; to pursue actively
anti-corruption measures; and
to honor its financial
obligations to the energy
sector
Government and the sector
enterpTises to carry out debt
restructuring plan
Management Contract for   5.18                                                 Availability of local
the Wholesale Electricity                                                      counterpart funds for the
Market                                                                         investment and technical
services components
Management Contract the
Transmission and Dispatch
Companies
- 40 -



Technical Assistance      3.95
* Procurement and Project
Management
* Environmental Action
Plan
* Debt Restructuring
* Audit
Incremental Operating Costs 0.64
- 41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Description of the system. The nameplate capacity of the Georgian power plants exceeded 4400 MW, of
which about 60% were hydropower and 40% thermal plants. However, the available capacity is much
lower, as most of thermal capacity is either out of operation or de-rated due to poor condition. Currently,
only two 300-MW units at the Tbilsresi (Gardabani) thermal plant are available and economic. Similarly,
the capacity of hydropower plants, which varies with water availability, is much lower than nominal due to
disrepair and aging. The total capacity varies between 1200 MW and 1800 MW.
The transmission system includes 572 km of 500-kV lines, 21 km of 330-kV lines, 1173 km of 220-kV
lines, 2991 km of 1 10-kV lines, and 2661 km of 35-kV lines. There are 4 500/220-kV substations, 16
220/1 10-kV substations, 141 110/35-kV substations, and 227 35/10-kV substations. Interconnections with
neighboring countries include two lines to Russia (one 500-kV and the other 220-kV through Abkhazia,
which is not operational as an interconnection at this time), two lines to Azerbaijan (one 500-kV and the
other 330-kV; the 500-kV line is not operational), one 220-kV line to Armenia, and one 220-kV line to
Turkey. The 500-kV line stretches from Russia to the Inguri hydropower plant, then to the Gardabani
thermal plant via the Zestafoni and Ksani substations, with a branch from Ksani to Azerbaijan. This line is
the backbone of the transmission network, and its outage often causes a collapse of the system, as the
transfer capacity of the 220-kV network does not provide sufficient reserve. The distribution network
includes the 10- and 0.4-kV lines, and some 35- and 1 10-kV lines around Tbilisi.
The system dispatch is organized into a three-level hierarchical system. National Dispatch Center (NDC) in
Tbilisi is at the top of the hierarchy with the authority to supervise and control dispatch of power plants
above 10 MW, tie lines with neighboring countries, and the transmission network above 11 0-kV (including
some 1 10-kV lines). At the second level are 12 Area Control Centers (ACCs) whose responsibilities include
the portion of 110-kv network which is not supervised by the NDC, the 35-KV network and power plants
below 10 MW. The Kutaisi ACC has some enhanced responsibilities for the westem part of the system. At
the third level are distribution control centers (DCC), responsible for local distribution network of 10-kV
and lower voltage. In the FSU, there was a regional dispatch center Pontoel in Tbilisi. It still exist as an
organization, with Russia, Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan as the founders, nominally in charge of
coordinating joint operation of the regional power systems. Since the systems, however, operate largely in
isolation, Pontoel is de facto defunct.
There is little automation in the control systems, except some in the NDC, which was established in 1974
(before that the Georgian power system was controlled from elsewhere as part of the FSU-wide system),
and was expanded in parallel with the expansion of the transmission network. The existing control and
communications system was completed in the late eighties. It is based on the old Soviet technology. It is
practically impossible to maintain and expand the system due to a number of reasons: functional and
technical limitations, lack of spare parts, and technological obsolescence and incompatibility with modem
equipment. The SCADA system included 34 facilities - power plants and substations - from which
information was collected in real time. The system as designed is obsolete: not all information is acquired
(e.g., equipment alarms, transformer tap-changer positions, energy counter values), transmission speed is
low, there is no capability for remote control. Furthermore, a number of the 34 remote terminal units
(RTUs) are not operational and dispatchers rely on telephones - which are also not very reliable -- to
update themselves on the status of equipment. The telecommunications system is based on power line
carriers (PLCs), radio links, some communication cables, and leased telephone lines. About 50% of the
PLCs and about 60% of the radio network is out of operation. Metering of electricity is done by
- 42 -



electromechanical meters, with no remote reading capabilities, nor the capability to support time-of-day
tariffs required for a pool-based trading arrangements.
System demand had decreased substantially during the last decade, from about 17 TWh in late 1980s (at
the generation level) to about 7-8 TWh during the last 5 years, mainly due to decrease in ndustrial demand,
which fell from about 8 TWh to about 1 TWh during the same period. The demand could be met from
domestic plants if sufficient fuel is procured for the Gardabani (Tbilsresi) plant, and if both thermal and
hydropower plants are maintained and operated properly. There could be some seasonal imbalances due to
seasonal character of water inflows, which could be mitigated by exchanges with neighboring systems. It is
expected that demand will remain flat or slightly higher during the next several years.
Structurally, the Georgia power system is organized into distribution, generation, transmission, and
dispatch segments. The distribution and generation segments are operated by a number of companies,
whose structure is changing with privatization. At this time, about 50% of distribution (measured by share
in demand) is privatized, almost entirely to strategic investors, with another 10% under negotiations. The
remaining distribution assets are being consolidated into few companies, and continue to look for private
investors. The generation assets are undergoing privatization. It is expected that most plants outside
Abkhazia, with few exceptions, will be sold or leased through 25-year concession to strategic investors by
mid-2000. The transmission and dispatch assets and functions belong to Electrogadatsema and
Electrodispatcherizatsia, respectively, which are publicly owned.
Ministry of Fuel and Energy is Government's agency in charge of sector policies, whereats the Ministry of
State Property exercises the ownership functions over the public companies and Government's shares in the
privatized ones. An independent energy regulatory agency (GNERC) regulates the sector. The bulk of
trading goes through the Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM), which acts as a central purchasing agency,
settles the transactions and administers the funds. Some trading is also organized through bilateral
contracts, which are regulated. Electrodispatcherizatsia dispatches the system according to the availability
of power plants and schedule of export/import contracts. All prices are regulated by GNERC, and therefore
there is no electricity market in the customary sense of the word. This is a transitional arnangement,
designed to last until the bulk of distribution and generation assets are privatized and financial discipline
established. Once this is achieved, it is expected that a more competitive arrangement in generation and
imports will be possible and that the market could be liberalized.
Project concept. Unimpeded, reliable, and efficient transmission of electricity from power plants to the
consumers is essential. This requires both the existence of adequate transmission lines and substations, and
means to continuously plan, monitor, and control the complex system operation. It also requires metering of
electricity flows with sufficient frequency and accuracy to settle numerous commercial transactions among
trading parties. Given the nature of the physical processes involved, the system operation has to be
centrally monitored and controlled in real time. This needs continuous collecting of infonnation from
geographically dispersed facilities (power plants, substations and lines) and transmission of this
information to the central dispatch center, and vice versa -- communication of dispatch control actions
(either automated or executed by personnel manning the facilities) to locations where the actions are to be
taken. Therefore, a modem power network includes an elaborate system of data acquisition and metering
devices, data transmission and communication lines, computers and software, physically and functionally
integrated to ensure continuous reliable operation of the system.
The transmission network in Georgia, with its associated metering, dispatch and communications facilities,
suffers from years of neglect, maintenance backlogs, and lack of investment in upgrades and new
equipment. No transmission lines and substations were constructed after 1990. Only 7 out of 25 220-,
- 43 -



330-, and 500-kV substations have been in operation for less than 20 years, and 8 of them exceeded 30
years. The existing dispatch system, with it SCADA equipment, was installed in the 1980s. However, it is
based on old Soviet technology, which is practically impossible to maintain and expand due to a number of
reasons -- functional and technical limitations, lack of spare parts, technological obsolescence and
incompatibility with modem equipment. The SCADA included 34 facilities -- power plants and substations
-- from which information was collected. The system as designed is deficient: not all information is
acquired (e.g., equipment alarms, transformer tap-changer positions, energy counter values), transmission
speed is low, there is no capability for remote control. Furthermore, a number of the 34 remote terminal
units (RTUs) are not operational and dispatchers rely on telephones -- also not very reliable -- to update
themselves on the status of the system. The telecommunications network is based on power line carriers
(PLCs), radio links, some communication cables, and leased telephone lines. About 50% of the PLCs and
about 60% of the radio network is out of operation. Metering of electricity is done by electromechanical
meters, with no remote reading capabilities, nor the capability to support time-of-day tariffs required for a
pool-based trading arrangements. Furthermore, the metering has been designed for a vertically integrated
system operated by a single company and is ill-suited for settling transactions in a restructured system with
many market participants.
The proposed project aims at repairing, rehabilitating, and upgrading the metering, control and
communications infrastructure, and selected transmission facilities, which would enable a secure, reliable,
and efficient operation of the power system and its integration with the neighboring systems. The proposed
technical solutions for the metering, control and communications are based on standard concepts and
proven technologies, accepted and applied worldwide. The system should satisfy current and immediate
future requirements and is open to functional and physical expansion to meet the needs further in the future.
Transmission substations are selected for rehabilitation on the basis of their importance for system
operation and the level of disrepair. The new equipment to be installed will also be based on standard
technologies.
Project components. The project includes the following components:
* Rehabilitation and upgrade of metering of electricity flows in the transmission network;
* Rehabilitation and upgrade of system control;
* Rehabilitation and upgrade of telecommunications;
* Management information systems;
* Rehabilitation of the Zestafoni transmission substation;
* Management Contracts for the Wholesale Electricity Market and the transmission and dispatch
companies; and
* Consulting services.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.32 million
Rehabilitation and upgrade of metering. This component includes installation of about 200 energy meters
in the 35-500-kV transmission network, which would enable:
*   metering and recording of active and reactive electricity flows in both directions, in 15-minutes
intervals;
*   flexible tariff structure, sensitive to time of use;
* local storage of data and their remote reading, as well as local downloading.
- 44 -



The meters should cover: (i) output of every generator in all power plants, as well as self-consumption of
the plants; (ii) low voltage windings of all 500-kV and 220-kV substations, sufficient to meter deliveries to
distribution companies and direct consumers; (iii) interconnection points between distribution companies.
A metering Data Acquisition System (MDAS) will collect metered data and transmit them via
telecommunication network to the Metering Management System (MMS) in the WEM and to the National
Dispatch Center. The MMS consists is computer system which handles data transmission, storage and
reporting. The metering system should be able to support a variety of market arrangements, from bilateral
contracts to short-term spot markets based on competitive bidding.
Project Component 2 - US$8.87 million
Rehabilitation and upgrade of system control. This component includes installation of the necessary
hardware and software to enable real time acquisition of operational information from the main facilities
(power stations and transmission system substations), analysis and monitoring of the system status at the
National Dispatch Center, and control and dispatch of the power plants, load centers, and the transmission
system, to maintain a reliable, secure and economic operation of the system and facilitate the operation of
the wholesale electricity market. The main elements of the system include 30 Remote Tenninal Units
(RTU) (the facilities in Abkhazia are excluded) and the corresponding local data acquisition equipment at
the power plants and transmission substations, integrated into a Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system, and an Energy Management System (EMS) at the National Dispatch Center.
The total amount of information acquired by the SCADA will be about 4,700 supervisory controls, 5,000
status indicators, 4,900 alarms, and 450 measurements. Real time control software will include network
topology, state estimation, automatic generation control and voltage control. The EMS system will include
software for network supervision and operational planning.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.49 million
Rehabilitation and upgrade of telecommunications. This component includes installation of the necessary
conimunications equipment (fiber optics, power line carrier systems, and radio systems) which would serve
the communication needs of the metering, dispatch and control systems. The main communication network
will consist of some 570 km of fiber optics self-supported cables (spanned mainly along the 220-kV lines
between the Inguri and Gardabani 500-kV substations, and about 20 kmn of underground fiber optics
cables. A back up communication network will include power line carriers (PLC) and sorne radio links in
the Kutaisi region. A private telephone network will also be installed, consisting of two PABX telephone
exchanges (at the NDC in Tbilisi and Zestafoni) and some 230 telephone sets at 45 locations.
Project Component 4 - US$11.40 million
Rehabilitation of selected transmission substations. The weakest structural feature of the Georgia
transmission network is outage of the 500-kV lines Zestafoni-Inguri and Zestafoni-Ksani, which could lead
to disintegration of the system under some load conditions. Rehabilitation of the Zestafoni substation has
the highest priority and is included in the project. Although the other three 500-kV substations -- Inguri,
Ksani, and Gardabani -- should be rehabilitated, they could not be included for the lack of funds. The
component includes implementation of envirornmental management plan.
Project Component 5 - US$1.10 million
-45 -



Management information systems. This component includes supply and installation of computerized
management information systems at Electrogadatsema, Electrodispatcherizatsia and the Wholesale
electricity market (through leasing arrangements with Electrodispatcherizatsia).
Project Component 6 - US$17.39 million
Management contracts. In order to bring the necessary market and management expertise and improve the
commercial and technical performance of the system, the Government intends to sign two 5-year
management contracts (MC) with international firms to manage (1) the Wholesale Electricity Market
(WEMMC), and (2) the dispatch and transmission companies (T&DMC). The MCs will be awarded
through international competitive bidding, and will have a retainer and a performance based fee. A portion
of the retainer fees will be financed from donors funds. The management contractors will have the authority
and responsibility to effectively manage the companies and the WEM, including implementation of internal
organizational restructuring; reassignment of staff, hiring and layoffs; business planning; entering into
contracts with third parties; financial management; etc. The responsibilities will also include
implementation of the project.
Project Component 7 - US$4.59 million
Consulting services and incremental operating costs. This component includes services of external
consultants for engineering design, procurement and project implementation, as well as services of the
Project hnplementation Unit which will have to be created by the project beneficiaries specifically for
implementation of this project.
- 46 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Project Cost by Component                      Local          Foreign       Total
(US$ million)   (US$ million)  (US$
million)
SCADA                                          0.41           7.32          7.73
Telecommunications                             1.02           7.26          8.28
Metering                                       0.16           1.80          1.96
Transmission                                   0.99           9.20          10.19
Management Information Systems                 0.00           1.10          1.10
Management Contracts -- Transmission and Dispatch   2.44      9.77          12.21
Management Contracts -- WEM                    1.04           4.14          5.18
Consulting Services for Project Implementation  0.70          3.25          3.95
Operating Costs                                0.64           0.00          0.64
Total Baseline Cost                            7.40           43.84         51.24
Physical Contingencies                       0.15            1.36         1.52
Prc Contingencie                             0.53           1.87          2.40
Total Project Costs                            8.09           47.08         55.16
Interest during construction                                .1.41         1.41
Total financing required                       8.09           48.49        156.57
Note: Interest During Construction item includes: interest during construction of USD 1.04 million and
commitment fees of USD 0.37 million
-47 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Quantifiable benefits of the project include: (i) increased reliability of the transmission system and
reductions in failures and forced outages as a result of equipment upgrades and better system control; (ii)
reduced transmission losses; (iii) avoided operations and maintenance costs for the telecommunications
system; (iv) increased output from hydroelectric plants, with consequent reductions in load shedding
and/or savings in high cost thermal generation; and (v) reduced system maintenance costs and avoided
future capital replacement through rehabilitation of the existing networks.
Economic Analysis
($US millions, NPV at 12%)
Present Value of Flows
Benefits:                                      60.3
Asset Life Extension                            5.8
Transmission Loss Reduction                    32.3
O&M Savings Telecoms                            0.4
Incremental Generation                         11.4
Reduction in Forced Outages                    10.5
Costs
Investments                                    32.5
Net Cash Flow @ 12%                            27.8
EIRR                                          23.4%
Note: EG and ED will receive a regulated tariff based on their net costs of operation, including
borrowings, costs and a return on capital. Hence the financial rates of return associated with the project
will be equivalent to the weighted cost of capital.
-48 -



Table 4.1 presents details on the economic cash flows of the costs and benefits.
Table 4.1
Electricity Market Support Project
Summary of Econoniic Costs and Benefits
USSWOO
2(K1)     20012      2003       20K)4      2005       2006        2007       2)08       2009       2010       2015      2020
Project Costs
Substation Refubishment                            -        2,912     4,853       1,941       -
Dispatch Systems                                            1,220     3,253      2,847        813
Telecommurications                                 -        1,229      3.278     2,868        820
Metenng                                            -         873       1,600       436        -
Technical Assistance - Implementation            2,029      1,571       481        288         81
Technical Assistance -Management                 2,630      3,857      1,682     3,682      3,682
Total ProjectCost                                  4,650     11,662     17,148     12,062     5,395        -           -                     -          -
Project Benefits
AssetLifeExtension                                 -          20       1,029      1.339     1,301      1,485       1,437      1,2;88     1,563      1,504         49        49
Transmission Loss Reduction 1)                     -          -        1,299     4,296      5,502      5,665       5,796      5.,929     6,065      6,290      7,543      9,045
O&M- Telecomnnurications                                      -         -           49         54         59          64         69         74         79         99        99
Incremental Generation 1)                          -         213        748       1.534     2,086      2,333       2,333      2,733      2,333      2,333      2,333      2,333
Reduction in Forced Outages 1)                               5-           7       1,635     1,747      1,813       1,874      1,937      2,004      2,073      2.471      2,970
Total Benefits                                                1,034     3133       x,854     10,690     11,356      11,504     ll,6i57    12,039     12,280     12,494     14,496
Net Cash Flow                                     (4,658)   118,629)   14.014)    (1,20191    5.295     11,356      11,504     11,657     12,039     12,280     12,494     14,496
EIRR                                               23.4%J
NPV @ 12%                                        $27,840
I) Loss reduction valued at Tariff
Main Assumptions:
Investment Cost Stream:
The flow of capital investments was taken from the base cost estimate for the project, excluding taxes,
duties and contingencies. Timing of investments was based on the implementation schedule.
Benefits Stream:
Asset Life Extension: In the absence of the project, EG will have to undertake major substation and line
repairs/replacement on an ad hoc or emergency basis. These expenditures were assumed to be spread over
an 11 year period (2001 - 201 1), with a heavier weighting towards the end of the period., and were assumed
to be of the same magnitude as project expenditures plus a 20 percent premium due to the inability to
schedule the work in an organized manner. In addition, EG was assumed to incur incremental maintenance
expenditures equivalent to 5% of the capital cost of unrehabilitated assets.
Transmission Loss Reduction: At present, losses in the transmission network total approximately 15
percent of the power received from the generators. Of this, it is estimated the 13.3 percent of the losses are
technical, and the remainder are non-technical. Introduction of better system control through investments in
SCADA are expected to result in a reduction of approximately 6 percent in technical losses. Improved
metering is expected to lead to a 50 percent reduction in non-technical losses. Customer willingness to pay
- 49 -



for the incremental power delivered was valued at the existing retail tariff, adjusted for losses in the
distribution network.
O&M Savings - Telecoms: The transmission and dispatch companies currently supplement their
telecommunications service using leased lines - at a cost of approximately $39,000 per year. In the future,
this cost is expected to increase as leased lines represent an increased share of total telecoms services.
Investments under the project will eliminate the need for leased lines, allowing the companies to avoid the
associated costs.
Incremental Generation: Introduction of better system control and information will allow the operators to
improve the utilization of, and increase value of output from the hydro plants in the system. In the near
term, this will pennit a reduction in load shedding. In the longer term, it will allow replacement of
high-cost thernal generation with hydro. The technical specialists have estimated that generation
optimization would allow an increase in hydroelectric output equivalent to approximately 1 percent of total
generation - or 77 GWh per year. Valued at the tariff (adjusted for transmission and distribution losses),
this would amount to a benefit of approximately US$2.5 million per year. In the future, the incremental
hydro would replace thermal generation. Based on the differential in wholesale tariffs between hydro and
thermal, this benefit would amount to approximately US$2.6 million per year. For the current analysis, the
annual benefit has been assumed to be a constant US$2.5 million.
Improved System Reliability: The rehabilitation of key lines and substations, as well as improved system
information and control, will lead to a reduction in the current level of forced outages. Associated savings
will include reduced loss of load, and reduced collateral damages associated with failures. Table 4.2
presents the detailed assumptions used in the analysis for individual lines and substations.
- 50 -



i1:ctrl        ble 4.2       -
.    Ele'ctricity Market Support Projecti
Reduction In Forced Outages
Substation                            Outages  Energy                 SS                Collate   Total
Rehabilitation       Length   Load    per yr   Lost   Recovered  Effect   Benefit I)  Damage Benefits
i________________   (km)   (MW)    (hrs)   (GWh)  (%) i(GWh) (GWh) (GWh) (S m) (S m) /  (S m)
Zesatfoni 500-kV
.Zestafoni-Ksani      165    700        10.5   7.34  25%   1.84   9.31  11.15   0.43    0.26    0.70
!Zestafoni-Inguri     128    700        16.1  11.24   10%   1.12          1.12   0.04            0.04
SS reliability       13.3 hrs/yr
Zestafoni 220/1 10-kV
Reliability                   200     175.2  35.04   50%  17 52          17.52  0.68            0.68
I Decreased Losses                                                        0.50  0.02             0.02
Reliability           2%
TOTAL                                                                       30.29  S is  $ 0.26  $ 1.44
Network Managemen              Load   Avoided Outages   Benefit I)
_______________________    (MW)      (hrs)  Freque   :(GWh)  ($  m,
System-Wide
Avoided Outages               800      1.50   3.25   3.90  0.15
MitigatedOutages .            800      0.75   3.25   1.95  0.08
Partial System
Avoided Outages                80      0.25   5.72  0.11  0.00
Mitigated Outages              80      0.13   22.8  0.23  0.01
TOTAL                                                    6.19  0.24
1) Valued at tariff
Notes:                                                       j
Annual increase in outage rates without project
Zestafoni-Ksani             2.0%/           Escalation of outage rates without rehab. of the Zestafoni SS
Zestafoni-Inguri             2.0 h          Escalation of outage rates without rehab. of the Zestafoni SS
Zestafoni 500-kV SS         5.0%           f Escalation of outage rates without rehab. of the Zestafoni SS
!Zestafoni 220-kV SS         3.0%/.         Escalation of outage rates without rehab. of the Zestafoni SS
Escalation rate for Colateral dama   3.0%  
- 51 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Under base-case assumptions of costs and benefits, the EIRR of the project is 23.4 percent, as compared
with the assumed opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. The switching values of the major
assumptions (i.e. the deviation from the base case which would yield an EIRR of 12%) are summarized
below:
Assumption                              Switching Value
Total Investment Costs                                      +85%
Total Benefits                                              -46%
Value of Unserved Energy                         1.8 cents/kWh (vs tariffof 4.3 cents)
Benefits of:
Reduced Transmission Losses                                -86%
Incremental Generation                                   Negative
Reduction in Forced Outages                               Negative
The above table demonstrates that the project is economically viable under a broad range of assumptions
with respect to costs and benefits, and further that no one benefit is critical to achieving a threshold EIRR.
- 52 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
(a) Main Assumptions:
General:
1998   1999    2000   2001   2002    2003    2004    2005   2006   2007
Foreign Inflation       2.2%    -2.3   3.6%   3.7%    2.26%   2.4%    2.1%   2.2%   2.2%
Local Inflation         18.9%   4.3%   7.6%   4.0%    4.0%    4.0%    4.0%   4.0%   4.0%
Lari/US$ - ave.    1.95   2.02    1.97   2.00   2.02    2.06    2.087   2.08   2.12   2.15
Loans:
Electrodispatcherizatsia: ED is assumed to have no existing outstanding loans. A portion of the IDA
credit (approximately US$14.5 million equivalent) would be on-lent to ED for a 20 year period,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate equal to IBRD currency-pool rates (assumed to be 6.5
percent on average). Commitment fees were assumed to be zero, although under the proposed
on-lending arrangements, ED would be obligated to compensate the Government in the event that
commitment fees were imposed on IDA lending.
Electrogadatsema: The transnission company currently has two loans outstanding frorn KFW, and a
third KFW loan which will be disbursed over the 1999 - 2001 period. A part of the IDA credit
(approximately US$12.8 million equivalent) would be onlent to EG under the same conditions as for
ED. The KfW fimds provided for the project (approximately US$11.4 million equivalent) would be
on-lent to EG for a 20 year period, including 4 years grace, at an interest rate of 4 percent. The table
below summarizes the loan obligations of the transmission company, including those to be incurred
under the proposed project
Loan               Amount       Amount   Start          Years  Interest
('000)      ($US)    Repayment              (%)
KFW Energetica 2    5,700 DM    $2,591    2008          28      0.75
KFW Energetica 3    10,000      $4,545    2008          28      0.75
DM
KFW Energetica 4    14,500      $6,591    2007          30      0.75
DM
KFW - EMSP         25,000       $11,364   2005          16      4.0
DM
IDA - EMSP         $11,817      $12,825   2006          15      6.5
-53 -



Income Statement:
Gross Revenues: Total electricity generation is assumed to grow at an average rate of 2.8 percent over
the coming 10 years. Electricity delivered to consumers will grow at a slightly higher rate due to
reductions in losses as a result of the project. Tariffs for EG and ED are assumed to remain constant in
real terms at their current levels of 1.19 and 0.28 tetri/kWh respectively (including VAT).
Non-Payments: It is assumed that the companies will not receive any payment for electricity delivered
to Abkhazia. With the development of the wholesale market and private participation in the
distribution, dispatch and transmission companies, however, collections from distribution companies are
projected to improve over the period, from their current rate of 51 percent to 95 percent by 2006.
Operating Expenses: Maintenance and repair expenditures for both EG and ED are assumed to
increase by 2 percent per annum in real terms. Administrative and staffing levels are assumed to remain
constant, but wage rates are assumed to increase by 2 percent per annum in real terms.
Depreciation expenses are based on a percentage of gross revalued assets by asset classification.
Classifications and rates are: Equipment - 5%, Buildings - 2.5%, Lines and substations - 2.5%,
Transformers - 3.3%, and Other assets - 10%.
Other: Interest during construction is paid on amounts disbursed under the loans. Non-operating
revenues and expenses are assumed to increase with inflation. Corporate income tax is charged at a rate
of 20 percent.
Balance Slheet:
Fixed Assets: Fixed assets are revalued on an annual basis, and depreciated at the rates shown above.
In order to preserve the asset base, EG is also assumed to reinvest an amount equivalent to 50 percent
of depreciation in capitalized maintenance and asset replacement. ED is assumed to reinvest 25 percent
of depreciation through to 2001, 50 percent from 2002 to 2005, and 100 percent thereafter. Since these
amounts are incremental to investments made under existing and proposed loans from international
lenders, they should be adequate to preserve the asset base of the companies.
In negotiations on the privatization of selected generation and distribution assets, the government is
discussing the possible inclusion of part or all of EG's 35 kV network (including some dedicated 110
kV lines) in the assets transferred to the new owners. The total gross value of EG's 35 kV network is
approximately 306 million GEL, and accumulated depreciation is approximately 196 million. A
sensitivity analysis, however, indicated that the loss of these assets would not have a material effect on
the conclusions regarding the financial viability of EG at current tariffs.
Current Assets: Cash balances are maintained at 25 percent of annual cash operating expenditures.
Surplus cash is used to finance the local share of capital investments, with any residual cash being
invested in short term instruments. Accounts receivable for EG and ED are assumed to decline to 60
days sales equivalent by 2003. Inventories for both companies are assumed to be 1 percent of the gross
value of fixed assets. In order to present a more realistic picture of working capital, accounts receivable
of EG which had been frozen as part of sector privatization, were assumed to be transferred to the
debt-holding company, Sakenergo 2000. An equal amount of "other current liabilities" were assumed to
be transferred also.
- 54 -



Current Liabilities: Trade accounts payable are assumed to decline to 20 percent of total cash
operating expenses by 2003.
(b) Pro-Forma Financial Statements
Pro-forma financial statements (income statement, balance sheet and cash flow) for Electrogadatsema
are given in Tables 5.1 - 5.3. Statements for Electrodispatcherizatsia are given in Tables 5.4 - 5.6.
Note that 1998 and 1999 data for Electrodispatcherizatsia include the assets and operations of
Sakenergo. The split in financial activities was assumed to be effective January 1, 2000.
Table 5.7 below provides financial highlights of a consolidated transmission and dispat:h company. To
facilitate comparison, highlights of the performance of separate transmission and dispatch companies
are also given. The analysis has assumed that the consolidated company would receive a tariff
equivalent to the current combined tariff of the two companies. No improvements in operating
efficiency are presumed in this analysis, even though the combined operations undoubtedly involve a
substantial degree of redundancy in both administrative and managerial staffing and in the operation and
maintenance of facilities.
- 55 -



Acsncv S
PN-t lin Fl'anoal Statsbosos,                                                                                                                                           Table 5.1
Elotogpd um. - 'OBO GEL
INCOME STATEMENT
t'O0) GEL)                          1998        1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       2004        2005        2006        2007       2000        2009        2011
Trn7mi- ilssoxilioxkW4h)            7,117      7,395      7,062       8,069      82S2       8536        8,042      9,047       9,229      9,413       9,602       9,795      10,113
T.oiff()esikWh)                      0.89        1.10      0.99        1.07       1.11       1.15        1.20       125         130         135         1.40       1A6         1.52
GessR-v ns                         63,375     81,341     77,968      06,096     91,902     93511      IK,127     112,934     119,S06     127,090     134,825    143,059     1515,8
Less Un.oofltod Assosno          26,384     43,475      34,431     35,678     34,066     50,274      24,773      17,094     14368       15,067      15,003     16,576      17,480
xf ,xhih                         .                     ,                                _ -                                _             
Abkh.i-                                     8,3S1      7,556      8,130      8,455      8,793       9,145       9,511      9.,91      10,2S7      10.698      11,126      11,571
D,xxibuts7n                       -        35,094     26075      27,548     26,411     21,481      15,629        ,3W       4,477       4,781       5,104      5,450       5,909
NotOpem6ngR -xxxoos                36,991     37,866     43,537      50,410     57,035     60,237      81,354    9f,041      100,438     112,023    119,023     126,463     136,108
CossofOolos  .         .          .          -          -          .          ~    ~~.     -          .           .           -             
Cat of SW.                            ,                                            .                              
WogosSoeiwl Taxes                 7,719      8,719       9,763     10,716     11,367     12,0S       12,791      13,5t9     14,394      15,269      16,197     17,182       0,227
Ropa-r  d Mlicloncc               4,03       5360        6,198      6,802      7,216      7,654       8,120      S,613       9,137       9,692      10,282      10,907     11,570
AdxistrAtve Expenses                001        099        993       1,069      1,112      1,156       1,202       1250       1,300        352        1,407       1,463      1,521
DspseiGoox                       39,146     39.146      43,613     47,760     50,673     53,920      57,08     60,163      63,405      66,819     70,421      74,217      78,219
Tot) Cone ofWSlo-                  52,469     54.124     609567      66,346     70,367     74,38      79,202     83,595      00,235      93,133     90,30      103,769     109,530
Not Psfit (s opon6e.s             (15,478)   (16,258)   (17,030)    (15,928)   (13,332)    (6,552)     2,152      11,445      17,204      IS,S90     20,716      22,694      268571
Noe-C~xOpx-  Roeesosos               .          .          .          .          -6.                    . .                    .           .           -           . 
No-Opt.g Expese                     1,891      2,459      2,565      2.760       2.870      2,9S5       3,104      3,220       3,358      3,492       3,632       3,777       3,928
Ma-xg-msesContmel                     -    -                -        3,026       4,432      3,904      4,227       4,316         -                      .           -           -
)eenstand S-kChes.%                             431         38        332       1,042      2,159       2,696      2,782       2,771       2,639      2,49S       2,351       2,198
No P.et Bof-rel'                  (17,369)    (19,148)   (19,632)    (19,020)   (17,245)    (11,695)   (3,648)     5,434      11,075      12,759     14,587      16,567      20,445
Profls ra                           -          -          -          -          -          -           -         1,007      2,215       2,552       2,917       3,313      4,009
0d,orTTx..                          227        270        282        303         315        328         341        354         369        383         399         415         431
N. Prfit AOoxTo                   (17,96)    (19,418)   (19,914)    (19,323)   (17,560)   (12,023)     (3,969)     3,993       8,491       9,024      11,271     12839       15,925
- 56 -



Pvf_ l.3w Sa.                                                                                                                                                                                                      An5 
Ek.          u.-WGEUCEL                                                                                                                                                                                          To6.52
(50G35)                                          3943           1979            2M3            29D1           2002            2349           2004 na3                      2L306           2007           2608            2009           2010
PIW6          a.499p                       1.454.0J67     (335,68         I65.746        1.70.293       '.009.066      233i)6494       2,17469        2.242300       2.362.167       2.1'55         2.6212.         2.761361       2.06.924
A         _ low    4                   (1.09.96)       (1.,13.72)     (.27.376        (1.423.205)    (1.536.69)     (166.35)    ((.6.3t64)   M)3. J.86)    (2,39.234)            (2.1(7.675)    (2345,6m3)      (2513.644)     (2.92.49)
Capla) 4048663 484g300h                      36,411          66.737         66.737         66%737          00.737         6,737          60.737          66.737         60.737         643.737          6.7737        60737            7737
A3,.Pk. A Ed 9              J64.8572       4(1.95         4((27           4(7.775        40t923          425.30         4264 3         4017.24)        .33.6-7        361,417         3354,33        334,755        27772
O4n4.L 1rsT4nA                                     .                             .               .              .               .                             -                  
F.        l n 4.-4                              347             147            34             (47             147            (4             147             147            147            147             147            14              147
N?a-   .63                                    4,376            341             )41            341           3141             34             341            341             341            341                            3431            141
733.a(&4            4.523            406            4.              4              44D 4e3                                                      41              464            463            4a             4O9
C.                                               46              9           1.255           (.6            1.943          223(6           2547           2.D37          3,227           3363           3.,ss           4,407          4.849
ShTnl bw-                                                     3.627         35236          78236           t63422        119393          153479         192.30         228.916         26.695         316,243         355,U43        463,122
Aco     Ri b4..6 Tn.                         25.297          67.472         1(361           213229        I3.04            (613           17,446         I.%,5          19.694          20.992         22.163          273,513        25.247
G.A  E.h66        Ah tO R-*49i.               6326            1557           4.272          4.62            3277           3239            3.49           3.713          3.939           4.176          4,433           4263            7(D49
35l4                                  .                      93323          65354          48.794          32.929         16,344             -                                     .                      .
b                                            I3626           43.752         1(2.77          173363         1 I61          26.136         21(37           22,424         23.622          24.J8          26.213          276314         293,3
olhoraA                                         532          I.,739         12212           13.141         1366           14.213          14.71          135.373        15.433          16.621         17,292          17,9u          14,703
3.04 C7W7l,3msh .         3945)         2747.326        J35.745         165.190        175,11)        191,646        218(4(J         235,259        _65.J36         (39M           384,334         434.053        489666
T.s3Au                                        439.s26         619,02        564336         583.351         594.522        617.9.36       639.300         6576.A9        679,493         763(600        721,255         743,006        7668041
LLA lur39E483r h                                                 .              -               .              .              .               ..
98          w                                      .              .              .               ..                                    .                      .               .              .-
hi33 39mb                                       .           4W.1352        49.32          49.152          493,152        494.352        44.152          463.152        46.152         494,1.2         494.152        494.33          4949.52
Rl a         n                              4)42.4(4         35.418         63522          76.923          93264        136531           120.119        134,%7         149.2037        1613122        173.153        3849M77         394,Ot6
Rt.0    5E6                                     .                              W.9        (38.2(9)        (3774l         (55.3333)       367.324)       (71.1l3)       (67.326)        (7.%624)       (46.605)        (377334)       (4.695
c       ipamdmrflt                             .             13695        (33.934)       (19,323)        (17366)        (I3623)          (3.939)         3.3            *,493          9,t24          1 )I'M          I2839          35.625
oSb     rns                                                                       .                   .                      .               .              ...
T7.7) Lq4         4)3246"         53.25          32435          5(2543          536.5                J        132J57 543.337   M5J(3.3        543,5.)       634,            (23762.         65.763         (734
I,ag.5.um  24.Mits        -               .              .               .              .              .               .                                     .              .
L.W,T04 Lih  e
D.us8env                                         54           6,76              3              54              54             54             546             54             34              54             54              34             54
Cl   L                                           .              -            574            16.675         3123           52a6           62.614          61393          57,666          53,733         3s.677          67,6W0         44.449
(%4848748R        6R w                          .               .                             (77)           (234)          (63)          (3.3323        (1.414)         (2,516)        33379)         (4593)          (5,556)        (6,446
Ta37swg.2h                           54-  J      1(7l           5J.12D          96712         J3.029         J5)7            6.JJ5           39.733        57416           59J7a           46922          47337          (9737
Ca L_d 
A.*i  99968Tn                                 6,675          12201           5.94            5576           4.24           4.974          4,423           43.97          4.9W            5,263          (377            5.93)          6.23
Ag335 - Od .                      .                                                            .                                                     .                                     - 
99g         943& caba.uPa                     2607            3301           1.453           1.667          3,337           1.26           3279           1357            1,4369         1.527           1620           (2(4           3.H23
Gt           Ei.64e8        P.Ot678           342             2.55           3095            3.131          2,792          2.404           2.6W5          2276            2.9-6          3,126           1317           3321           3,797
A     l                                                           6             00             66              66             66             96              66             (6.             66             66             66              7(3
Na9 B.6  T.      P ?o"                                          .              .                              .              .               .                                             .                              .
h_o6        i"i-63                            461               ,                              - -                           -
06.(arLmh4i3s                                2133            66226          22.715         23.365          24302          25.272         26283           21334         2(428            29MRs          33.747          313,4          33(2.%
s7sn T0 Bal.
8  0         a4 L4g700  04.9                     .                      .              .       .(77                                                                       3313           3.U5           I3.12           3,976          4.051
F.l6a)Cw   -W     ,            JI7(30        66,7(9          (1773          (.9. 76        J 3123J         3.(.142        34.675         375717          41.173         43.4,3          49269          457194          49277
5T33443 E  R2M   .d Equiy                     439,826         69.402         564336          583.351        594,522        637336          639.30         658.699        679.493         7)9132         721255          743,206        766.3)
- 57 -



N F...F      .. ..la    5i .t .....l.                                                                                                                               An0s 5
Ekafr.f.d.I.o. - 'Nt GCL                                                                                                                                            Tab). 5.3
C.. Fnt" sta._-t
(90G(L)                                           IW8        I99t"      2000       2002      2002       2          2004      2005       2006       2007       200S       2009        201(
Sio    of Fr,
0.fio0rToo..                                   (17.596)   (19,41S)   (19.914)   (19.323)   (17.560)   (12,023)    (3.009)    3,993     8.491      9,824      11,271     12.839     15,925
3qc..o-on                                        39.146     39,246     43,613     47,760    50.673     53.920     57.000    609163     63.403     66,.19     70,421     74.217     7.,219
1%w"4p Nd                                                      431        38        332       1,042     2,159      2,696     2,792      2,771      2,639      2,498      2.301       2,129
loe-wi.ve
Lowg.T=r. Lnw                                       .          ,        5,074     10.924    14.977     20.08O      9,727     1,131                                         -           -
(SdIf.Finoc-itgf2nwn0s0                                        ,       19,573    21.806     23.880     250337     26960    28,544     30,031      31,702     33.410     35,210     37.1N0
Tnnerac of Food A... (Am4)                                 (43.060)       -                          .               ,         -          ,          ,                     ,           -
CQoOO in Sh.,Ohden' Eqofy                           -      151.567                   -                    *          -         -                     -          -          -
TOolSOur.ofFl`                                   21,550    126,726     4.394     61.499     73,013    90,292      92,482    96,614    104,747    2(0.94     117.599    124,617    233,450
ApvOoa of Fonds                                     ,          .          .         .          .          .          .         .          .Fd
N- 2In ... r-                                       -          -        5..074     9.1S4     13.601    20.729     10.617
Olth.-Onv                                           .       21.023     19,573    21,100     23,880     25,337     26.969    2,544     30,081     31,702     33,410     35,210     37,109
0.0  Sorono
2'droip.2   ye R.y,o.9             -                           .Tm L-              1-4        -          .          -       1.477      3.313      3.045      3,912      3,991       4,051
1.i .  L-ongT  ?roo                                 .          .           38       332       1,042     2,159      2.096     2.702      2,772      2.639      2498       2.351       2,198
PF.tiipl Rfy-t    t                                                - th
Iotool. hrc                                         .
No Cb          i. Non-CooWo.id.%Copit.2          13,097    104.347    (32,0562   (14,941)   (16.939)   (17,633)   (14,547)    1,507    12543       1,637       1,739      I.f45      2.263
To.. Appli-.2i- of Fornd                         13.097    122.370    (6,370)    16,381     21,664     303591     25.725    34.311     37,708     39,22     412559     43,390      45,621
NolChp if nCh A,abl                                 -        1.356     54,754     45,118    51,349     59.602     66,757    62.303     67,039     71,162     76,040      1,227     87,830
ToCobA-t                                                     3.070      1.169       408        277        294        311      330        350         371        393        417        442
|Tokqoyoo.tof00n.1rnlobowioo                        .       (1,714)    21,287     21,806    23,.00     25,337     26.960    20.344     30,002     31,702     33,410     35,210      37.109
n.                                                            0     32299    22.9c    27.192    33.072    30,486   33.429           36.600     39.09      422327     45.00       50,300
- 58 -



Annex S
P,xFone Flh.eda SWauexl                                                                                                                                           T"3  5.4
EltodernkdfSnt" - '000 GFL
INCOME STATEMENli
(V1OOGEL)                                            1998      i999      2000       2001      2002      2003       2004      2005       2006      2007      2008       2009       2010
D.L"     (.niHi-nkWh)                                8218      8537      9,040     9,283      9534      9,792      0,058    10,262     10,470    10,63     10.901    11,124     11,492
T.i8r(tn0kWh)-ncIdi.ngVAT                             .         029       020        025       026       0.27       028       029        031       032        033       034        036
ClRo ,n                                            174,353    24,901     18.081    23,307    24,894    26,591    28,406    30141       31,983    33,939    36,017     38,224    41,065
L- U=rcO1ndA        Uns                           49,638    12,342     7,988      9,743     9,591      8,256     6,644     4,772      3,832     4,019      4,215     4,421      4,662
Abkdia                                             .        2,556     1,753     2,200     2,288      2,372     2,447      2,538     2,639     2,745      2,855      2969      3,087
D.lb.iton                                          -       9.786      6,235     7,543     7,303      5,885     4,196      2,234     1,193      1,274     1,360      1,452     1,575
Nd O itg Ronexex                                   124,715    12559    10,093      13,366    15,303     18,334    21,763    25,368    28,150    29,920      31,802    33,803    36,403
C of Salo
Wag. & So.Taxo                                     3,743     4,450      1,797     1,972     2,092      2,220     2,355     2,498      2,650     2,811      2,982      3,163     3,355
Rzpirai  MaidnMcn                                 11,512     8,649     7,985      8,764     9,297      9.730    10,308    10,921     11,569     12,255    12,982     13,751    14,567
Adai.im&. EVt                                     2,670     2,712      2,021     2,175     2,262      2,353     2,447      2,544     2,646     2,752      2,862      2,977     3,096
DI3  A3 5,258                                                6,313       255        372       664      1,281     1,873     2162       2,353     2,561      2,787      3,034     3,302
TolalCoonof0alcn                                    23,183    22,124     12,459    13,283    14,315    153583     16,982     18,126    19218    20,379      21.613    22,925    24,320
NdaPro il6oiiOpnat                                101,532    (9,566)    (1,966)     281        938     2,752      4,780     7,242      8,933     9,542     10,189     10,878    12,083
Nl  Op- mg,exiOxp-                                      6          7         7         8          8         9         9          9         t0        10         II        II         II
daonnCoan nct                                         -          -         -         680      1,057      1359      1,143      1,079      -                    -          .          -
lnttaoaBn    kChug.                                              -         -          109       437      1,174     1,785      1,966     2,001     1,900      1,796      1,687     1,573
No Pmfn80fon Ta                                    101,526    (9,373)    (1,974)      164       543      1,569     2,986     5,267      6,922     7,631      8,383     9,181     10,498
Tou
ProfitoTax                                       20,305        -         -          33        109       314       597      1.053      1,384     1,526      1,677     1,836      2,100
O4neTo                                               114       136       512        528       549       571        594       618        643       668       695        723        752
NJ mP6AI.Ta.                                        81,107    (9.708)    (2406)     (397)      (115)      6f4      1,795     3,595     4,995      5,436     6,011      6,621      7.646
- 59 -



PcFnr4t Fobl Stet.2                                                                                                                                                        A-5
E.W_p.S hr,UOs_. -OO GEL                                                                                                                                                   Tobk 5.5
BALANCE SHEET
(t00GEL3)                                       1998         5999         2000       2001       2992       2003        2004       2995        2006       2077        2008       29D9        2010
ASSEI
Fby d A t w
Fb%-k MW."Y    W d ipm                      121,252      145,483        5.105      7.781     14.158     27,227      39,728     46,171      50.180      54,541     59.283      64.442     705054
A-o.nt Dq.oobsio                          (780755)      (99,952)       (2S5)      (647)    (1,336)    (2,6701     (4,650)     (6,98)     (9,631)   (12,578)    (15,868)    (19,537)   (23,620)
CopiaWooko Pn7y                                1,644       1,644          -          -          -                      -
NMMPkW & qoipoonl         44,141       47,175       4.50      7,134     12,321      24,556     35,7N      3.9,173     40,549      41,963     43,415      40,905     40,433
Olc Lo.Tg TstM Ao
NotNobN-ityP.,py                                 15           115         -                                -
F5'r0oih51s by h                                862          862
O,k) V-9o.Co-,As-oo         26,074       26,074
To5.WOds                                       26,951       26,951
Cooh                                            349        4,302        3,350      3,577      3.762       3.925      4,126      4,345       4,565       4,803      5,D55       5,322      5,603
85oP,Tg0331-u7t1sh                              .         25,921         -           -          -                      -         11,        4,855      7,156      10,729      54,913     19,905
Ao      R-sho .oiabl -T ko                  356,374      308,186        4,954      5,428      4.774      4,371       4,670      4,955       5,257       7,570      5.921       6,283      6,750
Go,0v.nubiploy. &OdScrR. Rivobloo               689          689         991       1,086       955         874        934         991       1,051       1.116      1,184       1.257      1,350
0,Ploo& I-0It7rc,                             1,054         1.455        290         78         142        272        397         462        502         545         593        644         701
Peoid Ep_                                                                 .                                            -
OthoCot,050A.00h                             34,795       41575                      -           -         -                      -
To,7,IClr .-47A-       393,261     351 924        9.444    1/1O6#       9.632       Y,442     111127      12.1S7     15.387      19.150     23.432      28,419     34.395
TMl A-Sb                                      464,353      456,050      54295       17,302    22,454      33,998      45,205     55,30       55,936     61,113      66,897     7353,2      800,82
UABUllnES & EQ131TY
Slh.0,ld,04 b'4uily
I5,4 C.10i                                    9,106        9,106        5,095      5,079      3,995      5,055       S,095      5,095       5,095       5,095      5,095       5.035      5,095
Rmkoo.6,o R                                  43,243       51,275                    369        654        1,167      2,149      3,552       5,119       6,741      8,420      10,156    15,052
RosoonodEaooiogo                             20,802       20,802                 (2.486)    (2,8b31     (2,998)     (2,315)      (520)      3,076      7,971      13,407      19,418     26,548
Pioso.ooosp,0iodpofit                                    (9,708)     (2,456)      (397)       (115)       684       1,795      3,595       4,895      5,436       6,011       6,621      7,54
T3 .bodh   SE SHodisg,-                                                6,332       6,332      6,332      6,332       /,332      6,332       6,332      6,332       6,32        6,332       .332
S,,o Eqtiy,     73J151       71475        0942       N,9113      93)N83    11,267,     J3.057     i,1855 3   24,517      3115,7      39.265     47.03       57,966
[,o.T,   LtUbtbiit3
DomatisBwwi47                                 2,888        2#88                    1,827      2,727      2,782       1,718        -           -          -            (O)        (0)         (0
E,lL-8.                                                      -            -        1,680      6,722      18,057     27,458     30,250      26,670      25,760     23,376      21,625     59,S96
COoy Ro11Io6R.o.rv                                                                              (17)      (159)      (230)       (370)       (903)    (5,409)     (5,007)     (2,336)    (2.75
7.l,g.5,,,,LT-V.b51,          2,N83        2,880         ,         3,507      9,433     2,0069      20,938     29.60O      25,775     23,651      21,4J9      19,289     4Z750
C.mt Li4bfiitig
Aooo,Sho.yt- Tt.                            222,393      206,017        5,033      4,376      3,468      2,416       2,551      2,693       2,43       3.001      3,169       3,346      3,533
WM. a& Sobt0l oo-sy1 bl.                      L5,0         1,113         359        296        209         222        235         250        265         205         290        316         330
53o,0- 9,, E3tpb  o&O5hPhyblk                55379        20,274         (70)       210         261        391        424         452        483         516         550        35S         644
Ad 7                                            ,            .                                  .            .               .                .          .
N. 8BdsgotT.hPayalo                             ,                        .           .
bn7rC, P     5 L5.l55io 
OS, C54ot Lb.i6ah                           1553,127     153,127
SSoo,s1T,0B6tt,33ioo.9                          357          357
C05m85'P.6timofL.51T-70D t De,                                                                                                             2,052       2,080      2.52        2,163      2,201
55,6,) C.7,.t 061it671   38N,314       381.687       5.353      4,882      31730      3.529       .21:j)      1.395      5,643       5,886      6,142       6,412      6,712
5IT81 b55580. dEt4ity                        464,353      458050        14295      57,302     22,454     33,990      4,5205     5,30        55,936      61,113     66.807      73,324     bO#28
-60 -



Pr.-Fr.-  F.... l. St0t81..                                                                                                                                          A0-o  5
El.trd.p.kl.HrNi. G'00 GEL                                                                                                                                          Toblc 5.6
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(SOOGEL)                                               1998      1999       2000     2001     2002       2003      2004       2005       2006      2007       2001,     2009       2010
S0008 of Fond,
Pro0filafTOT.,0                                      81,107     (9,708)    (2,4S6)    (397)    (115)      684      1,795      3,595      4,895     5,436      6,011     6,621      7,646
Snp.ociW.on                                           5,258      6,313       255       372      664      1,281      1,873     2,162      2,353     2,561      2.787     3,034      3,302
nh.0t P8id                                                         -          -        109      437      1,174      1,785     1,966      2W001      1,900     1,7'96     1,687      1,573
L..ng.To   L-                                                                         1,680    5,025    11,202     9.313      2,660        -                               -         -
0Lh8                                                    -        1315                   64      156        332       640        936      2,162     2,353      7,561      2,787     3,034
chag. in Sh. thoMas' Eqft qy                                       -       (4,011 )                                   -         -          .         .
Totl l\ooooo,orF-n                                   86.365     (2.0J1Y    (6,241)    1,828    6,196    14,672     15,4006    1,320     11,411     12,251    13,155     14,129     15,556
Applilici. of F..d.
C piWI InyeOfnonl
Non 18v,nUnt Pjobcl                                     -          -                 2,224    5,879     12,171     10,772     3,918                   -         -          -
o0h8r                                                   -        1,315        -         64      186        332       640        936      2,162      2.353     2.561      2.787      3,034
D.10 So-ioo
P,b.ipI RqyoIt - Long-TrnnrIns -L-                                 -                                       -          -                  2.052     2,008      2,125      2,163      2.201
I,tm r 8 Lm    TwnLn.                                   ,                              109      437      1.174      1,785     1,966      2,001      1,900     1,796      1,687      1,573
fthi.ip] Repvyna   . O. -                                                               .h                           .-         -                               -          -
Ili rc- l M- -                                                                                                                                                  -          -
Ne Chpn i.No.CohWorkingCopiu                          4,598    (34,584)   30,777       918      223        556       302        221        200       222        238        255       354
TrAulApphal(on ofFundr                                4,598    (33,269)   30.777      3,314    6,725    14,232     135499     7,042      6.423      6,564     6,720      6,891      7,162
NOcChImgeinCahA-lkablb                                          31J188    (37,0191   (1,486)   (529)       440      1,907     4.278      4,98f      5,687     6,436      7,238      8,393
ToCh A-t                                                         3,953     (1,W02)     277      185        163       202        214       225        238        252       266        282
To RnWyrnooofSboSh-Tcmnfouwanoc                                  1,315        -      (1,7631    (7141      277      1,705     2,654      2,162      2353      2,561      2,787      3,034
To.SIhn-T.-I rlnv                                               25,921        -        -        -          -                  1,410      2,600     3,095      3,623      4,184      5,078
Tanfon 8 SEUO0i1P                                                         (36,017)
- 61 -



Annex 5
Table 5.7
Consolidated Dispatch and Transmission Operations
Highlghts of Fiaancial Performance
2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005     2006      2007
Tariff(tetri/kWb-excludingVAT)              1.19     1.32     1.37      1.43     1.48      1.54     1.60      1.67
Collections Rate                          55.8%    58.5%    62.00/o   69.3%    76.7%    84.2%    88.0%    88.1%
Net Profits                               (23.6)   (20.6)   (17.6)   (10.5)      (1.2)     7.6      13.3     15.1
Cash Flow                                  54.8     41.6     46.9      51.3     60.9      67.0     70.9      75.5
NetFixedAssets                            414.3    425.7    431.7    449.1    454.1    437.7    419.0    397.6
Long Term Debt                              6.5     17.4      32.5     54.0     64.0      62.4     54.3      48.9
Incremental Financing Requirements         (1.7)     -        -        (0.0)     0.0        (0)      (0)       (0)
Gross Capital Investment                   26.1     32.5      42.4     57.0     47.5      29.0     30.6      32.2
Debt Service Ratio                         2.39     3.28     4.08      5.47     7.04      8.47     9.53     10.12
Retumrn NRFA                              -5.7%    4.8%      -4.1%    -2.3%    -0.3%      1.7%     3.2%      3.8%
Note: Figures are in millions of GEL, unless otherwise noted.
Electrogadatsema
Highlights of Financial Performance (GEL millions)
2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007
Tariff(tetrijkWh - excluding VAT)        0.99      1.07      1.11      1.15     1.20      1.25      1.30      1.35
Collections fromn Distcos              55.8%     58.6%     62.1%     69.3%    76.7%     84.2%     88.0%     88.1%
NetProfits                             (19.9)    (19.3)    (17.6)    (12.0)     (4.0)     4.0        8.5       9.8
Cash Flow                               54.8      45.1      51.3      59.6      66.8     62.3      67.0      71.2
NetFixedAssets                         408.1    417.8    418.9    425.4    420.5    403.2    383.6    361.4
Long Term Debt                           5.1      16.1      31.2      52.6      62.6     61.1      57.0      53.7
Incremental Financing Requirements        (2)      -           0        0       -         -          (0)       (0)
Gross Capital Investment                24.6      31.0      37.6      46.1      37.6     28.5      30.1      31.7
DebtServiceRatio                        3.66      4.44      5.27      6.79      8.61     10.32     11.52    12.23
Return on NRFA                         -4.9%     4.6%      -4.2%     -2.8%     -0.9%      1.0%     2.2%      2.7%
Electrodespatcherizatsia
Highlights of Financial Performance (GEL Millions)
2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007
Tariff(tetri/Wh - excluding VAT)         0.20      0.25     0.26      0.27      0.28      0.29      0.31      0.32
Collections from Distcos               50.4%     55.8%     58.2%     61.5%     69.0%    76.6%     84.2%     88.0%
Net Profits                             (2.5)     (0.4)     (0.1)      0.7       1.8       3.6       4.9       5.4
Cash Flow                               (1.0)     (1.5)     (0.5)      0.4       1.9       4.3       5.0       5.7
Net Fixed Assets                         4.9       7.1      12.8      24.6      35.1      39.2      40.5     42.0
LongTerm Debt                            -         1.7       6.7      18.1      27.5     30.2      26.7      25.1
IncrementalFinancingRequirements         -         1.8       0.9       0.1      (1.1)     (1.7)     -         -
Gross Capital Investnent                 -         2.3       6.1      12.5      11.4       4.9      2.2       2.4
DebtServiceRatio                       (0.55)     0.02      0.24      0.77      1.35      1.91     2.28      2.48
RetumnonNRFA                            -51%      -6%       -1%        3%        5%        9%       12%       13%
(c)       Conclusions
The financial outlook for EG at the existing tariff is satisfactory from the perspective of cash flow and debt
- 62 -



service. Profitability and return on assets, however, remain negative until 2005. This is largely
attributable to relatively conservative assumptions regarding future improvements in collections. If
collections increase more rapidly, or if nonpayments are compensated in the tariff, profitability would be
restored more quickly. With this in mind, the Association has proposed, and the government has agreed
to appoint a qualified internationalfirm under a management contract to manage the operations of the
transmission company. Part of the associated cost would be financed under the proposed project.
The issue of long-term required return on fixed assets is complicated by the fact that the capacity of the
transmission system considerably exceeds current and projected requirements. GNERC has taken the
position that EG should earn an adequate rate of return only on that portion of revalued assets which are in
service. The Association has concurred with this position, on the grounds that allowing a return on
unutilized assets would merely inflate the cash position of the company, at the cost of high transmission
tariffs. However, this issue will continue to be a part of the dialogue with the government, and will be
reviewed as demand increases.
The financial prognosis for ED at the current tariff is also satisfactory, both in terms of profitability and
cash flow, with the proviso that upward adjustments may be needed to counter the projected negative cash
flows over the first three years of operation. If operating costs equal or exceed projections, shortfalls in
cash will lead to the accumulation of additional debts, which will in turn lead to ongoing losses and cash
flow deficits.
The tariff levels required by EG and ED reflect in part the probable inefficiencies associated with
maintaining separate regional facilities and staff for the transmission and dispatch companies, as well as
the expected lag in achieving acceptable levels of collections, and the limited cash flow of the dispatch
company. However, if the operations of the transmission and dispatch companies were merged, it might be
possible to reduce overall operating costs, particularly in the regional departments. In addition, the surplus
cash flow of the transmission company would be available to help finance some of the investment
requirements of the dispatch operations. Financial projections indicate that a merged company would be
able to avoid cash flow problems, and achieve positive returns by 2006 even in the absence of any
efficiency gains.
It was agreed that GNERC will adopt tariffs satisfactory to IDA which would ensure thefinancial
viability of ED and EG as a condition of Board presentation, and this condition is deemed to be satisfied
at current tariff levels. It was further agreed that the Government would examine ways to increase
efficiency of system operation, including, inter alia, merging EG and ED into a single company, to
minimize the impact on tariffs caused by dispatch and transmission being operated by separate
companies. In support of internal restructuring and enhancing the efficiency of the dispatch operations, the
Government has also agreed to appoint a qualified internationalfirm under a management contract to
manage the operations of the dispatch company. Part of the associated cost would be financed under the
proposed project.
- 63 -



Table 5.8
Georgian Electricity Financial Restructuring Plan
Power Sector Debt Obligations
199      2000     2001      2002     2003     2004      2005     2006     2007      2008     2009
Projected Electricity Billed        GWh       4,633    4,901    5,053    5,210    5,371      5,537    5,708     5,840     5,974    6,111    6,251
Debt Obligations - No Rescheduling
Donor Debt
Total Payments                   mm GEL      6.2      6.2       6.2      6.2      6.2       6.2      1.6       1.6      7.3      10.4      10.4
Total Targeted Debt              mm GEL      6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0      1.4       1.4      5.6       8.7      8.7
Total Untargeted Debt            mm GEL      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.       0,2       0.2      1,7       1.7      1.7
Foreign Debt
Total Foreign Debt               mm GEL      0.0      211.8    20.4      20.4     20.4     20.4      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Targeted Foreign Debt      mm GEL    0D0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Untargeted Foreign Debt    man GEL     0.0     211.8    20.4       20.4     20.4     20.4      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Domestic Debt
Total Domestic Debt Payment Stream   mm GEL  0 0      355 3     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Per kWH Revenues Requirement
Donor Debt
Total Payments                    tetri      0.13     0.13     0.12      0.12     0.11     0.11      0.03     0.03      0.12     0.17      0.17
Total Targeted Debt                teti      013      0.12     0.12      0.11     0.11     0.11      0.02     0.02      0.09     0.14      0.14
Total Untargeted Debt              tetri     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.03     0.03      0.03
Foreign Debt
Total Payments                    tetri     0.00      4,32     0.40      0.39     0.38     0.37      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Targeted Debt                tetfi     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Untargeted Debt              tetri     0.00     4.32     0.40      0.39     0.38     0.37      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Domestic Debt
Total Current Debt Payment Stream  tetri     0.00     7.25     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total
Per kWh - 100% Collections        tetri      0.0      11.57    0.41      0.40     0.38     0.37      0.00     0.00      0.03     0.03      0.03
Per kWh - 60% Collections         tetri               19.3      0.7      0.7       0.6      0.6      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
- 64 -



Table 5.9
Debt Restructuring Plan
Action                                                      Responsibility          Target
Date
1. Identify debts and terms, and assign priorities for restructuring  MFE, MinFin, Debt  Done
and repayment.                                              Commission
2. Establish a Subcommittee within the Debt Commission, which  Debt Commission, MFE,  Done
would be responsible for defining and negotiating revised debt  GNERC
repayment arrangements.
3. Appoint negotiations advisors                            MFE                     Done
4. For the initial high priority debts, develop a preferred  MFE, GNERC Advisors   3/31/01
restructuring strategy, including desired adjustments to repayment
terms and prepare initial schedule of surcharges to settle outstanding
debts on basis of preferred restructuring plan. Obtain agreement of
Debt Commission to proposed strategy.
5. Review legislative acts to deternine whether amendments are  GNERC, WEM          Done
needed to allow for necessary institutional and procedural changes,
and initiate adoption of any necessary amendments.
6. Establish "debt holding company" and transfer all agreed  MFE                    Done
receivables/payables a.)
Note: By July 2001, this would be a shell company with the
minimum staff required to maintain accounting records.
7. Begin negotiations with creditors                        MFE, Advisors           4/30/01
8. Prepare revised repayment schedule based on results of   MFE, Advisors           7/1/01
negotiations to date c.)
9. Introduce an initial tariff surcharge to provide for debt repayment.  GNERC      7/1/01
10. Establish an escrow account in the National Bank to hold  MFE                   7/1/01
monies collected through the surcharge until such time as repayment
terms have been agreed.
11. Appoint a suitable entity such as the Wholesale Electricity  MFE, Debt Commission    6/1/01
Market to act as settlements agent,b.) to administer the escrow
account and disburse payments to creditors in accordance with the
schedule to be agreed during debt restructuring negotiations.
12. Begin debt repayment in accordance with payment schedule  Settlements Agent/ WEM   9/30/01
- 65 -



Notes:
a. The "debt holding company" will have no functions, responsibilities or staff. It is merely a
financial vehicle to hold outstanding liabilities and receivables and record settlements.
b. The settlements agent will be transparent and independent of any debtors or creditors. Hence,
it is proposed that it be a separate arm of the WEM, administered by the WEM's management
contractor. If necessary, the Market Rules will be amended to allow the WEM to fulfill this
function without compromising the process of regular payments to market members. The
settlements agent will not receive any compensation for its services (apart from incremental
operating costs). Its financial transactions will be audited annually by an independent auditor, and
the audit report made available to all creditors.
c. Since it might not be possible to reach agreement with all creditors by the target date,
repayment of some of the priority creditors will begin in accordance with the preferred schedule
before the full repayment plan has been defined.
- 66 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Procurement
The procurement of civil works, goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995,
revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, and
January 1999. the project components, their estimated cost, and procurement methods are summarized in
Annex 6, Table A. A Procurement Plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major
procurement actions is presented in Annex 6, Table C. All other procurement information, including the
capability of the implementing agency, actual dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process,
is presented in Annex 6, Table B.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Category                                                                         =
ICB             Other            NIF/2           TOTAL
Goods and
Equipment
1.1               Metering,             21.46                                            21.46
SCADA/EMS
Telecommunications,  (19.38)                                           (19.38)
MIS_                                                           _
1.2.              Transmission                                           11.02            11.02
1.3               Spare parts and                        0.20                             0.20
replacement items                     (0.18)                           (0.18)
1.4               Minor equipment                        0.50                             0.50
and material       .                  (0.45)                           (0.45)
2               Management
Services
2.1               Management                                             5.18             5.18
Contracts-WEM                                           _
2.2               Management            12.21                                             12.21
Contracts - T&D /3   (4.05)                                            (4.05)
3               Consultant Services
3.1               Project Preparation                    1.44                             1.44
and                                   (1.15)                           (1.15)
Implementation
(General
Consultant for
IDA-financed
project, debt
restructuring)
3.2.              TA for KfW-                                             0.45            0.45
financed project
3.3               Audit of Dispatch                      0.5                               0.5
and Transmission                      (0.4)                            (0.4)
_______________    Companies  -
- 67 -



3.4                  Transmission                                0.31                                  0.31
system                                     (0.25)                                (0.25)
environmental
action plan
4                  Miscellaneous                                                      _
4.1 Recurrent cost    Incremental                                0.64                                  0.64
operating costs of                         (0.52)                                (0.52)
PSO (PIU)                                                  .
4.2                  PPF 4/                                      1.25                                   1.25
(1.0)                                 (1.0)
Total                                         33.67              4.84               16.65              55.16
IDA                                          (23.43)              (3.95)                              (27.37)
1/ ICB - Intematonal Competitive Bidding
2/ N.I.F. non-IDA financing
3/ Joint Financing IDA, KfW, Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcerizatsia
All figures include physical and price contingencies.
4/ PPF includes technical assistance for project preparation and debt restructuring.
Note: Other: includes procurement of spare parts and some equipment which need to be replaced in the
existing systems and have to be supplied by the original supplier (estimated to cost up to US$50,000 with
an aggregate of US$200,000) through DC; procurement of minor equipment and material (estimated to cost
100,000 with an aggregate of US$500,000) through IS; Consulting Services for engineering, procurement
and project management, and for preparation of transmission system environmnental action plan under
QCBS method; and auditors under LC method.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
|Table B - Section 1: Procurement Review
Lquipmnent and       ICB              NCO               IS              NS         Minor Works          Other        Percentage of
Management                                                                                           methods       Credit amount
Contracts                                                                                                        subject to prior
review
Procuremerit           all             N/A       minor eqtipment        N/A             N/A           spare parts
tilresholds:                                        and material                                     DC <50,000
individual and                                      IS<10,000                                        (200,000)
aggregate                                           (50((,000)
Prior Review    All              N/A             first two        N/A             N/A              all              100 .
contracts
Consultants     QCBS             QBS             Fixed budget   I.CS               Qualifications   Single Source   Individuals
Based selection
'rocurement         200,000            N/A             NJA        audit (500,000)       N/A              N/A           legal and
mlethod                                                                                                                 finianicial
thresholds                                                                                                              advisors
Prior Review    all                    N/A             N/A              all             N/A              N/A        Above
_.I_                                                                               USD50,00)
FEx-post review    Each contract which is not subject to prior review
I'able B- Section 2: Capacity of the Implementation Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The Project Service Organization (PSO) will consist of the tbilowing stafl. PIU Director, Irocurement contrLcts specialist. Fiianicial
Manager/Accountant, 7'echnical Specialist. Interpreter. anid Teatn Assistant. All necessary tecniical supporn will be providied by the Transmission
and Dispatch Companies. Transmission anid Dispatch companies will have an Ioteniational Project Management/Procureinent consultant to be
selected by end 2001. aller management coitractor for the two companies is selected. Training in prociremettt attd fittancial maniagement will be
provided bv the Banik.
Couwtv Procuremenit Assessment Report or Country Procuremeint    |Arc the bidding documeits for the prociement actionis oftlie first yea-r
Strategy Paper status: Couintry PiocturemeitStSuategy Paperwas done in |ready by negotialtionis7
i1995                                                            | Yes, for Corporate kManagernent Contracts aind Pi-oject Managemient
C (ontracts.
-68 -



Table B-Section 3: 'I'raining, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimialed date of Project    Actual date of publication   Indicate if tiere is  Domestic Preference for  Domestic Prelercnce fot
Launch                    of General Procurement    procuremexnt subject to  Goods                      Works if applicable
Workshop                  Notice                   mandatory SPN in           Yes X                    Yet
June 2001                 16112/Y9 it will be       Development Busiiiess     No                        No X
republished at negotiations  Yes X
time                     No
Retroactive Financing                                                        Advance procurement
Yes No X                                                                     Yes NoX
F.xplain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: PSO will supply status of procureement activities and provide quarterly updates of the
procurement plan in eachl quarterly progress report.
Co-financing: Explaiu briefly the procuremcent arrangements under co-fitUallcing: Wlhen joint Bank and other donors finaice is used the Bank's
(ttideiiites will apply (this applies for the Management Contract for Transmission and Dispatcl, finaniced by I)IA and KI;tW). For procurement
finaniced by KtV or EBRI) the rules of KiW or EBRD will be applied respectively (parallel financing).
Table B-Section 4: Procurement Staffing.
Indicate name of procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of task 'eam responsible for the procurement of the Project Name: 'Vladislav Krasikov,
Procurement SpecialisL Ext. 562 2065. Snezana Mitrovic, Sr. Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32182
Y.-xplain brietly the expressed role of the Country Office in prwcurement: The field oftice in Georgia does not have a procurement staff.
Annex 6, Table C: Georgia: Electricity Market Support Project, Procurement Plan
1           2            3            4             5         Estimated  Estinmated    Estimated    Estimnated    Estimated
tdates    dates       dates        dates        dates
Description   l'ype 2     Number of   Estimated    Procurement Pre-qtiaLiSL  (BD/RFP)    Bid            Con.tract    Contract
I                        slices'itemsi  cost 4      Method S     1. Invitation   L         1. invitation  signing    completion
sub-packages                           GNP/SPAN/ Preparation   GPN/SPN/L
3                                      Local                     ocal
2. Opening                2. Openinig
3.                        3.
Eval&Reco                Eval&Reco
tu                ~~~m
________                                        ~~~~~~~~~Award    _  _  _  _ _ _ _
Equipment
and goods
Meterin2         S&l           t          2.200         I(B                   Auguest-Nov. I Dec. 20111  June. 200)2  Jttne 2005
2()1)1    2.Feb. 2002
3.May.20)02   _
SCADA&Co         S&l           2          17,780        ICBI     l.Agtust      July-Nov.  1. Dec. 2001  Sep 2(K)2    March 201)5
inmunication                                                     2()()1          2001      2. June 2002
2. Oct. 2001              3. Aug.2001
3. Nov. 2001 _I      _
Management       S&l          3          1.10)         _1_B                        July    1. Dec. 2(001  Apri 21)02   December
I nlolmatioll                                                                  20(01-Nov.  2. Feb. 20)02             2()()3
Systems                                                                          2 2001    3. Apr.20(02
Environment      (             1         380            I(B                        Sep.    1. Jan. 2(003  June 2003    Dec. 2004
at                                                                             21(K)2-Dec.  2. March
Management                                                                       2002      2003
Plan                                                                                       3. June 2003
Tranismiiissioni  Nll         N/A         11.02(        N/A                       Sep.                  Sep. 200)2    Dec. 2004
2001 -,ug.
n2)2002
Spare parts       G            5           200)         DC           N/A          N/A      Throughi life
&                                                                                          of the project
replacement
items
Minor             Gi           6           500           IS                                Throuph life
equipment                                                                                  of dte project
and material
Total                                    33,180
equipment &
goods                                                      .                                       ._=
- 69 -



Managemen
t
Services                                                                   __      __
Manaigemenit MS          NIF          5,180       N/A          May 2000   June-Nov,   1. Dec. 2000 July 2001    Juie 2005
Contract--                                                                 2000         2. March
WEM                                                                                     2001
3. June 2001
Managemient MS           i            12,210      ICB          July 2000    July-Nov.    1. Dec. 2000 July 2001    June 2005
Contract                                                                   2000         2. March
T&D                                                                                    03.June 2001
'rotal                                17,390
Managemen
t Services
Consultant
Services                                                                        .  _
C,eneral    CS           1            1,440       QCBS         July 2000    May 2001    1. July 2001  Oct. 2001    June 2005
Ceonsultalit                                                                            2. Aug. 2001
fir                                                                                     3. Oct.2001
IDA-Fiuatce
d Project
TA for KfW- CS           NIF         450          NYA          N/A         N/A          N/A         NI/A         N/A
friainced
oroject 7                         _                                    _                                _         .
Audit of    CS           1            500         LCS          April 2001   May 2001    1. June 2001  Oct. 2001    July 2003
Dispatch and                                                                            2. Aug. 2001
Transmission.                                                                           3. Oct 2001
Companies                             __________
Transmissiorn CS         1            310         QC'BS        Oct. 2002    Oct.-Nov..  1. Dec. 2002 April 2003   Dec. 2003
system                                                                     2002         2. Jan. 2003
environment                                                                             3. April
al action                                                                               2003
plan                                                                                                             _
rotal                                2,700
Consulting
PSO (PUt)  RC            Other 9     640          NiA         N/A          N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A
Operating
costs 8                                                                                        _
'Fotal                               1 55,160      _           _            _
I Nanm of package or contract.
2 CODE: CW for civil works; S&1 for Supply and Install: G for goods; TK for tuni-key; SC for specialized services, CS for Consulting Services, TA
for Techmical Assistants, TR for training.
3 Number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package.
4 Expressed in US$'000: for example 5,000 = U3S$ 5,000,0)0
5 CODE: ICB (for International Competitive Bidding): IS (Intemational Shopping); QBCS (for Quality and Cost based selection of consultant firms);
QBS (for Quality Based selection of consultant firms). FXB (for Fixed Budget selection of consultant finns), LCS (for Least cost selection of
cosusultant finns). CM (for coiutiercial practices for selection of consultants by private sector beneficiaries); SS (for sole-sourcing of firms or
individuals).
6 Two stage bidding for SCADA and Telecom.
7 Parallel implementaton in accordance with KfW schedule.
8 Includes incremental staff salaries, equiptnenL and maintenance cost, office rehabilitationi, staff training and travel, publications of SPNs in local and
inteniationial press.
9 Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget).
- 70 -



Disbursement
Allocation of Credit Proceeds (Table D)
Both Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia are expected to disburse the IDA Credit over a period
of 4.5 years. The anticipated completion date is June 30, 2005 and the closing date is December 31, 2005.
Disbursements will follow traditional Bank disbursement procedures and will be made against eligible
expenditures. Table D below shows estimated disbursements during the life of the Project, and Table E
shows allocation of Credit proceeds.
Table D: Expected Disbursement of the IDA Credit (US$ million equiv.)
Bank FY       Semester        Incremental        Cumulative             %
2002             I               1.64               1.64                6%
II              1.64               3.28                12%
2003             I               2.74              6.02                22%
11              3.28              9.30                 34%
2004             I               4.11              13.41               49%
11              5.47              18.88                69%
2005             I               4.11              22.99                84%
11              3.28              26.27                96%
2006             I               1.09              27.37               100%
- 71 -



Statement of Expenditures. The Bank will make disbursements on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (a) for contracts for goods and equipment below US$ 100,000, (b) for consulting
services contracts with firms below US$100,000 and with individuals below US$50,000, and
(c) for incremental operating costs. Supporting SOE documentation will be maintained by the
PIU and made available for review by auditors and Bank missions.
Special Accounts. Tofacilitate the Credit disbursement, the PSO will openr two Special
Accounts at a bank acceptable to IDA. It was agreed that the financial institution holding the
Special Accounts would be acceptable to the Association provided that adequate arrangements
were in place to ensure that the Project Service Organization could (a) execute both foreign
exchange and local currency transactions; (b) arrange to open letters of credit; (c) handle a
large number of transactions promptly; and (d) receive prompt and detailed monthly statements
of transactions and balances. According to the Association's standard requirements, it would be
necessary for the Association to receive assurances that amounts deposited in the Special
Accounts would not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to
creditors of the Borrower or the subsidiary Borrowers. The Special Accounts will be drawn
upon to meet payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. The PSO
will maintain and operate these accounts under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The Bank, upon request, will make an authorized allocation of US$0.4 million equivalent for
each Special Account. Initially and until total disbursements reach US$2.6 million equivalent
for each company, the allocation will be limited to US$0.2 million for both accounts.
Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of
the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever comes first. Replenishment applications will be
supported by appropriate documentation, e.g., a bank statement for each Special Account and a
reconciliation of the bank statement against Bank records.
- 72 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table E: Allocation of Proceeds from the IDA Credits (in US$ million equivalent):
Expenditure Category       IDA                Financing Percentage
Credit
Goods and Equipment              17.76   100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures, (ex-factory cost), and
800/o of other local expenditures
Management Services               4.05    100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures
Consultants Services              1.80    80% of expenditures
Incremental Operating Cost        0.52    80% of expenditures
Reimbursement of PPF              1.00
Unallocated                       2.24
Total                            27.37
Incremental Operating Costs include the costs of the PSO and two years of audit.
Financial Management Assessment
1 Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
This summary of the financial management review for the Electricity Market Support Project in Georgia
reflects the situation as of April 5, 2001.
Overall Status and Accountability: The financial management system satisfies Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. Even though the existing project accounting software meets the Bank's
minimum requirements, additional actions are needed to improve the cost-effectiveness of the system and
make it better suited for producing Project Management Reports (PMRs). It was, therefore, agreed at
negotiations that a new accounting software will be installed by July 1, 2001, and that the PSO should be
able to prepare quarterly PMRs by September 30, 2001 (see the time-based Action Plan in Annex 6). The
necessary improvements in the financial management systems of project beneficiaries -- Electrogadatsema
and Electrodispatcherizatsia -- is included in the project.
Arrangements for Oversight and Accountability: The Ministry of Fuel and Energy is the sole owner of the
three beneficiaries Electrogadatsema, Electrodispatcherizatsia and the Wholesale Electricity Market.
(WEM will only be using the Credit to finance its management contract, which will be outside of the
jurisdiction of the PSO.) In principle, the control structure for the three entities has three tiers: (i) the
general assembly, (ii) the supervisory board (duly constituted in accordance with Georgian Law of
Entrepeneurship and (iii) the company management. The International Management Consultant taking over
the management of EG and ED will have to report and make recommendations to the supervisory boards,
- 73 -



and also to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The management contracts will form the framework for the
development of the companies, including financial management, during the five-year period of the project.
The PSO will implement the project, but the Ministry of Fuel and Energy will be responsible for
authorizing the payments under the Management Contracts. This arrangement is necessary because of the
conflict of interest that would otherwise arise if the PSO were to manage the funds for the payment fees to
the Management Contractors to whom they report. However, on condition that the Ministry authorizes all
payments to the Management Contractors, the PSO could handle all the accounting.
Fund Flow. The Project will be financed from four sources: IDA, KfW, EBRD and the Borrower. The
total project cost is US$56.6 million. The IDA Credits will be disbursed from the Bank either as direct
payments to suppliers or to Special Accounts. The project beneficiaries Electrogadatsema and
Electrodispatcherizatsia will each open one Special Account at a bank acceptable to the World Bank. The
PSO will be responsible for day-to-day contacts with the World Bank and other financing sources
concerning direct payment requests, special account replenishment requests, payments to suppliers from the
special accounts, as well as the document flow and the accounting of all transactions. The PSO will also
play an important role in the review and payment of supplier invoices. A detailed Project Flow of Funds
covering all sources of funds, and including project accounting procedures, has been designed by the Bank
and agreed upon during negotiations (see Financial Management Assessment in the Project File). The
details of who will prepare, review, and authorize will be prepared by Financial Consultant and
documented in the Operating Manual.
The four financing sources are detailed below:
a)    The IDA funds (UJS$27.4 million, of which US$ 23.4 will be disbursed by the PSO and US$ 4.0
from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy) will be disbursed in accordance with the traditional direct method.
The use of direct disbursement will enable the use of Statements of Expenditures (SOE) procedures for
smaller contracts, and two Special Accounts for this purpose will be opened in a commercial bank
acceptable to the World Bank.
b)     KfW (US$ 11.4 million in total, of which US$ 10.4 and US$ 1.0 will be disbursed by the PSO and
the Ministry of Fuel and Energy respectively) will be mainly disbursed using the direct disbursement
method and will pay its contribution directly to contractors and suppliers. KfW will on a timely basis send
source documents (mainly vouchers) to the PSO, where they will be entered into the accounting system.
c)     EBRD (US$ 0.92 million).
d)     Own contributions will amount in total to US$16.9 million. In the past, counterparts have had
difficulties in contributing local funds for project financing. The reasons have been low tariffs and poor bill
collection, resulting in large arrears. Tariffs for the beneficiary Companies are now satisfactory. The hiring
of international management contractors to manage the transmission and dispatch companies, as well as the
Wholesale Electricity Market, should improve financial discipline in the system and reduce the risk that
counterpart financing will not be available.
Financial Management Risk: Financial management risks in Georgia are considered high in general.
To bring the financial management risk of the project to acceptable level, implementation of the
following measures have been agreed upon: a competent, international management contractor
will be hired at the start of the project to manage project beneficiary companies during
- 74 -



implementation of the project; experienced and qualified staff at the Project Service Organization
have been hired -- and will be maintained throughout project implementation -- with significant
experience in managing international projects, including IDA-financed ones; an international
financial consultant will be hired to review and strengthen -- if necessary -- accounting and
internal control procedures and routines to be documented in an operating manual, and to
upgrade the project accounting software; and an international auditor will be hired to audit project
accounts and financial statements of the beneficiary organizations.
1.1 Financial Management in Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia
Current Status: EG's and ED's financial management is not satisfactory and needs to be improved. This
will be one of the main areas of responsibility for the International Management Contract.or, and will be an
on-going process over the life of the project, with the aim of reorganizing and modernizing the financial
management of both companies. Both companies should be able to prepare their financial statements in IAS
format by December 31, 2001.
Accounting Standards and Accounting at HQ level: At the HQ level of both Companies there is one
central accounting unit that compiles information from the combined total of 38 accounting units with
approximately 15 - 20 staff at each. Each central accounting unit is responsible for the accounting of all
revenues as well as payments to suppliers and creditors for the whole country. Further, on a monthly basis
the two central accounting units receive and enter accounting documentation from their respective
accounting units. The branches are cost centers, which means that the accounting units only handle their
own local costs. Until this year EG and ED had a manual accounting model, a modification of a Soviet
accounting model first introduced in 1954, which focused on tax accounting and the reporting and
regulatory requirements of different state agencies. The Law on Regulation of Accounting and Reporting,
which was adopted in Georgia, radically changed this situation by stipulating, inter alia, that Georgia shall
adopt IAS and establishes a "Georgian Accounting Standard Commission". Thus, EG began using IAS
from January 1, 2000, and ED will do likewise from January 1, 2001. Georgian Auditing and Consulting
Company, consultants financed by USAID, have tailored a new Chart of Accounts for the Power Sector as
well as training in IAS and the installation of hardware and software (Accounting Office 2000) for both
companies.
Accounting at Branch Level: The introduction of international accounting standards by both EG and ED
only covers central accounting at HQ level and not accounting at branch level. EG's 23 branches and ED's
13 branches all have manual accounting. Their accounting units have not been affected by the introduction
of LAS at HQ level and still do their reporting in accordance with earlier rules. These manual accounting
procedures are very work intensive both for the HQs and the branch offices and there is obviously a great
need for rationalization and simplification.
Company Management: ED and EG will be managed by a Management Consultant, whose selection
through international bidding is under way. As improved financial performance is one of the main
objectives of the Management Contract, the Consultant will be responsible for the rationalization of the
branches, including the accounting units. More specifically, to improve administrative accountability, the
Management Consultant will:
a)    develop, supervise and direct the installation of computerized administrative and accounting
systems and train the employees in their use;
b)    supervise, direct and assist specialists of the companies to compile and maintain operational,
- 75 -



maintenance and financial records (in both Georgian and English), and to report to the Supervisory Boards
within 5 business days after the end of each calendar month in summary form on facilities and systems
operations, maintenance activities, financial performance, and other relevant information;
c)    cooperate with consultants working with the companies to convert to International Accounting
Standards;
d)    at least once a month, or as otherwise necessary, meet with the Authorized Representatives and the
Supervisory Boards to review together these reports and the results of the activities undertaken under the
Contract.
Staffing: The accounting personnel in both companies showed great interest in their respective companies'
development and, by own account, had training at university or institute level. Accounting skills at the HQ
level at each of the two companies are adequate. It will be the responsibility of the international
Management Consultant to review staffing and to identify recruitment and training needs.
1.2 Financial Management of the Project/PSO
The PSO will implement the project but the Ministry of Fuel and Energy will be responsible for the
Management Contracts to avoid conflict of interest issues (see above). The Ministry will handle the
approval of disbursement withdrawal applications, the administration of invoices from the Management
Consultant, and the reconciliation of accounting infornation. The PSO will handle all book-keeping, which
will allow project accounting to encompass the whole project as well as making it unnecessary for the
Ministry to establish a project accounting system for its limited number of contracts. With this
arrangement, the Ministry should reconcile its balances with those of the PSO on a monthly basis.
Project Accounting System: The PSO uses American Fundware 7.0, which is the accounting software
used for the Power Rehabilitation project (also financed by IDA), and which is adequate to fulfill the
fiduciary requirements of the Bank. However, American Fundware 7.0 lacks multi-currency capability and
transactions in foreign currencies must therefore be entered into the system several times; one entry for
each currency involved. Further, a reporting module would have to be installed for the system to
automatically produce PMRs. Therefore, to improve cost-effectiveness, it has been agreed that new
accounting software will be installed by July 1, 2001.
Accounting Procedures: Project accounting and internal control procedures are documented in an
Operating Manual covering, inter alia, project organization, staff responsibilities, project accounting
procedures, the chart of accounts, internal control, authorization, reporting format, access to hardware and
software, etc. The manual satisfies the Bank's requirements.
Transaction Trail: It is important to establish a transaction trail between PSO accounting and the three
beneficiary companies' accounting. Therefore, all the fixed assets of the Project must also be entered in the
Companies' fixed asset registers. To make this possible, it has been agreed that a copy of all source
documents will be sent to EG and ED on a regular basis. It has also been agreed that both these
Companies shall supply the PSO, on a monthly basis, with accounting lists that make it possible for the
project accountant to reconcile the records of the project accounting with the corresponding accounting
records of the two Companies. The PSO will store the original source documents in an appropriate manner
(preferably steel cabinets).
Escrow Accounts: It has been agreed that the beneficiaries will allocate funds to the escrow accounts
sufficient to cover the requirements for counterpart contributions for the following three months. It has
- 76 -



also been agreed that the PSO will make forecasts on a quarterly basis showing how much EG and ED
need to pay into their respective accounts each quarter, and that these forecasts will be included in the
quarterly PMRs. The establishment of the escrow accounts with an initial deposit equivalent to a 3-month
expected disbursement of local funds will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Staffing: The PSO is headed by a project director, who is reporting to the management of EG and ED.
The Management Contractor will have full authority over the PSO. Other key project team members are
the procurement and financial specialists who are already in place. PSO Director and his deputy, a
procurement specialist, have already been appointed.
Quarterly Reporting: Quarterly project management reports (PMRs), which should be seen as part of the
progress report, are to be submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each quaxter. The PMRs
will follow the accrual model format and cover the following areas:
Financial Report:
1) Project Sources and Uses of Funds
2) Uses of Funds by Project Activity
3) Project Balance Sheet
4) Project Cash Withdrawals
5) Special Account Statement (to be adjusted for traditional disbursement)
6) Project Cash Forecast (not required for this Project)
Project Progress Report:
1) Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management)
2) Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by project activity)
Procurement Management Report:
I) Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
2) Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services)
3) Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
4) Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)
Annual Reporting: The audited annual Entity Financial Statements (Income Statement, Fund Flow
Statement, and Balance Sheet) of EG, ED, and Wholesale Electricity Market and the audited Project
Financial Statements with accompanying audit reports shall be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year.
2. Audit Arrangements
Audit Arrangements:
Audits will be carried out annually by independent extemal auditors acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with international standards of auditing (ISA). The intention is for the beneficiary companies to
pay for annual audits, but the audit for the first two years cannot be self-financed and funmcs have been
allocated for this from the Credit. The auditor should be selected by October 2001 and the selection will
follow Bank procurement guidelines. The scope of the annual audits will include the project financial
statements (including SA and SOE), and the company financial statements for the two beneficiaries, EG
and ED. Audited financial statements shall be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the
fiscal year. The auditors should be engaged for at least three years. If in the future the auditor is to be
- 77 -



changed, the new auditor shall be in place by October of the year to be audited.
The measures to be taken, described in the Action Plan below, to improve financial management of the
PSO were agreed during negotiations. Due to the uncertainty concerning the tax status of foreign
consultants in Georgia, no agreement has yet been reached with regard to the financial consultant. The
following Action Plan is based on the assumption that an agreement will be reached in early April 2001.
Action 2 and Action 4 must be implemented before a 4b certificate can be issued. The present accounting
system fulfills the fiduciary requirements of the Bank and the implementation of the new accounting system
is not therefore seen as a requirement for 4b certification.
1     Financial Consultant to be appointed to install new
accounting software and document its relevant features   Early April
in the Operating Manual.                           2001
2      Software for project to be installed, tested and capable   July 1, 2001    Dated
of producing Project Management Reports 1-A, I-B,                Covenant
1 -C, and 1-E.
3      Bank's review and assessment of the new software.  July 31, 2001
4      Open Special Accounts for EG and ED.               June 30, 2001
5      Open escrow accounts for payments financed from local  June 30, 2001 Effectiveness
funds and make initial deposits (Electrogadatsema and            Condition
Electrodispetcherizatsia)
6      Present shortlist of project auditors for the audit of
project and company financial statements for the year    June 30, 2001
2001.
7      Appointment of Management Consultant for ED and    June 30, 2001  Effectiveness
EG                                                               Condition
8      Prepare first Project Management Report            September 30, Dated
2001         Covenant
9     Appointment of Auditor acceptable to the Bank      October, 2001
- 78 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
PrOJ64'o''' acwedd Plann*d    "';'__'_'____, __
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              02/03/98                     02/03/98
Appraisal mission departure                      02/15/2000                   02/09/2000
Negotiations                                     12/11/2000                   01/26/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/30/2001
Prepared by:
Electrodispatcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema, with support from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy.
Preparation assistance:
A PHRD Grant; PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Vladislav Vucetic                 Task Team Leader/Sr. Energy Specialist
Nicholay Chistyakov               Senior Disbursement Officer
Surekha Jaddoo                    Operations Analyst
Josephine Kida                    Prograrn Assistant
Vakhtang Kvekvetsia               Financial Analyst
Vladislav Krasikov                Procurement Specialist
Snezana Mitrovic                  Sr. Procurement Specialist
Nikolay Nikolov                   Operations Analyst
Jonathan Pavluk                   Senior Counsel
Jonathan Walters                  Program Team Leader/Lead Energy Economist
Margaret Wilson                   Consultant/Financial Analyst
Karl Enar Wennerstrom             Sr. Financial Analyst
- 79 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A draft Project Implementation Plan, January 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Projections for Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia
Aide-memoirs for project preparation missions
C. Other
George Schaeffer: Georgia: Financial Restatement and Analysis of Electrogadatsema, Draft Report,
November 4, 1999
George Schaeffer: Georgia: Financial Restatement and Analysis of Sakenergo Dispatch, Draft Report,
November 4, 1999
Georgia Electricity Market Support Project: Rehabilitation of Transmission Network, Final Report,
Fichtner's Report to the Government of Georgia, November 1999
Georgia Electricity Market Support Project: Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation and Upgrade of System
Dispatch, Communications, and Metering, Final Report, Fichtner, January 2000
Government of Georgia: Request for Proposal for Management Contract for Georgian Electric Power
Transmission and Dispatch, May 25, 2000
Government of Georgia: Request for Proposal for Management Contract for Georgian Wholesale
Electricity Market, May 25, 2000
Draft RfP for Management Contract for Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia.
Environmental Management Plan, Final Report, Fichtner's Report to the Government of Georgia, January
2001
Financial Management Assessment for the Electricity Market Development Project, World Bank Staff
Report, April 2001
Project Service Organization Operating Manual, draft, April 2001
Procurement Capacity Assessment World Bank Staff Report, December 2000
*Including electronic files
- 80 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Mar-2001
Dffference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P065715        2000 AGRRES EXT&TRG                                     0.00       7.60                  0.00      0.00       7.18       0.86       0.00
P040556        2000 ROADS                                              0.00      40.00                  0.00      0.00      38.48       0.00       0.00
P064091        2000 AGRIC RES. EXT. TRAINING (GEF)                     0.00       0.00                  2.48       0.00      2.34       0.09       0.00
P056514        1999 TRANS MIN RESTRUCT                                 0.00       2.30                  0.00      0.00       1.76       1.67       0.00
P057613        1999 JUDICIAL REFORM                                    0.00      13.40                  0.00      0.00      11.51       -1.43      0.00
P060009        1999 INTGR COASTAL MGMT (GEF)                           0.00       0.00                  1.30      0.00       1.21       0.26       0.00
P052154        1999 STRUCT REF SUPPORT                                 0.00      16.50                  0.00       0.00     11.90       4.94       0.00
P052153        1999 SAC III                                            0.00      60.00                  0.00       0.00     36.36      61.10       0.00
P050911        1999 INTG COASTAL MGT                                   0.00       4.40                  1.30       0.00      3.79       1.66       0.00
P008416        1999 ENTREHAB                                           0.00      15.00                  0.00       0.00     11.10       4.99       0.00
P064094        1999 ENERGY SECAC                                       0.00      25.00                  0.00       0.00     12.04      12.79       0.00
P039929        1998 SIF                                                0.00      20.00                  0.00       0.00      7.36       6.00       0.00
P055573        1998 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                  0.00       4.49                  0.00       0.00      2.22       1.74       0.00
P050910        1996 MUN DEV                                            0.00      20.90                  0.00       0.00      14.51      13.94      0.00
P008415        1997 AGRIC DEVT                                         0.00      15.00                  0.00       0.00      2.30       -0.47      0.00
P008414        1996 HEALTH                                             0.00      14.00                  0.00       0.00      6.42       7.43       0.00
Total:       0.00      258.59                5.08        0.00      172.50     115.77       0.00
- 81 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               ThilComBank                    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.01    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               Telasi                        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               ninotsminda                    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               Bank of Georgia                3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.69    0.00      0.00    0.00
Georgia G&MW Co.              0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18      0.00    0.00
1997/00            Georgia M-F Bank               0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48      0.00    0.00
1999               Ksani                          6.32    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00    0.00
1998               TBC Bank                       2.38    0.86    0.00    0.00    2.38    0.86      0.00    0.00
1998
Total Portfolio:        44.70    4.02    6.00     0.00    14.08    4.02    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              GGMW                              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 82 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: Electricity Market Support Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Cntral       Low-       - 
Georgia      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         5.5       475      2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     620      2,150       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        34       1.022      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                         T
Population (%;)                                         00         0 1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         0.0        0.6       2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year avaIlable, 1993-99)                                capita             /         enrollment
Povorty (% of popsulation below national poverty line)   11
Urban population (% of total population)                 60        67        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73        69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 15        22        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ..         S        43                Access to szife water
Access to improved water source (% of populatton)        ..         ..       64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15,-)                               3        39                Georgia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    88       100        96
Male                                                  89        101       102             --    Low-income group
Femate                                                88         99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998       1999      1
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                              .-       ..        3.5       2,7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   .      28.0       17.2      16.8                     Trade
Exports of goods anl services/GOP               ..    42 4        20.9      27.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    25.3        -3.6      -2.2                       T
Gross national savings/GOP                      ..       ..        5.9       8.8
Current account balance/GDP                              1..     M1.3       -8.0       .mt
Interest payments/GDP                                     ..      1.1        1.2     Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                           ..       48.5      63,8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                                -        7.2      11.9
Preserut value of debu/GDP                      ..        .       36.9      49.2
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    199.7       194.8
indebtedniess
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999.03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1,9    -17.2      2.9        3.3       4.8             -    Georgia
GNP per capita                        1t     -1*5.9     2.2       4.1        4.8                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..      9.9      3.5       -1.5      8e0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of investment and GDP ()
(% of GDP)                                                                           150
Agriculture                                            23.3       35.6      36.0
Industry                                               38.7       13.0      12.9    1.0
Manufacturing                                 ..    27.1         7.6       7.6     so
Services                                        ..    38.0        51.5      51.1      o                                  5
Private consumption                             ..    62.6        90.2      89.8    -so                       97   98   99
General government consumption                  ..    12.1        13.4      12.4         -GDI                     GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    45.1       41.6       46.0
1979-89  19B9-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imiports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..      3.0       -8.0       3.0    60
Industry                                        ..      5.1      -2.0        2.0    40
Manufacturing                                 ..      3.3       -1.0       3.0
Services                                        ..    19.0        16.5       1.7    20
Private consumption                             ..      6.8        9.1      -5.2 o
General government consumption                  ..    17.3         6.2     -11.4       .    94          96   97    9A
Gross domestic investment                       ..    18.9        15.5     -14.4   -20
Imports of goods and services                   ..    12.1        12.2     -12.7            -     Exports   _Imports
Gross national product                         1.9    -15.9        2.4       4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 83 -



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      In"ation (v.)
Domestic prices                                                                     2.0
(% change)                                                                          2000 
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       3.6      19.1   |"5000 +
Implicit GDP deflator                          2.8      5.4       4.5       9.4    10.000
Govemment finance                                                                   s.oo 
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                 ..    29.1       16.2      15.9               94   95   96   97   93
Current budget balance                          ..    29.1       -4.4      -5.1              -G DP deflator    e  cP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    29.1       -6.4      -6.9
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and inport levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   6,716        478       477     1,200
Black metal                                             ..       39        33
Tea                                                              43        39      s*
Manufactures                                           ..       222       249
Total imports (cif)                                   7,150     1,164     1,013
Food                                                1,685       325       281      300
Fuel and energy                                      481        205       187
Capital goods                                       1,710       231       187        o
Export pnce index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        90       93
Import prce index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        95       95                   U Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..       ..        94        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%/)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..       720      739       o
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..     1,437     1,260
Resource balance                                ..       ..      -717      -5211
-s
Netincome                                       ..       ..       117       119
Net current transfers                           ..       ..       211       182
Current account balance                         ..       ..      -389      -220     12
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..       298      209
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..        91        11    -16 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..       ..       119       133
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                     -            1.4       2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..              1,674     1,747
IBRD                                          ..       ..         0        0                      F. 17
IDA                                           ..       ..       274      346
Total debt service                              ..       ..        66       113
IBRO                                          ..        ..        0        0
IDA                                           ..       ..         2        3
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..        ..                          E: 1,007                      C: 322
Official creditors                           ..        ..        96       71
Private creditors                            ..        ..         0        17
Foreign direct investment                     ..       ..        50       62
Portfolio equity                             ..        ,.         0        0                                 . 56
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       ..        27      115      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..        ..        53       79      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..        ..         0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..      ,,         53       79
Interest payments                            ..        ..         2        3
Net transfers                                ..        ..        51       76
Development Economics
-84 -



Additional
Annex 11
Letter of Electricity Sector Policy
March 27, 2001
His Excellency
James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
As you are aware, the Government of Georgia has applied to the International
Development Association for a credit of $27.4 million equivalent to undertake an Electricity
Market Support Project. Within this context, the Government confirms its commitment to
undertake certain policy initiatives necessary for the effective development and sustainable
operation of the electricity sector. The Government hereby agrees to undertake the following
actions in a timely manner:
*     To ensure that the non-privatized electricity distribution companies 'are privatized or under
the control of professional private management, in accordance with Schedule 1, attached (transfer
to be completed by June 30, 2002);
*     To offer for sale or long-term lease the non-privatized hydropower plants' to strategic
investors through a transparent competitive process (by October 31, 2001);
To design, by June 30, 2001, and implement in a timely manner, a plan for the
privatization and/or decommissioning of the non-privatized units of Tbilsresi thermral generating
station;
To adhere to the attached Schedule 2 for restructuring the outstanding debts of the
electricity sector;
*     To adhere strictly to the terms of the Electricity and Gas Distribution Law by supporting
the mandate of GNERC to implement electricity tariffs that reflect the full costs of electricity
supply (ongoing);
To ensure timely budget disbursement of all poverty benefits (ongoing);
*     To ensure timely compensation of electricity companies from the budget for mandated
discounts to customers (ongoing);
To ensure timely payment for electricity consumption by budgetary agencies within the
limitations of the consumption agreed between the budget and the agencies (ongoing). In
- 85 -



addition, the energy companies will not be obliged to supply electricity beyond the agreed
consumption levels, unless they receive prior notification that the budget will be willing to accept
the payment obligation;
To maintain provision in the budget for the supply of electricity to Abkhazia until such
time as the problem of unpaid supplies is resolved, and to disburse these budgetary allocations in a
timely manner (ongoing).
Please accept the assurances of my highest consideration.
Sincerely yours,
Signed
E. Shevardnadze,
President
Eight regional distribution companies are to be transferred to private management: Kvemo Kartli, Shida Kartli,
Samegrelo and Zemo Svaneti, Imereti, Guria, Mtskheta-Mtraneti, Racha-Lechkhymi/Kvemo-Svaneti and
Samtskhe-Java Kheti
Five hydropower plants are to privatized: Rioni, Gumati, Lajanuri, Shaori and Dzevrula (Tkibuli)
- 86 -



Schedule 1
Transfer of Management of Non-Privatized Distribution Companies
Action                                                                     Expected Dates
1. Engage a transactions advisor to assist in the process of privatization/transfer to   March 15/01
private management. (Note that grant funds are potentially available from KfW and
US AID for this purpose.)
2. In consultation with the transactions advisor, further consolidate the 8 regional    March 1 - June
companies into a smaller number of enterprises, structured with a view to  30/01
increasing the likelihood of successful privatization
3. Solicit grant or concessionary financing from donors to support critical  March 1 - June
investments in the distribution companies (for example, improvements in the billings   30/01
and collections systems of the company(ies), metering)
4. Prepare and issue tender documents to potential private investors. Tender  June 30 -
options may include, inter alia, full privatization of a controlling interest in the  September 30/01
company(ies), interim management with an option to purchase at a fixed price at Ea
later date, or a contract to manage the company(ies) for a fixed period of time in
exchange for revenues to be defined.
5. Complete negotiations and transfer ownership responsibility to private  September 30 -
investors/contractors.                                                     December 31/01
6. If any distribution assets fail to attract competent private-sector management  March 31/02
through the tendering process, prepare terms of reference for, and enter into a
fee-for-service contract with a competent management contractor.
7. Complete transfer of management to management contractor                June 30/02
- 87 -



Schedule 2
Debt Restructuring Plan
Action                                                 Responsibility            Date
1. Identify debts and terms, and assign priorities for  MFE, MinFin, Debt        Done
restructuring and repayment.                           Commission
2. Establish a Subcommittee within the Debt Commission,  Debt Conmission, MFE,    Done
which would be responsible for defining and negotiating  GNERC
revised debt repayment arrangements.
3. Appoint negotiations advisors (financial already appointed,   MFE             2/1/01
legal selection to be cleared)
4. For the initial high priority debts, develop a preferred  MFE, GNERC Advisors    3/31/01
I restructuring strategy, including desired adjustments to
repayment terms and prepare initial schedule of surcharges to
settle outstanding debts on basis of preferred restructuring
plan. Obtain agreement of Debt Commission to proposed
strategy.
5. Review legislative acts to determine whether amendments    GNERC, WEM         Done
are needed to allow for necessary institutional and procedural
changes, and initiate adoption of any necessary amendments.
6. Establish "debt holding company" and transfer all agreed  MFE                 Done
receivables/payables
Note: By July 2001, this would be a shell company with the
minimum staff required to maintain accounting records.
7. Begin negotiations with creditors                   MFE, Advisors             4/30/01
8. Prepare revised repayment schedule based on results of  MFE, Advisors         6/30/01
negotiations to date
9. Introduce an initial tariff surcharge to provide for debt  GNERC              7/1/01
repayment.
10. Establish an escrow account in the National Bank to hold    MFE              7/1/01
monies collected through the surcharge until such time as
repayment terms have been agreed.
- 88 -



11. Appoint a suitable entity such as the Wholesale Electricity   MFE, Debt Cormnmission  7/1/01
Market to act as settlements agent to administer the escrow
account and disburse payments to creditors in accordance with
the schedule to be agreed during debt restructuring
negotiations.
12. Begin debt repayment in accordance with payment     Settlements Agent/ WEM     9/30/01
schedule
- 89 -



Additional
Annex 12
Georgia: Electricity Market Support Project -- Implementation Schedule
2001                  12002                   12003                    2004                    2005
Qtr 1 Qtr 2 |Qtr 3 |Qtr 4 lQtr 1 |Qtr 2 |Qtr 3 |Qtr4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 |Qtr 3 |Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr4
Telecommunications                                                             I    I      I
Procurement                   _             _                              I
Design
Manufacturing and
Delivery
Installation and
Comissioning
SCADA
Procurement
Design
Manufacturing and
Delivery
Installation and
Comissioning
Metering
Procurement
Design
Manufacturing and
Delivery
Installation and
Comissioning
Transmission
ProcuremTent
Design
Manufacturing and
Delivery
Installation and                                            -
Comissioning
Management Informatiion Systems 
Procurement
Design, Manufacturing,
installation and Delivery
Management Contracts
Selection
In Place
Consulting Services
Selection
In Place
90-



BED 27433
44                                  41'                                  42'                                 43'                                  44'                                  45                                   46'
GEORGIA
POWER SYSTEM
THERMAL POWER PLANT                           SELECTED CITIES
* HYDRO POWER PLANT                          0   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST ~AOL CENTEE
R'  U S -S I A N      F E D     R A T   0  N                                    *   SUBSTATION                                     AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS
X   \   ;<-   t                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R U S S I A N  F E D E R A T I O  NPOELIS* NAOALCITS
POWER LINES                                    NATIONAL CAPITALS
-;    <    \  >   A. x LT  _    220 kv         L ')Ep GLACIER AREAS
330 kV                                    -  RIVERS
-         0 TT L0                              -      MAIN ROADS
BUILT-UP URBAN AREA                       - -  SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EX    ELI  43'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
ELI Kverao>a   < \  gf-   ta -l; 2             \s          _  <                                                                         l      15    30    45    6,0       7 KIlOMETERS
nnekh
42'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TI4-
-42                                                                                 BJJ                        ,,h,t   N        --J            
UKRAINsE                        E        KAIEZAKHSTAN    "I-T
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
T U R K E Y          .        )('                    This -sp s pyddc d  he May Design bnit af Tn. Warld SonE                                                         A  R M  E N  I A
]   >           ~ ~~~~\  Ehn bosndan,s, col=s dsnnncnasans and anY other rnfarmolnaca
v  " _                            a ny I4dDment on th, legal status of GI neonnonsy on a ny .ndo7A.ZeT/
--' . r) }.  _    , ~~;    fi jj   _        an acceptance ofsuch baQndanies                                                       I* 
T_ 1,) SYRIAN ARAB REP [-  IRAO  '\  ISLAMIC REP OF IRAN              42'3'                                                                                                                                                       46'
JANUARY 1996



