Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3502 GE
EG Project Agreement
(Electricity Market Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELECTROGADATSEMA
Dated June 18, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3502 GE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ELECTROGADATSEMA, a joint-stock company operating pursuant to 
its statutes dated September 2, 1999 (Electrogadatsema), registered with the Tbilisi 
Regional Court under Registration 06/5-4, on September 10, 1999.
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Georgia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one 
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,100,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that 
Electrogadatsema agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Electrogadatsema, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to Electrogadatsema on the terms 
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Electrogadatsema, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Electrogadatsema declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and business practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Electrogadatsema shall otherwise agree, 
Electrogadatsema shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Electrogadatsema shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Electrogadatsema shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Electrogadatsema, a plan for 
the future operation of the facilities financed under Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Electrogadatsema on said plan.
Section 2.04. Electrogadatsema shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Electrogadatsema shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Electrogadatsema shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Electrogadatsema shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Electrogadatsema 
Page  3
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Electrogadatsema
Section 3.01. Electrogadatsema shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and business practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Electrogadatsema shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and business practices.
Section 3.03. Electrogadatsema shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
Section 3.04. Electrogadatsema shall furnish to the Association, for its 
comment, any proposed amendment to the company statutes, and before taking any action 
to amend company  statutes shall consider the Association’s views thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Electrogadatsema shall establish not later than December 31, 
2002, and thereafter maintain, a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
Electrogadatsema shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Electrogadatsema shall, by July 1, 2001, open and thereafter 
maintain an account in a bank, acceptable to the Association, wherein it shall deposit 
on the first business day of each quarter sufficient funds from its own resources to 
cover at least the projected counterpart financing requirements for local expenditures 
to be made under the Project in the succeeding three months.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Page  4
Electrogadatsema shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues 
and expenditures of Electrogadatsema shows that the estimated net revenues of 
Electrogadatsema for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall 
be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of Electrogadatsema in  
any future year on all debt of Electrogadatsema including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of Electrogadatsema 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
 (B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
Electrogadatsema not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Association and 
Electrogadatsema accept as reasonable and as to which the 
Association has notified Electrogadatsema of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of Electrogadatsema.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Electrogadatsema shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 
not less than 1.1.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, Electrogadatsema shall, on 
Page  5
the basis of forecasts prepared by Electrogadatsema satisfactory to the association, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Electrogadatsema would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for Electrogadatsema’s fiscal years covered by 
such review, Electrogadatsema shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to 
meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in  
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Electrogadatsema thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Electrogadatsema of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Electrogadatsema:
JSC Electrogadatsema
2 Baratashvili
Tbilisi, Georgia 380005
Facsimile:
(99532) 923142
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of 
Electrogadatsema may be taken or executed by its General Director or such other person 
or persons as the General Director shall designate in writing, and Electrogadatsema 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tevfik Yaprak
Authorized Representative
ELECTROGADATSEMA
By /s/ Boris Kojoridze
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Electrogadatsema shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
Electrogadatsema shall cooperate with Electrodispatcherizatsia to maintain the 
PSO under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, with essential staff 
including a project manager, a procurement specialist, and a financial specialist/ 
accountant.
3.
Electrogadatsema shall take all measures necessary to enable PSO to assist in 
the Project implementation, including among other things, to be responsible for the 
administration of the Special and Project Accounts, the Project accounting, financial 
management, Project reporting, auditing arrangements and procurement.
4
Electrogadatsema shall: (a) ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying 
out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner; and (b) 
include adequate information on the carrying out of such measures in the progress 
reports referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
5.
Electrogadatsema shall maintain a Management Contract with an international 
contractor, satisfactory to the Association, throughout the project implementation.  
