Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3502 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Electricity Market Support Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3502 GE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 2001, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has furnished to the Association a letter (the "Letter 
of Electricity Sector Policy"), dated March 27, 2001, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to further the reform of the Borrower's energy sector 
(the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the program, 
and defining as an integral part of the Program, a specific set of investments 
constituting a project to be undertaken in conjunction with the execution of the 
Program, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS  (C)   Parts B, C, E and F of the Project will be carried out by 
Electrodispetcherizatsia-2000 (Electrodispetcherizatsia), a limited liability company 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, and Parts A, C, D, E and F 
of the Project will be carried out by Electrogadatsema, a state joint-stock company 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, all with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema the proceeds of the Credit as provided 
Page  2
for in Article II of in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (D) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fûr Wiederaufbau 
(KfW) a loan in an amount equivalent to twenty-five million Deutsche Marks (DM 
25,000,000 ) (the KfW Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
KfW (the KfW Loan Agreement); 
WHEREAS (E) the Borrower intends to contract from the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a grant in an amount of one million euro (€
1,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the EBRD Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS (F) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement, in the ED Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and Electrodispetcherizatsia, and in the EG Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Association and Electrogadatsema;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Electrodispetcherizatsia" or "ED" means "Electrodispetcherizatsia-2000", 
a limited liability company established under the law of the Borrower pertaining to 
limited liability companies and operating pursuant to its statutes dated March 6, 
2000, and licensed to perform dispatch of the high voltage electricity transmission 
system in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
"Electrogadatsema" or "EG" means a joint stock company established under 
the law of the Borrower pertaining to joint-stock companies and operating pursuant to 
its statues dated September 2, 1999, and licensed to operate the high voltage 
Page  3
electricity transmission system in the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a) through (1)(d) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the ED Special 
Account; and Categories (2)(a) through (2)(d) set forth in said table in respect of 
the EG Special Account;
(d)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Energy Sector Adjustment Program" means the program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's 
energy sector, described in the letter dated May 14, 1999, from the Borrower to the 
Association, on the basis of which the Association, by an agreement dated June 30, 
1999, agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit in the amount of SDR 
18,100,000 (Credit No. 3266-GE); 
(f)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the environmental 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the Project;
(g)
"Letter of Electricity Sector Policy" means the letter dated March 27, 
2001, from the Borrower to the Association, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to further the reform of the Borrower's energy sector 
as referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement;
(h)
"Management Contract" means any of the performance-based management 
contracts to be entered into with an independent, private sector service provider 
pursuant to the provisions of the Program, for management of the operations of the 
Wholesale Electricity Market, Electrogadatsema, or Electrodispetcherizatsia;
(i)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(j)
"MOFE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Fuel and Energy;
(k)
"Project Accounts" means the accounts in the currency of the Borrower 
referred to in Section 4.03 of the EG Project Agreement and Section 4.03 of the ED 
Project Agreement;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 17, 2000, and on behalf of the Borrower on August 1, 
2000;
(n)
"PSO" means the project service organization, established as an entity 
under public law, for the purposes of the Project, by MOF and MOFE;
(o)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema pursuant to 
Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, respectively, as the same may be amended 
from time to time; and
(q)
"Wholesale Electricity Market" means the association of electricity 
generating companies, electricity distribution companies, Electrogadatsema, 
Electrodispetcherizatsia, and other participants in the wholesale electricity market, 
established according to the Decree of the President of the Borrower on the 
Establishment of the Wholesale Electricity Market, dated July 1, 1999. 
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of (i) Parts A, C, D, E and F 
of the Project, in respect of the activities of Electrogadatsema under the EG Project 
Agreement (the EG Special Account); and (ii) Parts B, C, E and F of the Project, in 
respect of the activities of Electrodispetcherizatsia under the ED Project Agreement 
(the ED Special Account), respectively, open and maintain in dollars a separate 
special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)  below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
Page  5
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema to 
perform, with the assistance of PSO, in accordance with the provisions of the ED 
Project Agreement and EG Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of 
Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema therein set forth, shall take or cause 
to be taken the actions provided for in the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and all other action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to 
Electrodispetcherizatsia under a subsidiary loan agreement (the ED Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Electrodispetcherizatsia, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall 
include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to 
Electrogadatsema under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the EG Subsidiary Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and Electrogadatsema, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall include those 
Page  6
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ED Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the ED Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the EG Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the EG Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall maintain the Management Contracts in respect of 
Electrogadatsema, Electrodispetcherizatsia, and the Wholesale Electricity Market with 
independent, private sector service providers, satisfactory to the Association, 
throughout the Project implementation.  
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the 
Wholesale Electricity Market, Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema are able 
to meet their financial obligations as they fall due, including those under the 
Management Contracts.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) the 
activities of Electrogadatsema under Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project shall be 
carried out by Electrogadatsema pursuant to Section 2.03 of the EG Project Agreement; 
and (b) the activities of Electrodispetcherizatsia under Parts B, C, E and F of the 
Project shall be carried out by Electrodispetcherizatsia pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the ED Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
Page  7
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
September 30, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare, or 
cause to be prepared, quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause PSO to implement the financial management 
system action plan by July 1, 2001, in accordance with the terms of reference agreed 
Page  8
with the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Electrodispetcherizatsia or Electrogadatsema shall have failed to perform 
any of their obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Electrodispetcherizatsia or Electrogadatsema will be able to 
perform their obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
(c)
Law of the Borrower of June 27, 1997, on Natural Gas and Electricity, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
Electrodispetcherizatsia or Electrogadatsema to perform any of their obligations under 
the respective Project Agreement.
(d)
The KfW Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by December 
31, 2001, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
(f)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program referred to in Paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (f) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
Page  9
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has taken the prior actions described in the Letter of 
Electricity Sector Policy satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
Management Contracts shall have been entered into with independent, 
private sector service providers, selected pursuant to the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 of this Agreement, for the purpose of providing services in connection with 
the operation of the Wholesale Electricity Market, Electrogadatsema, and 
Electrodispetcherizatsia;
(c)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been entered into between the 
Borrower and Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia, pursuant to Section 3.01 
(b) and (c) of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, and the Association 
has received evidence satisfactory to it that the same are binding and valid according 
to their terms; and 
(d)
the Project Accounts have been opened, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, and the Association has received evidence showing the 
deposit in the Project Accounts by Electrogadatsema and Electrodispetcherizatsia of 
amounts in the currency of the Borrower equivalent to $150,000 and $50,000, 
respectively, representing three months’ estimated expenditures to be made under the 
Project.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema, respectively, and the same are legally 
binding upon Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema in accordance with their 
terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and Electrodispetcherizatsia and Electrogadatsema, respectively, and 
the same are legally binding upon the Borrower and Electrodispetcherizatsia and 
Electrogadatsema, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  10
70, Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
Facsimile:
212 348 MOFIN SV
(995-32) 221-754
(995-32) 235-416
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Zurab Nogaideli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tevfik Yaprak
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Electrodispetcherizatsia
(a) Goods and equipment
  8,210,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
80% of local
expenditures
(b) Management Services
    850,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
Page  11
80% of local
expenditures
(c) Consultants’
    540,000
80%
Services and Audit
(d) Incremental
    230,000
80% 
Operating Costs
(e) Unallocated
  1,100,000
(2)
Electrogadatsema
(a) Goods and equipment
  5,450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
80% of local
expenditures
(b) Management Services
  2,230,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, and
80% of local
expenditures
(c) Consultants’
    850,000
80%
Services and Audit
(d) Incremental
    160,000
80% 
Operating Costs
(e) Unallocated
    710,000
(3)
Refunding of
    770,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
TOTAL
 21,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "Management Services" means services under management contracts 
for the transmission and dispatch companies under Part E of the Project; and
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures, as approved by 
the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Association, with respect to 
the implementation of the Project by Electrodispetcherizatsia or Electrogadatsema on 
account of office supplies, utilities, office equipment, and salaries of staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a) 
and (2)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Borrower 
has submitted evidence satisfactory to the Association demonstrating that the Borrower 
has privatized, or engaged an international contractor satisfactory to the Association 
to manage until privatization  the following distribution companies: Kvemo Kartli, 
Shida Kartli, Samegrelo and Zemo Svaneti, Imereti, Guria, Mtskhleta-Mtraneti, 
Racha-Lechkhymi/Kvemo-Svaneti and Samtskhe-Javakheti.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services for: (i) individuals costing 
Page  12
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (ii) firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each, and (c) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve reliability and efficiency of electricity 
supply, and improve financial and corporate management in the wholesale electricity 
market.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Metering of Electricity Flows in the 
Transmission Network
Supply and installation of energy meters in the 110- to 500-kV transmission 
network, which would enable metering and recording of active and reactive electricity 
flows in the wholesale electricity market. 
Part B:
Rehabilitation and Upgrade of System Control
Supply and installation of hardware and software (including Remote Terminal 
Units (RTU) and the corresponding local data acquisition equipment at the power plants 
and transmission substations (110- to 500-kV network), System Control Data Acquisition 
(SCADA), and the Energy Management System (EMS) at the National Dispatch Center), to 
enable real time acquisition of operational information from the main facilities, 
analysis and monitoring of the system status at the National Dispatch Center, and 
control and dispatch of the power plants, load centers, and the transmission system. 
Part C:
Rehabilitation and Upgrade of Telecommunications 
Supply and installation of communications equipment, serving the communication 
needs of the metering and dispatch.
Part D:
Rehabilitation of Selected Transmission Substations
Rehabilitation of selected equipment at the Zestafoni transmission substation. 
Part E:
Management Contracts for the Wholesale Electricity Market and the 
Transmission and Dispatch Companies
Provision of services to manage the operations of (i) the Wholesale Electricity 
Market, and (ii) the transmission and dispatch companies.
Part F:
Consultant Services for Project Implementation
Provision of engineering, procurement, project management
services for 
engineering design, procurement and project implementation; consultants’ services 
relating to electricity sector debt restructuring, for preparation of a transmission 
system environmental action plan, and for auditing the companies’ and project 
financial statements and operating costs for PSO.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for goods under Parts B and C of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting 
Spare parts which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment and costing less than $200,000 equivalent in the aggregate 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  14
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B of this Schedule, the first two contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I, Part C.1, and each contract awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I, Part C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services, including the services of an independent private sector 
service provider under any Management Contract, shall be procured in accordance with: 
(a) the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project audits may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  15
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Not later than ninety (90) days before the beginning of each calendar year 
during the execution of the Project, the Borrower, through PSO, shall:
(ii)
prepare and furnish to the Association a proposed annual work 
program and budget for the implementation of the Project during 
such year;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to review said 
proposed annual work program and Budget and exchange views with 
the Borrower; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out or cause to be carried out said annual work 
program and budget, as approved by the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, not later than 30 days after the 
end of each quarter, a quarterly progress report, in a format satisfactory to the 
Association, outlining progress made in the implementation of the Project, as well as 
the problems encountered and how they are being addressed.
3.
The Borrower, through MOFE and PSO, in cooperation with the Association, shall: 
(a) carry out a mid-term review of the Project, no later than June 30, 2003, to 
evaluate the progress of the Project and to determine if there is a need for any 
revisions in the Project planning; and (b) following the mid-term review, act promptly 
and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association within 60 days after the end of each calendar year a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by 120 days after the end of each calendar 
year, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
Page  16
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
view on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal terms and 
conditions:
1.
The Sub-borrower shall repay to the Borrower the aggregate amount of the 
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, from time to time, for 
carrying out the Project (the Subsidiary Loan) over a period not to exceed twenty (20) 
years, including a grace period of five (5) years.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in United States dollars and repaid to 
the Borrower, at least semi-annually, in dollars or lari, at the official rate of 
exchange as determined by the National Bank of Georgia on the respective dates on 
which the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan are repaid by the Sub-borrower.
3.
The Sub-borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a semiannual variable rate equal 
to the applicable rate for IBRD currency pool loans.
4.
The Sub-borrower shall pay to the Borrower a portion of the applicable 
commitment charges payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, allocable to the part 
of the proceeds of the Credit relent but not withdrawn by the Sub-borrower.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of the EG Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000; and (ii) in respect of the ED Special Account, an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  17
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the said Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
Page  18
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
