                                                                                                   97316
Georgia: Improving Electricity Reliability                                               September 16, 2010




 POWER SUPPLY

 Georgia: Improving Electricity Reliability




Overview
The power sector in Georgia faced a catastrophic collapse in the early 1990s. With support
from the International Development Association (IDA) in the Electricity Market Support Project,
                            moll
the government has transformed      the power sector into a financially viable, modernized, and
functioning sector which delivers an almost uninterrupted power supply to its customers. The
improved power system reliability has benefitted every citizen and household, and public and
private entities, especially the service, industrial and productive sectors.




Challenge
Georgia’s power sector faced multiple challenges after the
                                                                   More Results
collapse of the Soviet Union, since it had been a part of the
centralized power system. At that time, no customer had

                                                                   1.7%
uninterrupted power, there were daily blackouts and
brownouts, the capital had a scheduled power supply, and
several rural areas had no power for months. Power sector
assets were dilapidated and theft of electricity and corruption    The percent of reduced technical
                                                                   losses in the power system in
was rampant. Due to lack of financial discipline in the sector,    2009.
only a fraction of fees paid by the customers was collected,
resulting in a massive debt accumulation by the sector
companies, making them unable to import needed power for
the country from neighboring country systems, which in turn
led to more power shortages.                                       $27
Approach                                                           million
                                                                   The amount of IDA credit
The Electricity Market Support Project (EMSP) was designed         provided in 2001. In 2004, an
to tackle a wide range of sector challenges, including             IDA supplemental credit of $9.1
                                                                   million was provided.
structural, financial, legal, technical, and policy reforms.
Through concerted effort by the International Development
Association (IDA) and other donor organizations, the project

                                                                   $300
has helped the government to unbundle, de-monopolize,
commercialize, and privatize the sector. The debt issues
have also been addressed by other donor’s support. An
Electricity law was adopted which established a power sector
regulator and provided a basis for an electricity tariff
increase to a cost-recovery level. Privatization has also been
                                                                   million
launched to enable the better-equipped private sector to own        The total expense for the
                                                                    Black Sea Transmission Line
and operate the generation and distribution assets. Finally,        Project, which will increase
the EMSP has invested in the rehabilitation and upgrading of        power supply for Georgia and
                                                                    Turkey.
critical elements of the power grid.
Results

By investing in the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition       MORE INFORMATION
System (SCADA) and a management contract for the                     Electricity Market Support
national power transmission company, the EMSP has helped             Project (2001-2010) 
to turn the power sector into a viable sector and achieved
                                                                     Ministry of Energy of Georgia
four specific outcomes:
                                                                     (Responsible Agency) 

                                                                     Georgian State Electrosystem
       Improved power system reliability, with no registered
                                                                     (Beneficiary) 
       total blackouts during 2006 – 2009.

       Reduced technical losses in the power system from
       6.6 percent in 2004 to 1.7 % in 2009.                       PARTNERS

                                                                     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau,
       Increased collection rate for transmission services           KfW 
       from 22.3 % in 2004 to 100 percent in 2009.
                                                                     European Bank for
                                                                     Reconstruction and
       Re-adjusted power sector debt, through financial              Development (EBRD)
       rehabilitation, bankruptcy protection, and liquidation of
       bankrupt companies.                                           USAID 


All of the above provided the foundation to make Georgia’s
power sector sustainable and financially viable.

Partners

There was a strong partnership among all development agencies involved in the power sector.
IDA helped to coordinate donor activities and harmonize the efforts. The German government-
owned Development Bank (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, KfW) and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) provided parallel financing of $12 million and $1
million respectively. The government of Georgia also provided $17 million. In addition, KfW and
the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) funded various technical assistance
activities. IDA, together with USAID, KfW and EBRD, provided policy advice to the government
and supported sector reforms.

Toward the Future

EMSP was followed by a major transmission system expansion project, the Black Sea
Transmission Line Project. This project, in the amount of about $300 million, has been jointly
funded by EBRD, the European Investment Bank (EIB), and KfW and will increase the
transmission connection capacity between Georgia and Turkey. This expansion will
substantially increase Georgia’s power export and transit capacity. In addition, potential donors
have considered a second phase of the SCADA upgrade. Considering the outstanding
transformation of the power sector in Georgia, IDA and the government of Georgia have
agreed to publish a book documenting the reforms’ success and drawing lessons learned.

Voices

The project has helped improve reliability of electricity supply to the entire country.
Beneficiaries include every citizen and household, and public and private entities, especially the
service, industrial and productive sectors.
