Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15810
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2974-PH)
June 25, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Philippine Pesos (P)
USS I .00     =     P 16 ( 1984)
=     P 27 (1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)   =  3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kcm) = 0.62 miles (nii)
I hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters (sq m) or 2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMP        =     Community Mortgage Program
GAAP       =     Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GSIS       =     Government Social Insurance System
HDMF       =     Home Development Mutual Fund
HFC        =     Home Finance Corporation (later called HIGC)
HIGC       =     Housing Investment Guarantee Corporation
HLRB       =     Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board
HSRC       =     Human Settlements Regulatory Commission
LRA        =     Land Registry Authority
LRB        =     Land Registry Board
NHA        =     National Housing Authority
NHC        =     National Housing Corporation
NHMFC   =        National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
SSS        =     Social Security System
UHLP       =     Unified Home Lending Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 25, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Housing Sector Project (Loan 2974-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Philippines Housing Sector project (Loan
2974-PH, approved in FY88) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part 11
contributed by the Borrower. The loan for US$160.0 million equivalent was approved in June 1988 and
closed in April 1993, fourteen months ahead of schedule. About US$34.7 million was canceled. The
project was cofinanced by the Japanese Grant Fund.
While the four previous housing loans focused on direct housing production, this project was the
first one aiming at institutional and policy reforms. Its specific objectives were to: (i) streamline the
institutional framework (through elimination of functional duplications, establishment of operational links
between the National Housing Authority (NHA) and the National Home Mortgage Finance corporation
(NHMFC), and strengthened financial viability for these agencies); (ii) improve efficiency in the use of
public resources (through appropriate interest and spread policies, reduced subsidies, improved collections,
and foreclosure enforcement); (iii) redirect new housing stock to lower income groups; (iv) facilitate greater
prudence in financial and risk management; (v) stimulate the domestic economy and generate employment;
and (vi) assist the construction industry by removing constraints on small contractors. The project
comprised: (i) an adjustment component of US$75 million to be disbursed against the implementation of
the agreed sector reforms; (ii) an investment component of US$80 million to support a time slice of the
NHMFC's mortgage purchase program for low cost units built by NHA and private developers; and (iii) a
technical assistance component of US$5 million for training, automation of selected management systems,
and studies required to implement sectoral reforms.
Most of the project's sector adjustment objectives were met, and a substantial amount of
institutional strengthening occurred under the technical assistance component. The streamlining of
institutions reduced the total number of public housing agencies from ten to four, operational links were
established between NHMFC and NHA, and loans were made at rates linked to NHMFC's cost of funds
plus a spread. Consequently, the regressive interest rate structure was eliminated with the charging of lower
rates on smaller loans, which improved targeting lower income groups, and reduced the level of subsidies to
about 30 percent.
However, the NHMFC's failure to become a viable housing finance institution led to the eventual
partial cancellation of the loan: NHMFC's collection performance stayed about the same (61 percent in
1994) and, in spite of a positive spread of 2 percent, NHMFC became insolvent. Regulatory oversight by
the Central Bank had little effective impact. And only 2 years after loan approval, Government
commitment was fading: a law issued in 1990 called for renewed guarantees on most mortgages and
additional interest rate subsidies. Furthermore, the NHMFC's 1993 "Rehabilitation Plan" had little in
common with the Bank's recommendations, reflecting the government's interest in mobilizing funds rather
than fundamental policy reforms. This backtracking led the Bank to cancel the balance of the loan. The
technical assistance component was, however, largely completed under the Japanese Grant Fund financing;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



in particular, the land survey and titling systems were automated especially for use by small contractors.
For these reasons, project outcome is rated as only marginally satisfactory and its institutional
development as moderate. Sustainability, however, is rated as unlikely because the goal of establishing
NHMFC as a viable agency was never achieved and key aspects of sector policy reform, such as voluntary
membership in the pension fund, were reversed. Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. These ratings
are in line with the substance of the PCR.
The most important lesson is the need to realistically assess Government commitment to sector
reform in an environment with high turnover of key actors and changing political priorities. Government
ownership of the project could have been stronger if political and congressional bodies as well as critical
regulatory agencies had been involved in project preparation.
No audit is planned.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2974-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no.
Preface ............................................ i
Evaluation Summary .........
Part 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity .............................................   1
2.   Background  .          ..............................................   1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                                        2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                           5
5. Project Implementation.                                                                    6
6. Project Results .11
7. Project Sustainability .13
8. Bank Performance .16
9. Borrower Performance .19
10. Project Documentation and Data .20
Part 11: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ................. 21
Part HII: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ..................................  41
1. Related Bank Loans .41
2. Project Timetable .42
3. Loan Disbursements .42
4.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .43
5. Project Costs and Project Financing .44
6. Status of Legal Covenants .45
7. Bank Resources .46
8.   Action Plan: National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation .47
1 This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2974-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Housing Sector Project in the Philippines,
for which Loan 2974-PH in the amount of USS 160.0 million equivalent was approved on June 24, 1988.
The loan agreement was signed on September 1, 1988, and the loan became effective on November 30,
1988. The original closing date for the loan was June 30, 1994, but disbursements were suspended on
December 31, 1992, and the undisbursed portion of the loan, USS 34.74 million equivalent, was canceled
on April 28, 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division (EA1IN) of Country
Department I of the East Asia and Pacific Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (Part II). On November 7, 1995, the Bank sent the
Government of the Philippines Parts I and III requesting the comments of interested parties by December
15, but no reply was received.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department I of
the East Asia and Pacific Region (EAIIN), and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the Borrower's own records, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2974-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.      The broad objective of the project was to support the development of an equitable and viable
system of housing production and finance. Such a system would eventually be self-sustaining and would
include an increasing degree of privatization.
2.       The specific project objectives included: (a) streamlining the institutional framework
(elimination of functional duplications, establishment of a programmatic link between NHA and NHMFC,
and strengthened financial positions for these agencies); (b) improving efficiency in the use of public
resources (more appropriate interest rate and spread policies, reduced subsidies, improved pricing, sales,
collections, and sanctions enforcement); (c) redirecting new housing stock to lower income groups; (d)
facilitating greater prudence in financial and risk management; (e) stimulating the domestic economy and
boosting employment; and (f) assisting the construction industry.
3.       The project aimed to support the Government's sectoral reform program as well as finance a
portion of the five year investment program from 1988-1992. The project comprised: (a) an adjustment
component (US$75 million) to support construction activities through import assistance for building
materials; (b) an investment component (USS80 million) to support a time slice of NHMFC's mortgage
purchase program for low cost units built by NHA and private developers; and (c) a technical assistance
component (US$5 million) for training, equipment and studies required to implement sectoral reforms
and to resolve anticipated bottlenecks in the construction industry.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.       Most of the project's restructuring and divestiture objectives were met, and a substantial
amount of institutional strengthening occurred under the TA component. However, actions by NHMFC
contrary to proiect obiectives constituted a critical deficiency, and the loan was suspended at the end of
1992 and canceled in early 1993 with $35 million undisbursed, representing about 44% of the investment
component.
5.       More specifically, objective by objective:
(a)       Streamlining the institutional framework: Functional duplications among agencies and
competition with the private sector were substantively eliminated with the eventual
divestiture of the five corporations, and the total number of public shelter agencies dropped
from ten to four. Streamlining resulted in lower public expenditures for activities which
the private sector was capable of performing and thus a measure of improved efficiency



- iii -
in the use of public resources. This portion of the project's objectives was largely
accomplished.
To reduce functional duplications between NHA and NHMFC, programmatic operational
links were established with NHA selling mortgages to NHMFC. HIGC completed the
study of privatization, but no follow-up has occurred, and its guarantee scheme both on
mortgages and construction finance continues. One reform was reversed: HDMF's move
to becoming a voluntary, and thus theoretically "private" savings scheme was reversed in
1993, and the "Pag-IBIG" contribution is again mandatory.
(b)       Improving efficiency in the use of public resources: At the outset, the prevailing level of
subsidy arising from NHA's compounded leakage from weak pricing, low sales and
collections was about 64% on residential units and 82% on commercial and industrial
units. Subsequent to implementing new arrangements, compounded subsidies dropped to
about 26% in 1991, and then settled at about 30% at the time of project cancellation.
However, collection performance, per se, improved only marginally from the approximate
60% level ar the start to peak at 74% in 1991 and then decline back to 69% at the time of
loan cancellation (and further to 61% by mid-1994). Though 30-40% subsidy from non-
payment remains insufficient for sustainable operations, and thus resulted in the
cancellation of the loan, it should be acknowledged that subsidies were effectively cut in
half under the new structure, and their transparency somewhat improved.
With regard to achieving more appropriate interest rates and spread policies, the regressive
interest rate structure of the housing finance system was eliminated, and a structure put in
place which delivered lower rates to lower income households, and higher rates to the
better off, ranging up to essentially market rates for largest loans to highest income groups.
The NHMFC developed an appropriate adjustable rate mortgage policy in 1989, which
matched mortgage terms to funding sources and eliminated previous interest rate risk and
term match problems. Its negative spread was terminated, and a 200 basis point (2%)
margin established on new loans. Had loan recovery rates been within a normal range,
this spread would likely have been sufficient to allow NHMFC to earn a profit. However,
the 2% margin could not compensate for a 30% default rate.
The 20% capital subsidy scheme established under the UHLP in 1988 for households at
or below the 30th percentile improved both the targeting and budgetary predictability of
subsidies.  However, passage of the "Abot Kaya Pabahay" Law  in January, 1990
introduced a more complex, and in the Bank's view, risky subsidy structure with graduated
payments (paras. 30-31) which was to be offered as an alternative to the least financially
sophisticated borrowers in the lowest income groups. Thus, the final picture on subsidy
is mixed. While overall levels of subsidy appear to have been significantly reduced, and
some improvements occurred initially in their targeting and transparency, later events
occurred which complicated subsidies and made them more difficult to assess.
(c)       Redirecting new housing stock to lower income groups: Both public sector financing and
private sector production have moved down-market under the UHLP and the new
Community Mortgage Program, which was introduced in 1989 and which provides loans
to community groups for local projects.



- iv -
Public production for the top half of the income curve was initially eliminated, and NHA
focused almost exclusively on the lower half of the income curve, except for units
providing agreed levels of social mix. However, under new leadership in the early 1990s
the Authority began to develop completed medium-rise units affordable to more middle-
income families.
(d)        Facilitating greater prudence in financial and risk management: By elimination of HIGC's
insurance, a degree of increased prudence occurred at the outset, followed by intensive
technical assistance co NHMFC in 1990 to develop a proper loan classification system, and
subsequent buildup of loan loss provisions from  1989-1992.  HUDCC  successfully
developed monitoring indicators and a quarterly reporting system  that revealed the
Corporation's mounting problems. NHMFC is again insolvent, in spite of three layers of
financial oversight (its own Board, the governrnent auditor, and the Central Bank). Clearly
while significant steps were taken to achieve this objective, the ultimate purpose of such
prudence and oversight was not accomplished. Since this was a central objective of the
project, the loan was canceled when it became clear that it would not be achieved.
(e)        Stimulating the domestic economv and boosting emplovment: Though no detailed analysis
was carried out at completion, it is reasonable to assume that the rapid expansion by
NHMFC and far larger total investment in housing than anticipated at appraisal (resulting
in a total portfolio of about P25 billion (approximately SI billion) at the end of 1993,
compared with PIO billion (approximately S400 million) estimated at appraisal) resulted
in significantly greater economic stimulation and job creation than projected.
(f)        Assisting the construction industrv:  The study of key bottlenecks to small (housing)
contractors was completed in June 1989, financed under the Bank-financed Rural Roads
Project. One major obstruction identified was the exceptionally slow processing of survey
and titling by the Land Registry Board (LRB) and the Land Registry Authority (LRA),
leading to the inclusion under the technical assistance component of a project to automate
key aspects of the system. This was completed satisfactorily in 1993.
Sustainability
6.       Selected aspects of the institutional reform under the adjustment component of the loan are
likely to be sustainable, such as the divestitures of functions competing with the private sector and the
streamlining of the sectoral institutional structure, as are many of the technical accomplishments of
agencies in the housing sector. The goal of reestablishing NHMFC as a viable public housing finance
agency was never achieved, and remains the primary failure of the proiect which led to the cancellation
of the loan balance. Some aspects of policy reform have eroded, and the drive for financial viability and
a transparent subsidy structure seem to have been abandoned by the new administration that took over
in 1992.
7.           However, as long as housing finance remains in the public domain, it appears unlikely that
the proiect's unmet goals might yet be achieved. Since the Bank's loan cancellation in 1993, NHMFC
initiated certain actions contrary to project objectives, including the: (i) reversal of loss reserves, which
triggered an adverse opinion by the auditor; (ii) planned issuance of mortgage-back bonds, which would
require subsidized funds; and (iii) possibility of bond financing, which would expose NHMFC to an asset-
liability maturity mismatch.



- v -
8.       A further constraint to project sustainability concerns a number of actions indicating that
housing sector officials believed that sector problems were predominantly due to inadequate funding rather
than to inappropriate policies and incentives. Examples of this include the reintroduction of mandatory
contributions to HDMF and the reintroduction of partial HIGC guarantees for pension fund loans. A
further example involves legislation prepared in October 1994 that sought to dramatically increase central
government authorizations and budget outlays for housing by (1) supporting major social housing
programs; (2) recapitalizing NHMFC for the third time; and (3) making permanent a fund for interest
rate and mortgage guarantee subsidies. These increases in funding and subsidies would reduce the
pressure for more fundamental reform, entrenching the current system of publicly dominated housing
finance.
9.       The key question was whether such extensive and often opaque subsidies would be needed if
the private sector were used to manage the housing finance system in a more businesslike manner, with
the Government's role restricted to the provision of direct, targeted, transparent subsidies.  More
disciplined management of loan schemes would substantially reduce the amount of funding lost to
untargetted support of non-performing loans without regard to the income group receiving such support.
10.      A further major barrier to an effective public mortgage finance system in the Philippines is the
lack of political will among public housing finance agencies to bill and collect mortgage loans. Partly
as a result, an entrenched non-payment culture has taken hold, which is not confined to the lower-income
groups who have been the targets of political patronage programs over several decades.
11.      The fundamental question remains whether private banks could achieve a more sustainable level
of loan recovery if given the opportunity. NHMFC's new administration attributed its poor collections
not only to legal impediments, but also to the relative uncreditworthiness of the borrowers approved by
the preceding administration.  Affordability analyses carried out during the project life, however,
concluded that households were not devoting an undue share of income to housing expenditures.
12.      Despite these reversals and impediments to reform, forces outside the housing sector could yet
generate fundamental change in the housing finance system. Two forces moved the system closer to
reform at the end of 1994 than it has been in the past: macroeconomic stability and intemational
competition
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.      Political Considerations.  The most important lesson to gain from  this project was to
acknowledge the difficulty of assessing the political will for reform, which is critical to the success of
adjustment operations and to sustaining viable financial institutions. The change of political actors and
changing political priorities made such assessment all the more difficult, and it remains unclear what
further assurances might have been secured or actions taken which would have enhanced the project's
chances of success. However, laying a better groundwork in the form of collaborative studies with
political and congressional bodies would have yielded a firmer basis on which to make the difficult
judgements called for.
14.      Regulatory Considerations.  Project preparation did not adequately involve the critical
regulatory agencies, i.e., the government auditor and the Central Bank Supervision and Examination
authority.  Such involvement might have subjected NHMFC  (and other non-depository financial
institutions) to inspections earlier, and alerted the Bank and regulators to NHMFC's unorthodox



- vi -
accounting practices. Greater awareness of these issues during preparation might have enhanced the
prospects of success, although adverse opinions and Central Bank inspections do not seem to have led
to change.
15.      Earlier cooperation and strengthening of government's own oversight and regulatory
instruments would have eased pressures on the Bank to play these roles, and helped build regulatory
capacity within the Government. Advancing the dialogue about issues of transparency and accountability
might also have led to clearer understandings and agreements at appraisal regarding essential changes in
accounting practices, which did not occur until mid-1991 when implementing these changes was indeed
painful for NHMFC. It is doubtful, however, that it would have altered the final outcome of the project.
16.      Private Auditor. The project would have benefitted from using a private auditor to review the
financial statement of NHFMC. Although this was not Bank practice at the time and the quality of
government audits improved over time, using a private auditor familiar with GAAP accounting for banks
and financial institutions would have identified the critical accounting issues at an earlier stage.
17.      Private Sector Involvement. Providing apex loans through the Central Bank to the commercial
banks might have proved a better vehicle for increasing private sector involvement in the housing sector.
Through careful design and risk sharing, such an approach might well ultimately reduce the level of total
government subsidy, and improve the targeting and transparency of support to lower income groups.
Exploring this possibility is one of the objectives of the Bank's continuing dialogue and TA in this sector.






PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2974-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.         Project Identitv
Project Name          Housing Sector Project
Loan Number           Loan 2974-PH
RVP Unit               East Asia and Pacific
Country               Philippines
Sector                 Urban Development
Sub-sector            Housing
2.         Background
2.1        The Philippines Housing Sector Project (Loan 2974-PH) was the first loan to the sector to
focus on the institutional framework and policy, including financial policy. Four previous housing loans
focused on direct housing production, and particularly on developing replicable, lower-cost housing
solutions like slum upgrading and serviced sites, executed primarily by the National Housing Authority
(NHA), a public housing agency. This loan addressed broader structural problems in the sector through
an adjustment component, and focused on the main housing finance institution, the National Home
Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC), for the mortgage investment component.
2.2        NHMFC was formed in 1979 to purchase mortgages from originators and provide liquidity
to the sector. The NHMFC set mortgage terms for originators -- government and private banks -- whose
role would have been more accurately described as administrative functionaries rather than as independent
mortgage banks. In the early 1980's it was expected that once NHMFC was fully operational in the
primary market, it would eventually become a U.S.-style secondary-mortgage-market institution,
purchasing and securitizing mortgages and integrating the housing finance system into the broader capital
market. This however, could not occur before a successful primary market was established.
2.3        In addition to NHMFC and NHA, three national pension funds have been key players in
the housing sector. At the time of project design, 1984-1986, two of these pension funds -- the Social
Security System (SSS) and the Government Social Insurance System (GSIS) -- built housing units and
offered mortgage finance to their members. The third, the Home Development Mutual Fund (HDMF),
was the main source of funding for NHMFC's mortgage program. However, this led to a regressive
subsidy with HDMF's predominantly low-income contributors financing NHMFC's predominantly high-



income borrowers, at below-market rates. Nearly 70% of members fell in the bottom half of the income
curve, with only 5% of NHMFC mortgages approved in this group. Meanwhile, NHA, government's
sole low-income producer depended on foreign loans (predominantly the Bank) and when economic
difficulties forced budgetary cuts, these low-income operations were severely curtailed, while those of
NHMFC and the pension funds faced relatively modest reductions. NHA had never tapped any of the
three pension and forced savings funds for financing.
2.4        NHMFC's spread between its fixed-rate mortgage lending rates and its costs was initially
positive, with long-term, low rate mortgages funded by long-term, low rate (below-market) borrowings
from HDMF's forced savings fund earmarked for housing. However, pressures to expand brought
NHMFC into the capital market with shorter-term borrowings at higher rates. As yields rose, the
Corporation's spread turned negative in the early 1980's. These years saw the worst inflation the
Philippines faced in a decade, with inflation nudging 50% in 1984. Correspondingly high debt costs,
combined with long-term, below-market fixed-rate mortgages, lack of sound financial planning, liberal
loan terms, and a low loan collection rate of around 60% -- had pushed NHMFC into insolvency by
1985.
2.5        Technically, the "cash flow" guarantee provided by the public Housing Investment and
Guaranty Corporation (HIGC) should have prevented this failure. However, the guarantee proved
inoperative, with HIGC refusing to pay for defaults on large volumes of non-performing loans due to
deficiencies in mortgage documentation. NHMFC in turn, withheld payment of insurance premiums to
HIGC. As a result, neither agency took action on foreclosures, and sanctions for non-payment remained
unenforced. Large sums began to build on both balance sheets as reciprocal payments were withheld until
the dispute could be resolved.  HIGC held no insurance fund and, beyond its own fairly low
capitalization, would have been unable to meet the substantial obligations of a large non-performing
portfolio.
2.6        Other problems plagued the sector. Recovery of direct costs (net of interest rate subsidies)
was universally low by all direct builders and lenders including the social security system and NHA. The
NHA, which produced and financed housing for the poor, was able to recover from beneficiaries only
about 36% of its costs on residential projects and 18% on commercial/industrial (CI) projects, due to
compounded losses from inappropriate pricing, low sales, and weak collections. Expected profits from
the sale of Cl units priced above cost was expected to cross-subsidize lower prices on residential units.
Economic recession depressed the market for such units, which remained unsold while the subsidized
residential units were snapped up. Poor coordination between these and other agencies plagued the
sector. Among NHMFC, NHA, the National Housing Corporation (NHC), the pension funds (SSS,
GSIS, and HDMF), and the Home Finance Corporation (HFC, and later renamed the Housing Investment
Guarantee Corporation, HIGC) there was significant functional duplication, with most agencies building
and financing housing for different or overlapping groups of beneficiaries. One manifestation of this
duplication was a regressive mortgage interest-rate structure: NHA provided mortgage finance for lower-
income borrowers at 12%, the pension funds for their middle-income members at 6%, and NHMFC for
the better-off at 9%.
3.         Proiect Obiectives and Descriotion
3.1        The project was appraised in August, 1987, following passage of EO 90 in late 1986,
negotiated nine months later in May, 1988, and approved by the Bank's Board in June, 1988. The



objectives listed in the SAR and agreed upon in the Loan Agreement included:
(a)   streamlining the institutional framework, including elimination of functional duplications
between public agencies and competition with the private sector, establishment of
progranmmatic operational links between NHA and NHMFC, improved financial viability
for these agencies, and greater specialization;
(b)  improving efficiencv in the use of public resources, e.g. more appropriate interest rate and
spread policies, reduced subsidies with better transparency and targeting of those subsidies
on the poor, improved cost recovery, and public sector withdrawal from direct production
of units affordable to the upper half of the income curve, as well as from construction
insurance;
(c)   redirecting new housing stock to lower income groups through both redirection of the
housing finance system (and thus private production) to low and middle income households
between about the 40th and 80th percenriles, and through greater concentration by NHA on
production of new stock as opposed to resettlement;
(d)   facilitating greater prudence in financial and risk management and strengthening of
HUDCC's sectoral monitoring capacity;
(e)   stimulating the domestic economy and boosting emplovment; and
(f)   assisting the construction industry by identifying and addressing key bottlenecks obstructing
the recovery of small housing contractors.
3.2        To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of three parts: (i) an adjustment
component; (ii) an investment component, and; (iii) technical assistance.  The project was clearly
ambitious, tackling for the first time many of the sector's broader key issues, after four production-
oriented loans to NHA. The loan totalled $160 million. The adjustment component called for the
disbursement of S75 million of general budgetary support, against a positive list comprising imported
construction materials. This disbursement was tied to the passage and implementation of the agreed
sectoral reforms under EO 90. The investment component provided $80 million to NHMFC to purchase
mortgages from NHA and from the private sector -- funded units would be for lower income borrowers
below a stipulated percentile of the income curve. The third component provided technical assistance
totalling $5 million to NHA, NHMFC, and other agencies for studies of policy, privatization and legal
obstructions to foreclosure, automation of selected systems, financial management training and TA, and
other actions needed to achieve sectoral reforms and reduce or remove key bottlenecks.
3.3        The adjustment component called for termination of a number of public corporations, and
the rationalization of functions which would remain public. Conditionality for the disbursement of this
component was tied to reforms agreed to before loan effectiveness and made public in EQ 90, as well
as under the Sector Policy Statement and Action Plan, and individual Policy Statements and Action Plans
for two of the remaining three agencies (NHMFC and NHA), formally adopted by their respective Boards
of Directors and approved by Government.
3.4        The investment component's success hinged on NHMFC, which was the main recipient of
investment funds and the administrator of the new UHLP. Since NHMFC's insolvency in 1985 was due



- 4 -
partly to its weak loan recovery performance, which in turn was attributed to NHMFC's reliance on
HIGC's cashflow guarantee, this guarantee was eliminated under EO 90. This move was intended to
encourage prudent management since NHhlFC would be responsible for covering its own losses, which,
if incurred, would be transparent.
3.5         By itself, the shift from HIGC guarantees to self-insurance appeared sensible. For the first
time, NHMFC had an incentive to be financially prudent since its safety net was removed. But shifting
the cost of failure from HIGC to NHMFC represented only an initial step. The fundamentals of
NHMFC's business also needed improvement.
3.6         The Bank and the government agreed to monitor more closely a number of crucial
indicators: interest rate spreads, mortgage payment collection levels, debt-equity ratio, level of loss
provisions, etc..  Key among these was NHMFC's collection levels (including realizations from
liquidations) which were expected to rise from around 60% during project preparation to 85% in 1989,
and to 95% in later years, as mortgage servicing improvements occurred and foreclosures and resales
took place.
3.7         However, NHMFC faced powerful political incentives that overwhelmed the incentives
intended to yield reform.  Mortgage purchases and extension of credit, especially to lower-income
families who comprise the vast bulk of the Philippine population, represent politically popular activities,
and pressures are consequently intense for rapid credit expansion in years leading up to elections. These
incentives caused NHMFC to emphasize asset growth over portfolio management, and to stop short of
final liquidation, eroding the Corporation's reputation as a serious financial institution, and resulting in
continued low collection levels. Second, legal barriers to prompt foreclosure which were identified at
appraisal, and studied under the project, continued to impede NHMFC's foreclosure efforts.
3.8         Two laws, the Right of Redemption and the Maceda Law delay liquidation or increase a
lender's loss in the case of default, reducing both the lender's incentive to foreclose and pressure on the
borrower to make payments. The Right of Redemption applies to mortgages and allows a borrower to
stay in possession for a year after formal foreclosure, which itself is not triggered until the loan is 8
mnonths delinquent. The Maceda law applies to "contracts to sell," (effectively rental-purchase agreements
under which a lender retains title until the borrower's last payment). This second law requires that a
defaulted borrower be reimbursed 50% of payments made in the previous two years. Both laws aggravate
expected losses, reducing the lender's incentive to foreclose and softening the threat to the borrower of
foreclosure. It is noteworthy that these laws, which apply equally to public and private mortgages, have
not undermined private banks' mortgage collection and foreclosure/liquidation efforts. The reason is that
under another Philippine law, when an asset is foreclosed and sold by a lender, the lender may retain all
proceeds of the sale. Thus, any equity built up by the borrower is lost. In contexts of high inflation and
relatively low interest rates, collateral value often exceeds the outstanding loan amount, even including
fees, legal costs, and delinquent interest. Most families choose to sell the collateral themselves, rather
than allowing the lender to do so, in order to retain whatever equity may remain after loan payoff.
Private banks thus assured the Bank at appraisal that while the laws were not helpful to lenders, neither
did they represent lethal impediments to viable mortgage lending. For mortgages, which are NHMFC's
preferred instrument, they simply delay liquidation of collateral by perhaps six months beyond what might
otherwise occur. Consequently a study was included in the project to explore means of better balancing
the interests of lender and borrower and prepare drafts of revisions to the laws.



3.9         The project's objectives might have been improved by addressing the legal framework
directly through stronger conditionality, i.e. passage of new laws before Board presentation rather than
a study. This would probably have required an additional year or two. Given the already considerable
complexity of conditionality under the loan, the need for working with key legislators in designing such
changes, and the fact that while creating delay, the laws were not considered serious impediments to
successful mortgage operations by private banks, this task was consciously left to a later time. As noted
above, deficiencies in the legal framework for foreclosure do not seriously impede private banks in
similar efforts and the appraisal mission, following extensive dialogue with private bankers, concluded
that this reform could be deferred to a later phase.
3.10        The project clearly underestimated the extent to which the weak collection performance and
near-absence of previous foreclosure were politically driven imperatives that would survive the Marcos
Administration. Assurances secured at negotiations from sector management and Government of their
serious intent to enforce loan recovery and associated sanctions ultimately proved inadequate. It remains
unclear, however, what further conditions or assurances might have proven effective in this context.
4.          Proiect Design and Organization
4.1         As part of project preparation, which spanned nearly three years, the Bank worked with the
government and the housing agencies to formulate a sector rationalization plan. Elements of the plan
were carried out in late 1986, including the Government's elimination of the Ministry of Human
Settlements (MHS), and implementationof Executive Order 90 (EO 90) in December of that year. These
actions essentially fulfilled the conditionality for the adjustment measures being pursued through the loan.
The main elements of the adjustment efforts were:
(a)  the elimination of public sector competition with private sector input producers (land supply
and building materials) and builders, through liquidation of four corporations (Woodwaste
Development Corp. (WW), Builder's Bricks Development Corp. (BB), the Bliss
Development Corp. (BDC), and the National Housing Corporation (NHC));
(b)   functional separation among the remaining housing sector agencies; and
(c)   establishment of a coordination mechanism through the Housing and Urban Development
Coordinating Council (HUDCC) which replaced the MHS.
4.2         Functional separation of sector responsibilities meant that NHMFC would have primary
control for finance, NHA for production of lower-cost units, and the pension funds for supplying capital
to NHMFC to fund housing for their members. With housing finance concentrated at NHMFC, it was
possible to reform the regressive interest rate structure. Loans were made available at rates linked to
NHMFC's cost of funds plus a spread, initially 9% for the smallest loans, 12% for moderate-sized loans,
and 16% for larger loans. This program, called the Unified Home Lending Program (UHLP), was
structured to serve the lower 90% of the income distribution, with the wealthiest tenth relying on private
commercial banks.
4.3         Executive Order 90 instituted other reforms, as well.  First, NHMFC's then-existing
mortgage portfolio -- known as Folio I, consisting of loans funded by HDMF for its members -- was
transferred to HDMF. *This transfer enabled HDMF to unwind the negative spread by reducing the rate



- 6 -
paid to its depositors, and allowed NHMFC to begin anew. Second, membership in HDMF, which had
been mandatory, was made voluntary, and the three pension funds agreed to fund NHMFC's purchases
of their own members' mortgages through loans to the Corporation secured by the associated member
mortgages. Thus, SSS would fund NHMFC's purchases of mortgages made to private-sector employees;
GSIS would fund purchases of mortgages for public-sector employees, and HDMF would fund NHMFC's
purchases of mortgages made to anyone who chose to be a member of HDMF. Third. NHMFC's loan
repayments from borrowers would no longer be guaranteed by HIGC. NHMFC would directly manage
collections and foreclosure on its portfolio, and "self-insure" against the risk of borrower non-payment
by establishing a proper loan classification system and holding appropriate loss provisions.
4.4        In summary, EO 90 called for the reduction of the number of public housing agencies from
ten to four. Five of the ten, or half, were eliminated (WW, BB, BDC, NHC, and MHS). A sixth,
HDMF, was "privatized" in the sense that its membership would become voluntary rather than
mandatory. A seventh, HIGC, would remain but agreed to terminate land pooling activities, divest the
S&L bank that it held as a subsidiary, and undertake studies of its several remaining functions, with a
view to privatizing or divesting some or all of these functions. Only three agencies would remain as
public institutions: the NHA, which carried out squatter upgrading, and produced serviced sites for the
poorest people, the NHMFC, specializing in mortgage finance, and the Human Settlements Regulatory
Commission (HSRC) which regulated construction by private developers. (The two social security
agencies (SSS and GSIS) were considered beyond the scope of the housing sector review, and were
expected to continue to fund housing through voluntary loans to NHMFC.)
4.5         Assuming successful implementation of these initial reforms to eliminate competition with
the private sector, reduce the public sector presence in the housing industry, and restore confidence in
mortgage instruments under the project, a follow up housing sector loan was expected to be made, which
would begin privatization of mortgage finance (NHMFC) and securitization of what was hoped would
by then be a sound primary portfolio. This second operation, expected to span from about 1995-99
would need to tackle more directly the legal framework in the housing sector which was to be studied
under the present loan (para. 3.8), continue support for rationalization of the tax incentive structure and
guarantees through HIGC's transformation or privatization. and provide further assistance in design of
support (subsidies) for lowest income groups.
4.6         The Bank did consider pushing reform further in this operation by circumventing the public
sector entirely and directing funds under the investment component to private banks through an apex
arrangement with the Central Bank.  However, broad-based reforms of private banks were then
underway, with many being insolvent, and Government was reluctant to initiate any further apex
arrangement. Agreement was therefore reached to postpone these types of actions until the next stage
of reform.
5.         Proiect Irnplementation
5.1        NHMFC. Though implementation in the early years of 1988-1990 focused primarily on
launching construction by private builders and the NHA for subsequent takeout by NHMFC, the
Corporation began mortgage purchases in those years. As a result of both the purchase of NHA's lower-
cost mortgages and some down-market movement by private builders, mortgages under NHMFC's new
portfolio suDported by the Bank were, on average, more affordable to the poor than the mortgages in
Folio I had been. The average Folio I loan had been affordable to a household at the 90th percentile of



-7-
the income distribution. By mid-1990, the average loan was affordable to a household at the 45th
percentile. The shift down-market reflected NHMFC's changed mandate. and the results of both
connecting NHA into pension fund sources via NHMFC and of a gradual increase in construction of
lower-income units by private builders.
5.2        Another contributor to improved targeting under the UHLP was the Community Mortgage
Program (CMP), under which NHMFC lent to communities for poverty-oriented slum-upgrading projects.
Though assisting visibly in the Corporation's shift down-market, CMP mortgages generally lacked
sanctions for non-payment arising from the lack of even simple agreements with individual households.
NHMFC's sole recourse was to seize and sell the land of the entire community -- an action both
administratively and politically impractical. Because of this defect, the Bank never financed most CMP
mortgages despite their attractive poverty orientation.' By December 1993, the auditor reports 46% of
mortgages under this program were in arrears more than a year. The program's poor performance may
be due to a combination of the above defect in sanctions, the graduated payment subsidy introduced under
the Abot Kaya Law, and/or general politicization of the program. Given the very modest sums involved,
it is not likely to be attributable to affordability. It is unfortunate that such a poverty-focused program
could not be made viable.
5 3        Several actions arising in the course of implementation signalled loose practices by NHMFC,
and evidenced its growth orientation. First was that in its desire to improve targeting and initiate its
lower-income links, NHMFC purchased a number of mortgages from NHA which lacked final individual
titles, though they had proper Promissory Notes and other loan documentation. NHA possessed "mother
title" and had submitted subdivision plans to LMB/LRA for approval, survey vetting and title issuance.
The significant backlog of work in these organizations delayed issuance of final individual title. Under
the agreement, NHA would repurchase the mortgages if title was not delivered within two years.
However, two years later, the problem remained largely unresolved as new growth continued to outweigh
portfolio management in NHMFC's resource use. The LMB/LRA TA program was launched during this
period to help resolve the problem.
5.4         Second was that Folio I assets which, under a 1988 Agreement (signed as a condition of loan
processing) were to have been transferred from NHMFC to HDMF, had been removed from NHMFC's
books, but had not yet appeared on HDMF's balance sheet. Deficiencies in loan documentation and
payment records required virtual reconstruction of each account, sometimes necessitating tracing records
back to the original collecting banks, a slow process at best, and considered low priority by both
agencies. Meanwhile, large undistributed collections remained frozen on NHMFC's books, and could
neither be transferred nor taken into income since unsatisfactory portions of Folio I were being rejected
by HDMF and returned to NHMFC as reconciliation continued. Transfer of Folio I was finally largely
complete by the end of 1992, at which time the agencies had resolved 87% of the P4.4 billion Folio I
total.
5.5        In 1990, it came to the Bank's attention that NHMFC had begun double-financing some
mortgage takeouts by using Bank financed mortgages as collateral for loans from the pension funds. A
portion of the resulting liquidity was placed in high-yield Treasury bills. The Bank informally halted
disbursements for six months (from the middle to the end of 1990) while the double financing was
resolved. NHMFC repaid 60% of the pension funds' loans collateralized with Bank mortgages, and
provided new mortgages that qualified under the Bank's agreed terms for the remaining 40%.
A small number of CMP mortgages were individualized for which Bank funding was used.



- 8 -
5.6        In January 1990, Congress passed the Abot Kaya Pabahay (Social Housing) Fund law which
changed policy on guaranty and subsidy schemes enough to make them potentially inconsistent with the
loan agreement. The Bank and the government spent most of 1990 negotiating a resolution that would
utilize the implementing regulations to ensure compatibility between the law and the loan agreement.
5.7         The legislation called for renewed HIGC guarantees on most mortgages and an additional
layer of interest rate subsidies added to the existing capital subsidy on small UHLP mortgages. Bringing
back mortgage guarantees on NHMFC loans would have reversed the 1986 reforms under Executive
Order 90, which attempted to impose financial responsibility on NHMFC. The additional subsidies
consisted of reductions in payments for the first five years of the (typically twenty-five year) mortgage,
during which time payments would be steeply graduated each year.  In the politicized Philippine
environment, the Bank thought that the initial very low payment would become entrenched and a
significant proportion of low income borrowers would not pay the steep annual increases. As a result
of the negotiations with the Bank, by the end of 1990 the government agreed (a) to limit guarantees only
to direct lending by the pension funds (that is, excluding the UHLP and therefore NHMFC's mortgages),
and (b) to make low-income mortgages subject to either the 20%  capital subsidy or the Abot Kaya
graduated subsidy, but not both, and (c) that NHMFC would closely monitor performance on graduated
payments and would maintain adequate loan loss provisions commensurate with the risks undertaken.
Further, the Bank would not finance mortgages subject to such graduated payments. The Community
Mortgage Program was a primary beneficiary of the Abot Kaya subsidy. It's ultimately disappointing
performance is discussed above in para. 5.2.
5.8        By mid-1990, two years after Board approval, as NHMFC began to purchase and service
a growing volume of mortgages, evidence began to mount of weakness in loan recovery rates.
Fundamental business problems underlay the emerging financial crisis.  NHMFC  showed little
improvement in collections, and foreclosed on few delinquent loans. Growth remained the Corporation's
principal focus, since it faced political pressure to support private sector production and because its
success was measured in terms of loan volume, not loan performance. A financial management seminar
took place during that year, financed under the TA component of the loan, and utilizing trainers who had
trained World Bank staff in financial analysis, to try to strengthen the Corporation's understanding of the
issues and improve its control systems.
5.9         To address the emerging problems, in November 1990, the Bank and NHMFC agreed to
an Action Plan, which called for measures to reduce rising receivables, and for increased loss provisions
commensurate with a proper loan classification system. Accounting changes were also needed to conform
to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as called for under the loan Agreement. NHMFC's
accounting methods obscured its deteriorating financial condition. Income was recognized on all loans
regardless of performance, masking losses in 1990 and probably in 1989, and loss provisions were
inaccurately shown as a subset of the capital account. During 1991 the Bank provided technical assistance
to NHMFC to formulate an appropriate provisioning policy, classify the loan portfolio, and identify a
suitable level of loss provisions, both specific and general.
5.10       Following a year during which considerable effort and activity resulted in little net
improvement in loan recovery rates, with consequent further deterioration in NHMFC's financial position,
in November 1991 the Bank officially advised Government of its intention to suspend the loan unless
NHMFC achieved the targets set out in a second, more formal plan initially established for 3 months.
NHMFC argued that significant improvement in collections would require at least another year. The final
Action Plan called for: (i) improvement in collection efficiency from 63% to 80% by December 1992,



-9-
individualization of group ledgers in the Commnunity Mortgage Program, and issuance of titles on NHA
properties; (ii) confirmation of the loss provisioning policy, and increase in provisions to satisfactory
levels; (iii) completion of the transfer of Folio I to HDMF and posting of undistributed collections; (iv)
adoption of a satisfactory income recognition policy; (v) an increase of 2 points (about 0.4%) to
NHMFC's spread; (vi) reversal of income recognized but not received on loans in arrears more than 18
months, phasing in of a 10 month standard by January 1993, and preparation of a plan for addressing
NHMFC's resulting capital deficiency; and, (vii) establishment of full regulatory oversight by the Central
Bank. (See Table 8)
5.11        The primary cause of NHMFC's problems remained its heavy focus on growth, at the
expense of portfolio management. Total assets increased by 61 %, 52 % and 43 % in each of the years
from  1990-1992, and another 49%  in 1993. NHMFC's CEO resigned in April of 1992, following
national elections in 1991. The Corporation thus drifted during a critical, and perhaps pivotal 8 month
period just prior to the change of administration.
5.12        By the end of 1992, it was clear that NHMFC would be unable to meet several crucial
conditions of the 1991 Action Plan. Notably, collections remained at 63% in November, far below the
80% level agreed, and only 14% of loans that should have been in foreclosure actually were, with only
.06% (18 out of 30,000) resolved via redemption, resale or restructuring. Half of all loans over a year
old were in arrears by more than 8 months, and collections on CMP accounts had declined to 56%. Loss
provisions continued to fall short of agreed levels, and the Corporation had a negative net worth estimated
at about P500 million, and was thus seriously capital deficient. These represented substantive breaches
of the project agreement. On December 31, 1992 the Bank suspended the loan and informed Government
of its intention to exercise its right to cancel following the stipulated 30 day period.
5.13        Despite loan suspension, a number of accomplishments took place under the Action Plan.
Transfer of Folio I was brought to 87% completion, though undistributed collections had not been
addressed, and, in fact actually rose from P1.3 to P1.8 billion due to mounting backlogs of unposted
collections on Folio 11. A satisfactory income recognition policy had been adopted, and P398 million
added to loss provisions, doubling provisions from 1.6% to 3.4%, but which still remained below the
levels required by the loan classification exercise carried out in 1991. The Corporation added points and
charges to increase its spread to between 3.0%-3.6% depending on loan size. The Central Bank initiated
full supervisory functions and had completed its first inspection report on the Corporation, and the quaiity
of the auditor's reports had gradually but steadily improved over the years, with adverse opinions having
been rendered for the last several years due to the problems discussed in this report. These achievements
increased the transparency of the Corporation's impending insolvency, but in themselves could not
forestall failure. While NHMFC could defer payments and generate sufficient liquidity to keep its doors
open, without significant improvements in loan recovery rates, it was clear that it would remain inviable.
5.14        The NHMFC's new  CEO, appointed late in 1992 responded in early 1993 with a
"Rehabilitation Plan" to improve its precarious financial position. This plan called for (a) mandated
pension fund contributions to NHMFC; (b) reestablishment of compulsory membership in HDMF; (c)
recapitalization of NHMFC using World Bank and pension fund (SSS/GSIS) loans which would b-
converted to equity; and (d) issuance of mortgage-backed bonds to the public, guaranteed by HIGC and
subsidized by the Abot Kaya fund.
5.15        NHMFC's Rehabilitation Plan had little in common with the Bank's recommendations, Z.,d,
in fact, would have reversed some of the 1988 reforms (i.e., voluntary HDMF membership). The Plan



- 10 -
further eroded the targeting of subsidies on lower-income households and restored some of the pre-1986
problems. To slow NHMFC's supercharged growth, and allow management time to strengthen internal
systems and controls, the Bank had suggested that further pension funding for housing be routed through
commercial banks instead of NHMFC, and that a third recapitalization of NHMFC be deferred until its
viability could be demonstrated. To stem NHMFC's impending hemorrhage of losses. the Bank also
recommended temporarily negotiating a reduced rate on pension fund borrowings until mortgage recovery
rates increased, and fundamental improvements in the primary mortgage market before considering any
secondary market activity.
5.16        The gap between the Bank's recommendations for the sector and NHMFC's own was too
wide to bridge, and following a further three month dialogue with the Corporation, the government and
the pension funds, the Bank canceled the remainder of the loan on April 28, 1993. This cancellation
withdrew funds which NHMFC hoped to use to support the Community Mortgage Program and the
mortgage purchases of self-employed people. Increased lending from the pension funds replaced the
financing that the Bank would have provided, under a "temporary" arrangement waiving the prevailing
restriction that pension funds be used only for member loans.
5.17        Following loan cancellation in 1993, and despite the steady further deterioration of the
portfolio (with collections dropping to 61 % by mid- 1994), the Corporation reversed its loss provisions.
backing out P459 million which was apparently booked to interest income. Probably as a result, losses
for the year which had reached P441 million in 1992, were reduced to only P64 million in 1993.
5.18        NHA. During the early years of implementation (1988-1990) NHA and the private sector
constructed new units for refinancing by NHMFC through mortgage purchases on these units under the
investment component of the loan. There were delays in this first component, due largely to slow land
acquisition.
5.19        As a condition of Board presentation, the government agreed that NHA would restructure
its balance sheet by the end of 1988. This restructuring included the transfer or write-off of P112 million
receivables, and the transfer of an additional P887 million in assets representing schools, clinics, trunk
water and sewer lines, etc. which NHA had built but which belonged within the mandate of to other
agencies. Until transfer occurred, NHA continued to foot the maintenance bills for these facilities without
any commensurate source of cost recovery. Though delayed, these transfers were eventually completed
by mid-1990.
5.20        As part of its revised pricing policy, NHA terminated reliance on cross-subsidy, though it
continued to use differential pricing to realize gains on social mix and Cl units. Expenditures incurred
for activities for which there was no source of cost recovery would be undertaken only through explicit
government subsidies.
5.21        Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance component survived the
cancellation of the loan. Japanese grant funding had been secured, replacing loan funds, with the S5
million originally planned for technical assistance transferred to the mortgage component. The Japanese
Grant Fund consisted of $1.9 million, of which $700,000 remained unspent at cancellation of the project.
At the request of the Government, the Fund was continued to allow completion of institutional
strengthening for a number of sectoral agencies, as well as to help NHMFC address its deficiencies. It
was also used to support ongoing work to assist sector authorities in identifying obstacles to private sector
participation in housing finance.



- 11 -
5.22        Despite implementation delays, a number of useful tasks were completed under the TA
component. Key among these were the following: (i) a pilot automated land titling system at the Land
Registry Authority and the Land Management Board: (ii) automation of several key NHA systems,
including billing & collection (for mortgages which could not be refinanced with NHMFC), lot inventory,
accounting and budget; (iii) a study on privatizing the HIGC; (iv) introduction of geographic information
system (GIS) capabilities at the Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board (HLRB); (v) establishment of
an improved monitoring capacity within HUDCC. dovetailed with the quarterly reports of the individual
sectoral agencies; and, (vi) for NHMFC, a financial management seminar, loan classification and loss
provisioning assistance, assistance in strengthening the corporation's regional presence, and assistance
in strengthening of the CMP (individualization of mortgages), and overall collections. Delays in TA
implementation were generally due to high turnover of local staff in affected agencies, and consequent
setbacks in timetables while new staff were brought up to speed. The quality of some studies and
automation work suffered from inadequate competition, itself a reflection of the prevailing strong
preference by government for local consultants.
5.23        While no future operation is planned for the housing sector at this time, the Bank continues
to provide some technical assistance to Government on housing sector issues which are being financed
by the Japanese Grant Fund. This technical assistance includes policy development work in three areas:
(1) analyzing the incentives associated with subsidies and other housing policies;  (2) identifying
opportunities for a larger private sector role in housing; and (3) reviewing land-use policies, particularly
policies on urban redevelopment, urban-periphery land conversion, and new-town construction. Ongoing
technical assistance is scheduled to end with the closing of the grant on December 31, 1995.
6.          Proiect Results
6.1         Though most of the project's restructuring and divestiture objectives were met, and a
substantial amount of institutional strengthening occurred under the TA component, the NHMFC's
repeated failure constituted a critical deficiency and the loan was suspended at the end of 1992 and
canceled in early 1993 with S35 million undisbursed, representing about 44% of the investment
component.
6.2         More specifically, objective by objective (see para. 3.1):
(a)   Streamlining the institutional framework:  functional duplications among agencies and
competition with the private sector in land stockpiling, high cost housing production, and
building materials production were substantively eliminated with the eventual divestiture of
the five corporations, and the total number of public shelter agencies dropped from ten to
four. Streamlining resulted in lower public expenditures for activities which the private
sector was capable of performing and thus a measure of improved efficiency in the use of
public resources. This portion of the project's objectives was largely accomplished.
To reduce functional duplications between NHA and NHMFC, programmatic operational
links were in fact established with NHA selling mortgages to NHMFC. This measure was
intended to restructure incentives for NHA by providing finance after units were completed,
appropriately priced and sold, rather than as construction proceeded, as under previous
loans.  This goal was also largely accomplished.  HIGC  completed the study of
privatization, but no follow-up has occurred, and its guarantee scheme both on mortgages



- 12 -
and construction finance continues, though Maunlad S&L was divested, and the land scheme
terminated. One reform was reversed: HDMF's move to becoming a voluntary, and thus
theoretically "private" savings scheme was reversed in 1993, and the "Pag-IBIG"
contribution is again mandatory.
(b)   Improving efficiency in the use of public resources: At the outset, the prevailing level of
subsidy arising from NHA's compounded leakage from weak pricing, low sales and
collections was about 64% on residential units and 82% on CI units (para. 2.6). In the first
two years of the project. NHA adopted and generally observed a substantially improved
pricing policy, and, since units financed by NHMFC required formal mortgage
documentation, sales on such units were uniformly completed prior to takeout. Thus
compounded subsidies under the new arrangements dropped to about 26% in 1991 when
NHMFC's collection performance peaked, and then settled at about 30% at the time of
project cancellation. 2 However, collection performance, per se, has improved only
marginally from the approximate 60% level at the start to peak at 74% in 1991 and then
decline back to 69% at the time of loan cancellation (and further to 61% by mid-1994).
Though 30-40% subsidy from non-payment remains insufficient for sustainable operations,
and thus resulted in the cancellation of the loan, it should be acknowledged that subsidies
were effectively cut in half under the new structure, and their transparency somewhat
improved.
With regard to achieving more appropriate interest rates and spread policies, the regressive
interest rate structure of the housing finance system (para. 2.6) was eliminated, and a
structure put in place under the UHLP which delivered lower rates to lower income
households, and higher rates to the better off, ranging up to essentially market rates for
!argest loans to highest income groups. The NHMFC developed an appropriate adjustable
rate mortgage policy in 1989, which matched mortgage terms to funding sources and
eliminated previous interest rate risk and term match problems. Its negative spread was
terminated, and a 200 basis point (2%) margin established on new loans. Had loan
recovery rates been within a normal range, this spread would likely have been sufficient to
allow NHMFC to earn a profit. However, the 2% margin could not compensate for a 30%
default rate.
The 20% capital subsidy scheme established under the UHLP in 1988 for households at or
below the 30th percentile improved both the targeting and budgetary predictability of
subsidies. However, passage of the "Abot Kaya Pabahay" Law in January, 1990 introduced
a more complex, and in the Bank's view, risky subsidy structure with graduated payments
(paras. 5.6 and 5.7) which was to be offered as an alternative to the least financially
sophisticated borrowers in the lowest income groups. Thus, the final picture on subsidy is
mixed. While overall levels of subsidy appear to have been significantly reduced, and some
improvements occurred initially in their targeting and transparency, later events occurred
which complicated subsidies and made them more difficult to assess.
Net of the effects of NHMFC's somewhat below-market interest rates which were estimated at
approximately 340 basis points in 1991.



- 13 -
(c)   Redirecting new housing stock to lower income groups: Both public sector financing and
private sector production have in fact moved down-market under the UHLP and the new
Community Mortgage Program, which was introduced in 1989 and which provides loans
to community groups for local projects.
Public production for the top half of the income curve was initially eliminated with the
termination of NHC and Bliss Development Corporation. NHA focused almost exclusively
on the lower half of the income curve, except for units providing agreed levels of social
mix. However, under new leadership in the early 1990s the Authority began to develop
completed medium-rise units affordable to more middle-income families.
(d)   Facilitating greater prudence in financial and risk management: By elimination of HIGC's
insurance, a degree of increased prudence occurred at the outset, followed by intensive
technical assistance to NHMFC in 1990 to develop a proper loan classification system. and
subsequent buildup of loan loss provisions from  1989-1992.  HUDCC successfully
developed monitoring indicators and a quarterly reporting system that revealed the
Corporation's mounting problems. Regulatory oversight and supervisory functions by the
Central Bank began in 1990 and continued through loan termination, but with little effective
impact. NHMFC is again insolvent, in spite of three layers of financial oversight (its own
Board, the government auditor, and the Central Bank). Clearly while significant steps were
taken to achieve this objective, the ultimate purpose of such prudence and oversight was not
accomplished. Since this was a central objective of the project, the loan was canceled when
it became clear that it would not be achieved.
(e)   Stimulating the domestic economy and boosting emplovment: Though no detailed analysis
was carried out at completion, it is reasonable to assume that the rapid expansion by
NHMFC and far larger total investment in housing than anticipated at appraisal (resulting
in a total portfolio of about P25 billion (approximately SI billion) at the end of 1993,
compared with PlO billion (approximately $400 million) estimated at appraisal) resulted in
significantly greater economic stimulation and job creation than projected.
(f)   Assisting the construction industry:  The study of key bottlenecks to small (housing)
contractors was completed in June 1989, financed under the Bank-financed Rural Roads
Project. One major obstruction identified was the exceptionally slow processing of survey
and titling by the Land Registry Board (LRB) and the Land Registry Authority (LRA),
leading to the inclusion under the technical assistance component of a project to automate
key aspects of the system. This was completed satisfactorily in 1993.
7.          Proiect Sustainability
7.1         Accomplishments and Reversals.  Selected aspects of institutional reform  under the
adjustment component of the loan are likely to be sustainable, such as the divestitures of functions
competing with the private sector and streamlining of the sectoral institutional structure, as are many of
the technical assistance accomplishments with agencies such as LMB/LRA, HLRB, NHA and HUDCC.
Clearly the goal of reestablishing NHMFC as a viable public housing finance agency was never achieved,
and remains the primary failure of the project which led to cancellation of the loan balance. Some aspects
of policy reform have eroded, and the drive for financial viability and a transparent subsidy structure
seem to have been abandoned by the new administration that took over in 1992.



- 14 -
7.2         Questions have been raised as to whether the project's unmet goals might still be achieved
in the future. As long as housing finance remains in the public domain, this appears unlikely. Since the
Bank's loan cancellation in 1993, the government appears to be implementing much of the Rehabilitation
Plan proposed by NHMFC's new leadership in early 1993. As noted in para. 5.17, the bulk of loss
reserves built up from 1989-1992 were reversed at the end of the year, triggering an adverse opinion by
the auditor. The Corporation is developing plans for issuing mortgage-backed bonds, though the bulk
of the underlying mortgage portfolio is of low quality. Abot Kaya funds would be used to bridge the gap
between mortgage payment proceeds and the income investors would demand. Even if prudence were
exercised in selecting only performing loans for securitization, these bonds are likely to require a
relatively high rate to attract funding, in view of the fairly low public perception of NHMFC's portfolio
quality and the widely known legal obstructions to liquidation. Skimming off performing loans would
leave non-performing loans to collateralize NHMFC's pension fund borrowings, eroding the security of
such investments and further weakening the social security system. Securitization of entire portfolio,
including non-performing loans would require significant and probably unaffordable levels of government
subsidy, with untargetted support to virtually anyone who chose to withhold payment to NHMFC, as well
as extreme difficulty in predicting the budgetary impact of such support, since amounts would fluctuate
annually both with payment levels and with the gap between NHMFC's fixed rate mortgages and current
market rates. The bond flotation proposal as discussed with the Bank's team in 1993 would bring the
government full circle back to the very dilemma that bankrupted NHMFC the first time in the early
1980s: long term, fixed-rate assets financed with short-term, variable rate liabilities, with the Government
bridging the gap via subsidies.
7.3         The sector's problems have been characterized by sector officials as predominantly that of
inadequate funding rather than of inappropriate policies or incentives. As a result, in 1993 mandatory
contributions to HDMF of 5%-6% of reported payroll, split between employees and employers were
reintroduced. This action reversed the 1986 reform that made contributions voluntary and is part of the
attempt to repair the sector by directing more funds to it. The reintroduction of partial (80%) HIGC
guarantees for pension fund loans to NHMFC helps explain the relative lack of concern of the social
security funds with the deteriorating performance of the Corporation from 1990-1993, when the Bank
loan was canceled, and their willingness to fill the relatively small comparative gap left by the Bank,
which comprised about 25% of NHMFC's takeouts.
7.4         As of October 1994, government was in the advanced stages of passing legislation that
would dramatically increase central government authorizations and budget outlavs for housing. This
legislation would appropriate around P35 billion over five years for: (1) supporting major social housing
programs, including the Community Mortgage Program  on which recovery rates have proven
exceptionally low (para. 5.2); (2) recapitalizing NHMFC for the third time, with a total increase in
authorized capital from P500 million to P5.5 billion, and that of HIGC from Pi billion to P2.5 billion;
and (3) making permanent the Abot Kaya fund for interest-rate and mortgage guarantee subsidies. The
legislation also would authorize the use of Abot Kaya funds to support the flotation of mortgage-backed
bonds. as discussed above.
7.5         These increases in funding and subsidies would reduce the pressure for more fundamental
reform, entrenching the current system  of publicly dominated housing finance.  With the central
government appropriations, NHA and NHMFC would be guaranteed funding of their major programs.
Private developers, who depend on continued funding of the UHLP as the primary source of finance for
home buyers, would also be assured continued funding. These initiatives are likely to also be welcomed
by the pension funds, since greater government support might ease pressures on them to support housing



- 15 -
through loans which increasingly appear uncollectible, threatening the viability and solvency of the social
security system.
7.6         The key question is whether such extensive and often opaque subsidies would be needed if
the private sector were used to manage the housing finance system in a more businesslike manner, with
government's role restricted to the provision of direct, targeted. transparent subsidies. More disciplined
management of loan schemes would substantially reduce the amount of funding lost to untargetted support
of non-performing loans without regard to the income group receiving such support.
7.7         Even the private banks, which are unable to compete with the UHLP's below-market
mortgage rates, and are thus shut out of the vast bulk of housing finance, have not pushed for reform.
Though government did achieve its objective of moving public mortgage finance down-market, because
of the need to serve pension fund members it continued a role for the public sector in upper income
ranges, and has not continued to move down-market, allowing or encouraging private builders and
bankers to move into middle-income ranges. Private banks now provide all finance for approximately
the top 10% of the market -- that segment not covered by the UHLP -- and use strict underwriting
standards to insure the creditworthiness of borrowers. Since they lack access to long-term, fixed rate
funds, private banks offer only adjustable-rate loans. Private banks have been reluctant to underwrite
loans smaller than P500,000 (the UHLP funds loans up to P375,000) even though short term market
interest races have fallen below 16%, the UHLP long-term rate for its largest loans. Unlike some
regional neighbors -- Thailand, for instance -- the private sector appears not to be competing with the
public sector and leading the charge down-market.
7.8         The major barrier to an effective public mortgage finance system in the Philippines is the
lack of political will among public housing finance agencies to bill and collect mortgage loans.
7.9         Partly as a result, an entrenched non-payment culture has taken hold, which is not confined
to the lower-income groups who have been the targets of political patronage programs over several
decades. There is consequent difficulty, both real and perceived, in collecting payments and foreclosing
delinquent loans, rooted in Philippine politics and foreclosure law. Para. 3.8 describes the two laws
which create delays and impediments in collateral liquidation by banks. The fundamental question
remains whether private banks could achieve a more sustainable level of loan recovery if given the
opportunity.
7.10        NHMFC's new administration attributes its poor collections not only to legal impediments,
but also to the relative uncreditworthiness oF the borrowers approved by the preceding administration.
Affordability analyses carried out during the project life, however, concluded that households were not
devoting an undue share of income to housing expenditures. The limits established in the underwriting
guidelines for both the proportion of total income devoted to housing (of 33%) and for loan amount (of
1.6 times annual income for infomally employed, and 2.5 times for those with formal employment) were
being observed. These are well within internationally accepted ranges for lower income families, and,
in fact, somewhat on the conservative side for the region.
7.11        Prospects for Reform. Despite these reversals and impediments to reform, forces outside
the housing sector could yet generate fundamental change in the housing finance system. Two forces
bring the system closer to reform at the end of 1994 than it has been in the past: macroeconomic stability
and international competition.



- 16 -
7.12        The new macroeconomic stability has brought inflation down and has reduced the central
government budget deficit. Short-term market interest rates had fallen to 14%-15% by the end of 1994,
at least temporarily within the range of long-term rates charged for loans under the UHLP, where the
nominal rates have remained at 9%, 12%, and 16% since its inception, but where points, fees and
charges have steadily risen, with an average yield in 1992 of 12.3%, roughly 3.4% below a proxy long-
term market rate. Reduced volatility in inflation rates and lower interest rates would encourage private
banks to move down-market. They would also make a secondary market more plausible, since the return
on UHLP loans might become attractive to investors. The banking sector is also opening to foreign
competition. If confidence builds in government's ability to maintain macro stability, and if the legal
impediments to collateral liquidation were reduced, foreign banks might be more aggressive in competing
with the public sector mortgage programs and might also introduce wider use of adjustable-rate mortgages
for smaller loans.
8.          Bank Performance
8.1         With this project, the Bank turned its focus from  housing production to reform of the
broader mandate and institutional structure of the sector as a whole, and to attempting to strengthen
housing finance. This shift was required because the four previous projects in the sector supported only
housing production, and had not yet addressed the wider and increasingly tangled sectoral issues. The
Bank prudently financed a project designed to improve the primary mortgage market, rather than one that
tried to build a secondary market on a shaky primary base. Still, the Bank underestimated the depth of
political commitment that was needed in the Philippine context to establish a viable primary mortgage
market and, in particular, to sustain such reforms as waves of elections every 2-3 years brought new
actors into both the political and administrative arenas. In this regard, it is unlikely that any additional
assurances or covenants could have ensured a successful project.
8.2         The project set high and perhaps unrealistic expectations, addressing a broad set of sectoral
issues and problems. It was comprehensive and ambitious. Interestingly, its failure was not attributable
to its scope or complexity, but to the lack of political will to operate housing finance on a viable basis,
with subsidies transparent, quantifiable, up-front, and clearly targeted on the poor.  The preferred
subsidies in the Philippine housing context have tended to be those which allow leveraging of greater
benefits today with costs that are both difficult to quantify, and which fall due at some point in the future.
While extensive efforts went into working with government agencies and ministries during preparation,
in-depth dealings with the country's political structure were sensitive and restricted. In designing future
projects, both the Bank and the Government Insufficient should exer. due effort in laying the fundamental
groundwork to ensure that agreed reforms could be carried out and sustained.
8.3         Shortly before Board presentation, the Bank got a clear signal that political pressures would
be strong to continue past types of subsidy. The new Aquino government announced a reduction in
interest rates on the smallest loans, a change that appeared to contradict the first year-to-year interest rate
agreement reached at negotiations. Immediate consultation forged an agreement with governrnent that
brought the move into line with agreed policy. The new subsidy would (a) be targeted on the lowest 30%
of households, and (b) would operate, in fact, as a capital subsidy (of approximately 20%), paid in full
up front by the treasury to NHMFC for each mortgage written, delivering to NHMFC annually the 9%
interest rate agreed with the Bank on the 80% loan balance. The volume of such mortgages would
depend on the volume of budgetary support received from year to year. NHMFC would undertake no
interest rate risk, nor would its yield drop below that agreed. This agreement brought the move in line



- 17 -
with the subsidy principles and interest rates agreed with the Bank and the loan was presented on schedule
to the Board. However, the last-minute nature of this shift was noted during Board discussion, and did
not enhance the Bank's confidence in the depth of comrnitment to subsidy reform or the government's
capacity to keep political initiatives in line with agreed policies. It proved to be a harbinger of further
erosions in subsidy policy over the loan's life.
8.4         This pattern repeated itself with the Abot Kaya legislation, discussed in paras. 5.6 and 5.7
above, for which the implementing regulations were ultimately used to blunt the more troubling effects
of the bill, and bring major conflicts back into line with agreed policy.
8.5         Though the Bank dialogue continued despite deepening of subsidies and the reintroduction
of insurance (where agreement was incomplete and studies were then underway), the financial viability
and solvency of NHMFC as embedded in the loan's legal covenants were considered sacrosanct. If
umunet, the Bank made clear from the start the project would be in jeopardy. The Bank's supervision
strategy was consistent with this design: staff monitored NHMFC's performance relative to these
covenants intensely and as accurately as it could, given the slow introduction of key GAAP accounting
principles which had been required under the loan.  Technical assistance in loan classification and
provisioning during 1990 helped pinpoint the rapidly deteriorating financial position of the agency,
obscured by the two most common practices used by banks world-wide to hide losses--a liberal income
recognition policy and inadequate loss provisioning.
8.6         The Bank showed considerable flexibility in its attempts to salvage the project. Each time
the project's goals appeared threatened -- at Board presentation, when the Abot Kaya law was passed,
and when NHMFC was clearly in financial trouble -- the Bank worked with the government to develop
plans of action, creative implementing regulations which would preserve key policy principles, and to
provide whatever technical assistance NHMFC was willing to accept. Once it became obvious that,
regardless of the Bank's active supervision, critical aspects of the loan agreements were unfulfilled and
likely to remain so, cancellation sent a clear message that the Bank considered the solvency of the key
financial intermediary - NHMFC - a primary objective of the project which could not be sacrificed or
compromised. It was a reasonable response to a project in serious trouble.
8.7         Questions have been raised as to whether the timing of cancellation was appropriate. Sector
officials point out the new administration which was installed late in the transition year of 1992 had
insufficient time to address NHMFC's serious problems, and feel that cancellation was premature. Some
within the Bank argue that cancellation should have occurred much sooner, at the time NHMFC failed
to achieve the first Action Plan or when the Abot Kaya Pabahay bill was passed, 18 months after start-up.
However, potential conflicts from the bill's drafting, which the Government offered assurances it could
fix, were insufficient justification for loan suspension, and such suspension could also not have been
exercised, even at the end of 1991, due to legal deficiencies in the way the first Action Plan was
established. When the Abot Kaya was passed, government assured the Bank apparent policy deviations
could be brought substantively back in line through the implementing regulations, without which the law
was meaningless. Supervising staff felt that, given the serious nature of loan suspension/cancellation, and
the realistic timeframe required to achieve the agreed actions, an appropriate degree of forbearance was
warranted from an institution like the Bank. The problems NHMFC faced, and the accounting rules it
employed to obscure its losses were hardly unusual. It can, in fact, be argued that NHMFC was held
to a higher standard than many public housing agencies supported by Bank loans. The question of the
timing of the cancellation is one of judgement on which parties may reasonably come to different
conclusions.



- 18 -
8.8         Kev Lessons Learned.  Perhaps the most fundamental lesson of this project is [ha[ the
assessment of the sincerity and sustainabilitv of political will for reform, which is absolutelv pivotal to
the success of adjustment operations and sustaining viable financial institutions, is a difficult judgement
at best. Assurances may be secured verbally and in writing, through formal and informal undertakings
which, in the end, may be overwhelmed by other, more powerful influences. It is a particularly troubling
sign when legislative actions of the Borrower appear to contradict the loan agreement early on. Actors
change, and with such change comes new perceptions and thus fluctuations in the level of commitment
to the original undertakings. Intensive efforts were made throughout the life of the loan to brief new
parties to the Bank's agreements, but high turnover made this a difficult and time-consuming task. As
noted above, it remains unclear what further assurances might have been secured or actions taken which
would have enhanced the project's chances of success.
8.9         Better groundwork in the form of collaborative studies with political and congressional
bodies would have yielded a firmer basis on which to make the difficult judgements called for.
Discussions of subsidy reform would have been improved with a more accurate and broadly focused
understanding of government outlays--both direct and indirect. In debates about the 1994 housing reform
bill, proponents of increased government outlays argued that government offers very little support to the
housing sector, though, in fact, the support that the sector receives from the government-sponsored
pension funds is considerable, though predominantly off-budget.  A thorough review of subsidies,
including those arising from low loan recovery rates, periodic recapitalization of insolvent institutions,
interest rates, tax breaks and insurance schemes would have lengthened yet further the already extensive
preparation time, but might also have greatly contributed to either more compatible legislation during the
loan life, or a clear decision by the Bank not to proceed with the loan at all.
8.10        A second lesson is that preparation work did not adequatelv involve the critical regulatory
agencies--the government auditor and Central Bank Supervision and Examination authority. Closer, more
direct collaboration with these agencies during project development might have alerted the Bank to the
"regulatory hole" into which NHMFC fell, that of non-bank (i.e. non-depository) financial institutions
that, while technically within the purview of Central Bank regulatory authority, were not subjected to
regular inspection. Such a dialogue might have initiated inspections earlier, and alerted both these
agencies and the Bank to some of the unorthodox (though not uncommon) accounting practices used by
the Corporation. Greater awareness of these issues during preparation might possibly have enhanced the
prospects of success, although adverse opinions and Central Bank inspections, as noted above, do not
seem to have led to change.
8.11        Earlier cooperation and strengthening of government's own oversight and regulatory
instruments would have eased pressures on the Bank to play these roles, and helped build regulatory
capacity within GOP. Advancing the dialogue about issues of transparency and accountability might also
have led to clearer understandings and agreements at appraisal regarding essential changes in accounting
practices, which did not occur until mid-1991 when implementing these changes was indeed painful for
NHMFC. It is doubtful, however. that it would have altered the final outcome of the project.
8.12        Third, though not Bank policy at the time, a private auditor should have been used to review
the Corporation's financial statements. Though the quality of government audit improved over the loan
life, an experienced corporate auditor familiar with GAAP accounting for banks and financial institutions
would have identified the Corporation's accounting issues much earlier.



- 19 -
8.13        Finally, it would appear with the benefit of hindsight that the original plan to apex loans
through the Central Bank to private banks to achieve greater private bank involvement in the role of loan
management might have achieved the viability that has eluded the public housing finance system in the
Philippines and elsewhere. Provided that the risk involved in this approach (i.e., the borrower onlending
funds to potentially uncreditworthy borrowers because they borrowings they are receiving from the World
Bank are fully insured) could be mitigated by careful design and risk sharing, such an approach might
well ultimately reduce the level of total government subsidy, and improve the targeting and transparency
of support to lower income groups. Exploring this possibility is one of the objectives of the Bank's
continuing dialogue and TA in this sector.
9.          Borrower Performance
9.1         The housing sector in the Philippines has had a long history of political intervention.
Specific legal provisions make collections and foreclosure difficult, and there has been a long-standing
public perception that associated the housing system with the unpopular Marcos regime, a history of poor
coordination and sectoral in-fighting between the public housing agencies, and frequent, politically-driven
changes in subsidy programs. It was clearly a difficult political context in which to undertake ambitious
reforms.
9.2         The PCR mission concluded that difficulties endemic to the sector represent an appropriate-
target for reform, and that further Bank advice should continue to pursue such reform. Considerable
caution should be exercised, however, before committing the Bank to any further lending or guaranty
operations.
9.3         Taking into account the difficult context, and despite strong assurances by key members of
government during preparation and appraisal of GOP's commitment to and support of the project's
objectives, the key agencies seemed to evidence little long-term commitment to and ownership of
important elements of the project. At the outset, the champions of reform were few but outspoken.
Toward the time of loan suspension many of those pressing for more conservative and professional
management of the sector had left government or shifted position, and no longer had a direct voice in the
direction or oversight of housing operations.
9.4         Sectoral leadership was unable or unwilling to manage the political environment, with the
result that reversals and erosions in agreed policies, especially on subsidies, occurred throughout the life
of the loan. Government's announcement that the smallest NHMFC loans would carry a 6% rather than
the agreed 9% rate (para. 8.3 above) was the first such instance. The second was NHMFC's double-
financing of mortgages by the pension funds and the Bank which violated the Bank's standing limitation
on refinancing of assets financed with Bank loans (para. 5.5).
9.5         This was followed by passage of the Abot Kaya law. Like the earlier reduction in the lowest
interest rate, this law conflicted with the agreed policy framework of the project. Though the Bank and
government were able to reach a compromise on how to implement the law which preserved critical
elements such as NHMFC's direct management of receivables, and "self-insurance" through loss
provisioning, it renewed insurance on pension fund borrowings, and eroded the predictability of subsidies
(paras. 5.6 and 5.7). These and the other actions covered in paras. 5.13-5.11 built a pattern that gave
the Bank little confidence that further promises would be met.



- 20 -
9.6         The financial troubles of NHMFC have many causes: the politicization of the housing
industry, an adverse legal context, a culture of non-payment, and weak management and internal systems
were all factors. Since the Corporation was recapitalized under the project, and it's achievement of
sustainable viability was a critical objective, it was incumbent on NHMFC to provide accurate, relevant
information on its own financial position. The Corporation's accounting practices effectively obscured
its precarious position, though the Bank and central government had a reasonably accurate picture of the
situation. Through the early years of the project, the government auditor remained unconvinced of the
need for loan loss reserves, taking the position that assets backed by real property collateral could not
possibly realize a loss when eventually liquidated. Bank missions provided extensive material on the
Savings and Loan crisis in the United States and the normal cyclic fluctuations of real estate values in a
number of countries to convince the auditor to adopt more conservative assumptions.
9.7         By the time of cancellation, the most central problems of transparency in financial reporting
had been largely resolved. The Corporation's underlying, more fundamental problem of low recovery
rates had not, nor were there any signs of impending improvement, following two years of intense
dialogue. Though the project did help initiate financial oversight of NHMFC by the Central Bank. its
enforcement powers had been neither exercised nor tested, and an initiative was underway by late 1992
to terminate Central Bank authority over NHMFC and shift oversight functions to the SEC.
9.8         Following cancellation, NHMFC's reversal at the end of 1993 of P459 (USS18) million in
loss reserves which had been built up during 1991-92 would seem to clearly indicate that the Corporation
remained unconvinced of the value of more transparent accounting practices. To its credit, COA noted
this reversal in its adverse audit opinion at the end of the year. It is unclear whether the more
conventional income recognition (non-accrual) policies adopted in 1991 have also been abandoned.
10.         Project Documentation and Data
10.1        The Bank legal documents served the project adequately. It is unlikely than any additional
covenants could have ensured a successful project. Data relevant to the preparation of the PCR was
readily available.
The Corporation initially recognized and booked all interest income regardless of whether the loan was
performing or not. A revised policy was subsequently adopted allowing booking of income on
nonperforming loans over 10 months only if received in cash, and backing out of previously recognized
income on such loans.



-21 -
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 9974-P'-4
PART LU PPQJECT RRVTF  FROM BORROWPR'S PFRRPFCTTV
INTRODUCTION
In accordance with the World Bank-s recent guidelines for the
preparation of project completion reports, this document will
focus on the main problems of the Housing Sector Project, Loan
2974-PH. In the absence of the Part I, NHMFC is not in a position
to present its comments and reactions.
PART II is presented as follows:
A. Background
.B. The Unified Housing Loan Program
G. Funding Requirements
D. Project Execution
E. Overall Assessment of the Project
E.1. Performance of the Bank
E.2. Performance of the NhMFC
F. Project Impact on Urban Development
G. Conclusion



A.  Eack-round
There has alwavs been a need to address the acute demand for
housing.   Despite  the significant increase in  the  overall
housing  production  prior  to 1i96,  the  housing  situation
continues to be alarming.
NEDA has estimated the total housing need for the entire
country  for the period 1987-1992 at 3.4 million  units.   Of
this number 1.5 million units are targetted for the rural
areas while 1.6 million are for the urban areas. In terms Of
money values, the total cosI required ior house  construction
is about P30 billion.  And yet to address the housing  crisis
goes  beyond mere provision of the physical  structure.   The
problem   is  invariably   linked   with   economic   growth,
industrialization,   urban  migration,  cultural  norms   and
values, etc.
The change in administration in 1986 brought the changes that
took place in the shelter sector. The Ministry of Human
Settlements was replaced by the Housing and Urban Development
Coordinating   Council   which   represents   the    umbrella
organization that oversees the network of housing agencies-
namely: Home Development Mutual Fund; National Home Mortgage
Finance     Corporation;   Human    Settlements    Regulatory
Commission;   National   Housing   Authority.    The   Aquino
Administration initiated the integration and synchronization
of the shelter system into three basic components: finance,
production and regulation. These runctions are implemented
by key housing agercies together with the private sector.
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation is mandated to
serve as the major home mortgage institution whose primary
function is to establish and operate a viable home mortgage
system and to develop a secondary mortgage market system. It
has  to  secure  sources  of fund and  establish  instruments
directed dowards generation of funds to be utilized for the
shelter program.
Simultaneous  with  the   reorganization  of  the   different
agencies,  camne  the  unification  of  the  various   shelter
programs of the government-the Uniiied Home Lending Program.
This program sought to redirect the runds of the government
to assist the low and middle income group.
B.  Unified Home Lending Program
This   program,   administered   oy  NHMFC   integrates   the
different housing loan programs or the government prior to
1966 into a single system. Executive urder 90 issued by the
aquino  Administration called for the rationalization of  the
shelter  program.   This  rationalization  required  that  an
equitabie   distribution   of  the  loan   beneficiaries   is
represented by a cross section oI society, the middle and low



- 23 -
income group. Another revision was made in te'rms of interestz
rates vis a vis loan values.  In this program, the higher the
loan, the higher the interest rates. Unlike the previous
program, wnereby, the interest rate or nine percent was
charged uniformly up to a maximum loan of P3.5(J i; of Fag-lbl
members.   It  was  further  aggravated  by  the  act,  that
majority of the mortgage borrowers belong to the higher
income bracket of society. And yet substantial contributions
of the loan funds came trom the employees belonging to the
middle and low income group when the Pag-ibig membership
was  compulsory  imposed.   Hence, the  new  housing  program
rectified the policy on loan availments.
The UHLP was designed to provide for the housing assistance
to  the  low and middle income families ox society  based  on
their   affordability  levels.   The  target    beneficiaries
include the members of S55, GSIS and Pag-ibig or which runds
for their loans are provided by these agencies, while non-
members can avail of the loans via the limited funds of
NHMFCU As the program becomes operational, the loan availers
are to increase among the member and non-member borrowers.
Hence, to ensure the continuity of the program, NHMFC needed
to secure the necessary funds from World Bank.
The  Loan Agreement was executed in the latter part of  198
with an approved loan of $160 million US Dollars and the
first drawdown was released during the first quarter of 1989.
While members of 555, GSIS and HD'MF can avail of the loan
via the funding of these institutions, non-members can avail
of  the  loan via the funding of the  World  Bank.   However,
these   prospective   borrowers  should   comply   with   the
requirements   of   Vhe  UHLP.    Members  of   the   runding
institutions must be members in good and active standing,
and should not own a residential unit either as sole owner or
co-owner  and has not availed or any housing loan  either  as
principal borrower or as a co-ooiigor, except ror the purpose
of residential lot purchase only.
The terms of the loan were as rollows:
LOAN            INTEREST
PACWAG S           B   
A        p60 K   hel oelow      ei%.       255 yrs
B        Over P6C ro P90 K    9              2 5 yrs
C,       Over  t90 rto P12'C) K   12%        25 yrs
D)       Over p12C) to F18o K  1 5%/'        25 yre.
-i ver v1;,8  to F2-50 K  16 n;    25 yrs



24 -
The program was geared towards estcablishing a mortgage system
that would provide the funds required for long-term housing
loans  on  a  continuous and seif-sustaining  basis.  it  was
designed to encourage the participation ot the private sector
in  the  production   and  delivery  of  the  housing  units.
Housing developers were encouraged to participate in the
mortgage  origination  of  the program.   Together  with  the
financial institutions, developers became direct participants
in the delivery of housing units and acquisition process.
In order to convince these key piayers, NHHFC was obliged to
possess   sufficient  funds  ror  tihe  program   hence,   the
assistance from the World Bank was very timely.
The   mortgage  origination  system  comprises   Om   several
activities   namely:   the   accreditation   oI  prospective
originators; actual delivery or mortgage take-outs; release
of  funds  as  payments or the  mortgages;  estabiishment  of
records   and  monitoring or each  account  representing  the
collection system; installation or legal remedies in case or
deliquencies; and accounz management or acquirea assets.
Simultaneous with the operation or the UHLP, the Government
further sought to promote low-cost community-based financing
schemes operating through non-government organizations, local
governments, civic and religious groups. It was then that
the   concept  of  "community  mortgage"   that  was  finally
introduced.
The Community Mortgage Program is primarily intended to
assist residents of blighted and depressed areas to avail of
the  housing  loans.  These housing loans would  enable   the
beneficiaries to initially own the lots that they occupy and
eventually build a decent house thereon to the rull extent or
their  aifordability.   These associations however,  must  oe
organized into a duly registered community association.
World Bank funding was again tapped mor this purpose.
Through  the representations or NH.IIWC, the World Bank  agreed
to expand the coverage oI the Loan Agreement to the community
mortgage program based on certain guidelines.
To qualify ror the program, the title over the subJect
property snould be clean and rree irom any liens and
encumbrances.   The initiai loan covers the acquisition  cost
for the home lots and subsequent loans shall cover house
construction and improvements.
Maximum loanable amounts ror each oorrower are as ollows:
For lot acquisition or an undeveloped property k3'.O K
For lot acquisition of developea property         ?4b K



25 -
For lot acquisition, development and house
construction                                   P80 K
The  loan  carries  a  nine-percent  interest  rate   with  a
twenty-live year repayment period.
The other program is the Corporate Housing Program designed
to enable a wide range oI employees/workers to avail of
credit for housing at a lower price. T'he loan is ortered to
employers to provide ins stair with a housing assistance
program without necessarily incurring the zull costs and
administrative works usually involved in such programs.
The Loan packages are as tollows with a maximum oI twenty-
five year term:
A     Up to p60 K   -  6%
B            90 K   -  8%
C            120 K   -  11%
D            180 K   -  14%
E           250 K   -  15%
Subsequent  amendments  on the loan packages  were  initiated
which resulted to the following:
A              0 to i150 K - 9%
B    over    Y150 to P225 K - 12%
C    over    ?225 to P375 K - 16%
C.  Funding Requirements
The SSS, GSIS and HDMF serve as iunders for their respective
member  loan.  Funding commitments of SSS, GSIS and HDMF  are
annually  drawn   while  fund  releases  are  made  based  on
mortgage purchase schedules corresponding to the member loan
category.    These agencies get a guaranted yield  of  10.125
per cent.
The initial funds of P7.67 million from SSS, annually
increased to Y3,628.28 billion in 1992. For the past five
years, SSS has contributed P11,579.20 billion to housing.
Un the other hand, GSIS has contributed initially P3.97
million in 1987, this has reached the ?725.65 marked in 1992.
Consequently, GSIS's total loan assistance was Y1,974.62
billion  as of year end 1992.  While HDMF has contributed  an
aggregate of V472.50 as of year end 1992.



- 26 -
World  Bank  :unds channeiled to tne entire  housing  program
amounted to   ,        million as oI year end lYZ'.  Total loan
released   was  equivalent to US $125,263-735  million   which
comprises of $76.635 million program loan and $48.627 million
pro.jectl oan. The loan was drawn on a reimbursement basis.
D_  Project Execution
Together  with  rinancial  institutions.  developers   became
direct participants in the housing delivery and acquisition
process.   These originators became the marketing arm of  the
program and with the inclusion of developers as  originators,
growing  awareness significantly contributed to the  unabated
growth of NHMFC. Under the program, these originators apply
for accreditation as mortgage loan originators through the
regular purchase commitment system.
The purchase commitment system, which is covered by a
purchase commitment agreement, the prospective originator
applies for a commitment line which embodies the commitment
of NHiM1FC to purchase their mortgages for a period of six
months.   The line specifies the amount of mortgages and  the
corresponding drawdown schedule based on project time phase.
In applying for a commitment line, a developer is required to
submit the project concept and design of the property, which
is referred to in the purchase commitment agreement as
collateral  of  the mortgage loans.  He is also  required  to
secure the necessary permit and licenses neccesary in the
development of the property. He further undertakes the
development oI the project site including construction of the
housing units.  The completed housing units or aeveloped lots
are   then   sold  to   prospective   buyer/borrower    which
subsequently  becomes the collateral of the housing loan.
All loan documents submitted to NHMFC are reviewed and the
corresponding mortgage payment made. Release of the proceeds
of  loan  is made through the  originators.   Eorrower/s  are
also  notified  by NIMAFC about the release of  loan  proceeds
*.hrough the originators. The Notice to Borrower includes
among others the take-out date or date of the loan release,
the first and subsequent monthly amortization due dates, and
the amount of regular monthly amortization. Payments of the
monti.ly  amortization is made by the borrower eitner  through
the authorized collecting bank or through salary deduction.
Since at the outset only government banks were authorized to
receive the monthly amortization payments, NHMFC experienced
poor collection  and yet the loans were availed by  borrowers
nationwide. Thus, NHitFC  secured the approval of Central Bank
to authorize private banks to become collecting banks.   This
is now in line with the extensive collection campaign being
pursued by the present administration.



- 27 -
In addition, the Corporation has also executed collection
agreement  with  employers who qualiiies  to  implement   the.
salary  deduction  scheme.   The  formal  launching  of  this
campaign was made in middle part of 1993, and 1,565 employers
have  executed  collection  agreements  with  NHFMFC.   it  i s
expected that effects of the amortization collections irom
this scheme shall be reflected in 1994.
E. Overall Assessment of the Project
1. Performance of the Bank
Through  the Bank's timely assistance,  NHMFC was able  ro
extend the    benefits of the program not only to the non-
members oI SSS, GSIS & HDMF, but also to the members of
the community associations in the depressed areas.
As previously stated, the funds served so many non- memoer
borrowers applied under this program especially those
covered by the house and lot packages from the runds
alloted to the tjiLP.  Under the Community Mortgage Program
P126.68 M worth of projects equivalent to 4,756 housing
units were generated from the assistance. In fact at the
time the loan was cancelled, there were an estimated
1,000 projects in the pipeline which were being  processed
and were greatly affected.
The cancellation brought to fore the fund problem of NHMFC
and how it could sustain the community mortgage program.
On the other hand, it could not be denied that the Bank
closely monitored the operations and performance of NHMFI'.
Quarterly reports have always been provided. Consultation
meetings   were  reguiar  which  were   directed   towards
management  of receivables. The primary objective  was  to
reflect in the f'inancial records the alleged "true" status
of the accounts
The Bank strongly recommended to N?HFC to change its
income   recognition  policy  as  a  consequence  oI   its
perceived complacent attitude towards the deterioratIng
condition  of its collection performance. Previous  policy
required  a  periodic 5/o charged as  loan  ioss  provision
computed using the allowance method. The new policy
enzorced in 1991 required the following:
1)  General provision of 1% of the outsranding  balance
of all C'MP accounts.
5%  of the loan value of   a,
UHLP accounts.



- 28 -
2)  Specific provisions of 1U0io of the outztanding balance
of  MCRs  and  Items   in
Litigation aged 12 to 24
months in arrears.
2 0 /o of the outstanding balance
of  MCRs  and  Items   in
Litigation aged over 24
montns in arrears.
The change reflected substantial reversal of recorded
accrued income and the discontinuance in the recognition
Of income irom presumed deliquent accounts.
2. Performance of NHMFC
As NHMFC operates the program, under the one fund concept,
it did not only exceed its volume target of mortgage-
takeout but also the values of mortgage purchased.   While
it could not be denied that it has been, now and then,
confronted  by  fund   shortfalls  brought  about  by  the
delays  in the release of funds from the funders  and  the
inability  of its borrowers to update their  accounts,  it
remains steadfast in its commitment to serve its mandate.
Previous investigation revealed, that majority of the
borrowers   have  contracted  second  mortgage  with   the
originators covering the equity portion of the total
housing unit cost, which are paid ahead of the NHMFC loan,
aside from infusing structural improvements on the unit.
Purchase commitment lines, which is indicative of the
strong participation of both the private and the public
sectors in the government home financing program also
registered a significant increase over the years. From a
total of 71 purchase commitment lines valued at p7Q6  M
approved at year end 1987, these surged to 1,356 approved
lines with an equivalent value of ?19,500.7 M covering
102,966 units as  of December 31, 1992 for the UHLP.
On the other hand, the CMP which was envisioned to be an
effective vehicle in the delivery of shelter finance
services to the lowest 30 percent of the population
manifested its progress in 1969. PCL approvals under the
program   registered   15)  accredited   projects   which
benifitted 3,262 families as of year end 1989 which have
notably increased to ?777.232 M  C.L for 307 projects
covering 3,381 beneficiaries as of year end 1992.
The program is originated primarily by local government
units  and  non-government  organizations  all  over   the
country.   Another  indicator OI the  public's  trust  and
confidence over the housing program is the noted increase
in the number of accredited originators trom 162 in 1987
to 268 in 1992.



- 29 -
NHMFC managed an initial performance Oi Y12.9 M  in acTual
mortgage take-outs at the end ot 1967 representing '29
housing  units for 162 beneficiaries. As of  December  31,
1992, it had increased its purchases to an aggregate
amount oIf  15.,'r5 B worrh of mortgaaes wirh an  equivaient
of  98,414 housing units and lot purchased  combined   for
111,526 beneficiaries.  From these figures, ?136.83 M were
released  from the Bank-s fund representing 2,368  housing
units. All these mortgage portfolios were availed by the
borrowers from the thirteen regions oI the country with
Regions 4, NCR, 3 and 11 as the major beneiiciaries.
Outright some 1,495 housing unitis with an equivalent OI
P94.68  M  in mortgage vclues were covered  by  the  firot
reimbursement from the Bank. However, as the program is
accepted over the years, the funds coming irom the Bank
was  utilized not only to satis:y the   loan  applications
the  non-member and the community associations   but  also
the  loan  applications  under  the   Developmental   Loan
Program and the economic housing units. The alloted funds
for  the Program Loan was ?1,-.lr' M while  the  Project
Loan component was Y1,154.827 M.
Through  the  assislance of the SSS, GSIS,  HDMF  and  the
World   Bank  it  can  now  be  claimed  that  NHHFC   has
contributed  in  alleviating  the  housing  needs  of  the
country.   Aside  from  assuming a  pivotal  role  in  the
housing industry it has become one of the catalysts in the
economic programs oI the government.
However, as the volume of mortgages is bolstered, there
is  a  seeming   deterioration  in   the  qual ity  of  the
accounts.   NiMFC is now compelled to look into the payment
profile of its accounts. As stated earlier, cumulative
collections vis-a-vis cumulative billings remains very
low, although it could be the highest among Government
Financial Institutions doing silimar lending which compels
NHMFC  to enforce its   existing  strategies  on collection.
CHP accounts also contributed to the decline of collection
eificiency.   There   are  at  present  ten  CMP   projects
considered as foreclosable.
With   mortgage  volume  generation   already   surpassing
expected levels, it has become incumbent for the NFIIFC  to
ascertain acceptable quality of the MCR porfolio and keep
amortization deliquencies within manageable limits.



-30 -
The collection efficiency whicn stood at b8.60 percent for
UHLP  and  54.84  percent  for CrP  in  1992   is  further
dampened by the economic difficulties brought about by
the series of combined natural calamities that beset the
country during the previous years.  There was the mounting
pressure from the borrowers residing in the calamitY
stricken  areas  that NHMFC declared a moratorium  in  the
collection  of  amortization  eifective  July  1990.   The
cumulative collection performance went down since l989.
Meanwhile,  the  effects oI the change in  the  loan  loss
provision policy upon the strong recommendation ot World
Bank as reflected in the 1991 financial statements has
taken its toll on the financial status of NHMFC.
Although there appears to be an unabated increase in the
delinquency rate, NHIFC has yet to implement a  systematic
approach to its delinquent accounts which should consider
the following concerns:
1) establishing direct linkages with the borrowers
other than through the originators especially after
the release of the proceeds of the loan;
2) conducting interviews with the borrowers to fEind
out the reasons and causes of their failure to pay
their amortization;
3) inspection oI the collaterals of the deliquent
accounts    which   could    reveal    improvements
underta-ken that contribute to the delay in the
payment of amortization, however these increase the
value of the collateral;
4)  tracking  down the location of  the  borrowers;
5) pursuing the warranties of the originators and
initiating   the   buyback   arrangement   whenever
necessary as in the case of major defects;
6)  determine  whether   collecting banks  are  in  the
area and whether they are functioning based on the
terms and conditions ot the collection agreement;
7)  Timeliness  of NHMIC's records and  responsiveness
of its monitoring mechanisms;



-31 -
Results of a thorough evaluation oI the acCount inclusive
of physical inspection oI the unit and interview oI the
borrower could reveal factors that could lead to a more
focused strategy towards recovering the exposure on tne
these accounts rather than applying a sweeping policy OI
subjecting  all accounts into the disadvantageous  general
and specific loan loss provisions.
Ev  its  own  admission  the  Bank   was   conironted   by
insufficient data for purposes ot quantitative analysis
and the monitoring systems were deficient to warrant
objective   results.    However,  the   adjustments   were
relentlessly pursued.
Changes in the policies of accounting treatment  involving
income recognition from delinquent accounts starting  1991
substantially eroded the proiitability of NHMFC. Total
resources as of the end of 1992 amounted to ?18,74'2.A M as
compared  to  ?2,530.0 M In 1987 posting  an  increaSe  OI
640.79  percent  over the level of 1987.   The  growth  in
total assets is attributed to the substantial increase  in
MCR  Folio !I. On the other hand, results Of of erations in
1992 showed a net loss of F441.455 LM. Total liabilities
accounted was Y18,634.5 M in 1992 as compared to F2,040.1
M in 1987 or 813.4 percent increase. The contributions
from  the  funders  amounted to ?15,709.5  M  in  1992  as
compared  to  P287.9 M in 1987.   Again,  the  significant
increase is attributed to the ever growing demand for
housing assistance. Total networth at year end 1992 was
recorded at a negative p162.77 M as compared to a poaitive
p459.89 IM in 1987.
F. Project Impact on Urban Development
In order to gauge correctly the impact of UHLP's performance
to the industry as a whole, it is necessary to look at the
bigger profile OI the whole shelter system as registered in
the phases of housing regulation, production and finance.
This would include the development permits and license-to-
sell  granted by the Housing and Land Use  Regulatory  Board,
loan insurance and development guarantees extended by the
Home Insurance and Guaranty Corporation, government housing
production from the National Housing Authority and borrower's
request for Certificate of Loan Eligibility from the funding
agencies  which eventually translated into housing loans  and
units   financed   through  the  mortgage   system   of   the
Corporation.



-32 -
The liquidity mechanism provided by NHMFC to the housing
industry has pivoted the courses of action of the developers
and   financial   institutions.   Thev are now  motivated  to
effectively plan their development projects over a longer
time frame as they look forward to the assurance oI available
of funds to turnaround their investments.
It can be gleaned further that communities are building up
within the subdivision creating stronger ties and camaraderie
among borrowers which could be tap indirectly as an avenue
for   collection   schemes.  With  the   magnitude   of   its
beneficiaries, ULHLP should have become a by word oI every
family   and the  role  of NIMFC,  along  its   purposes  and
objectives, understood by them.
G.  CONCLUSION
Through   the   loan  extended  to  NHMFC,   the   Bank   has
satisfactorily  assisted  the Corporation  in  expanding  its
entitled beneficiaries. However, the government has yet to
address the equity problem to guarantee the Corporation-s
stability  and  continued viability. In conformity  with  its
long-term objectives, it cannot definitely operate with a
F500 M capital, that is why for the past years, the
Corporation was highly dependent on its leverage. It is now
the Government's turn to respond and infuse funds via the
capital account. The magnitude of NHMFC's exposure, the
relatively low interest rates of the loan offered, the long-
term recovery of its receivables and the fact that, it was
able  to  operate  though  undercapitalized  should  be   the
creditable factors that warrants the infusion of additional
capital to the Corporation.
Despite external and internal pressures, the UHLP remains a
propelling factor in the infrastructure pro.jects of the
government and initiator of labor employment in the country.
Looking  into, the  accomplishments  of  NHMFC, it  could  be
claimed  that  through the UHLP the dream of  every  Filipino
family to have a house of their own has become a reality.   A
total 1.2 million households have yet to realize this dream
by 1996, however. Presently, the Corporation is now beset
with greater challenges, primarily survival and greater
relevance. And with the firm commitment of the NIanagement to
reinvigorate NHNFC, there is no reason why it could not
sustain the demands for the housing finance.



-33 -
PROFILE OF MORTGAGE TAiSH-OUT
LO&N BRACKET         NO. OF  PERCEH-  NO. OF            TOTAL            LOAN VALURE
UNITS    TAGE   BENEFICIAR          LOAN            BENEFICIARY
VALUE
1987
0  TO     15         0    0.00         0                   0.00
15  TO     30         0    0.00         0                   0.00
30  TO     45        49   40.83%        49          2,167.200.00        44.228.57
45  TO     60         2    1.67X         2            108,000.00        54,000.00
60  TO     75         0    0.00         0                   0.00
75  TO     90         2    1.67X         2            162.600.00        81,300.00
90  TO    105         7    5.833         7            693,700.00        99,100.00
105  TO    120        17   14.17X        22          2,012,357.00        91,470.77
120  TO    135        10    8.33x        18          1,260,224.00        70,012.44
135  TO    150         7    5.831        11          1,013,061.00        92,096.45
SUB TOTAL                             94   78.33%        111          7,417,142.00        66,821.10
150  TO    165         7    5.83X        11          1,105,336.00       100,485.09
165  TO    180        19   15.83:        26          3,296,785.00       126,799.42
180  TO    195         0    0.00         0                   0.00
195  TO    210         0    0.00         0                   0.00
210  TO    225         0    0.00         0                   0.00
SUB TOTAL                             26   21.671         37         4,402,121.00        118,976.24
225  TO    240         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
240  TO    255         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
255  TO    270         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
270  TO    285         0    0.00         0                   0.00             0.00
285  TO    300         0    0.00         0                   0.00             0.00
300  TO    315         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
315  TO    330         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
330  TO    345         0    0.00         0                   0.00             0.00
345  TO    360         0    0.00         0                   0.00             0.00
360  TO    375         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
SUB TOTAL                              0    0.00          0                  0.00             0.00
TOTAL                                120                 148         11,819.263.00        79,859.89



- 34 -
PROFILE OF HORTGAGE TAJ.X-OUT
1988
0 TO      15        3    0.04%          3            43.500.00        14,500.00
15 TO      30      173    2.34%       175          4,424,612.00        25,283.50
30  TO     45    1.737   23.47%    1,743          72,530,130.00        41,612.24
45  TO     60      343    4.63%       358         19,519,440.00        54,523.58
60  TO     75       93    1.26%        97          6,454,632.00        66,542.60
75  TO     90      243    3.28%       291         20,714,045.00        71,182.29
90  TO    105      250    3.38%       343         24,895,332.00        72,581.14
105  TO    120    1,400   18.91%    1,908         164,071,722.00        85,991.47
120  TO    135      505    6.82%       690         65.113,093.00        94,366.80
135  TO    150      705    9.52%       962        101,272,561.00       105,272.93
SUB TOTAL                         5,452   73.66%    6,570         479,039,067.00        72,913.10
150  TO    165      684    9.24%       966        108,064,106.00       111,867.60
165  TO    180    1,098   14.83%    1,507         193,149,684.00       128,168.34
180  TO    195       57    0.77%        73         10,751,350.00       147,278.77
195  TO    210       39    0.53%        52          7,912,010.00       152,154.04
210  TO    225       16    0.22%         20         3,457,400.00       172,870.00
SUB TOTAL                         1,894   25.59%    2,618         323,334,550.00       123,504.41
225  TO    240       20    0.27%        25          4,648,600.00       185,944.00
240  TO    255       36    0.49X        45          8,988,900.00       199,753.33
255  TO    270        0    0.00%          0                  0.00
270  TO    285        0    0.00%          0                  0.00
285  TO    300        0    0.00%          0                  0.00
300  TO    315        0    0.00%          0                  0.00
330  TO    345        0    0.00          0                  0.00
345  TO    360        0    O.OO%          0                  0.00
360  TO    375        0    0.00%          0                  0.00
SUB TOTAL                            56    0.76%        70         13.637,500.00       194,821.43
TOTAL                             7.402              9.258        616,011,117.00        88,141.19
CUM. TOTAL                        7,522              9,406        827.830,380.00       168,001.07
(1987-1988)



- 35 -
PROFILE OF hORTGAGL TAKEN-OUT
1989
0  TO      15       100    0.52X       100           1.191,100.00         11,911.00
15  TO     30       683    3.57%        686          16,671,473.00        24,311.19
30  TO      45    4,647   24.28%    4.664           193,009,382.00         41,382.80
45  TO      60      461    2.41%        492          26.527,931.00         53,918.56
60  TO      75      357    1.86%        391          25,264,308.00         64,614.60
75  TO      90      686    3.58%        821          58,535,564.00         71,297.59
90  TO    105       595    3.11X        762          59,222.777.00         77,720.18
105  TO    120    2.674   13.97X    3,711           313,469.823.00         64,470.45
120  TO    135       591    3.09%        782          76,679,190.00         98,055.23
135  TO    150    1,486    7.76%    1,931           213,791,954.80         110,715.67
SUB TOTAL                          12,280   64.15X   14,340          984,369,502.80         68,645.01
150  TO    165    1,448    7.56%    1.995            229.233,077.00        114,903.80
165  TO    180    3,195   16.69%    4,296           564,250,046.00         131,343.12
160  TO    195       286    1.49%        383          54.477,463.00       142.238.51
195  TO    210       483    2.52X        659          97.551,809.00       148.030.06
210  TO    225        392    2.051       540          85,238.222.00        157,848.56
0U5 TOTAL                           5,804   30.32%    7,873            1,030,750,617       130,922.22
225  TO    240        374    1.95%       508          87,294.475.00        171,839.52
240  TO    255        422    2.20%       531         104,909,071.00        197.566.87
255  TO    270         73    0.38X        96          19,113,964.00        199,103.79
270  TO    285         74    0.39X        98          20.558,686.00        209,762.51
285  T7    300        116    0.61%        148         34.598.156.00        233,771.32
300  TO    315          0    0.00%          0                  0.00              0.00
315  TO    330          0    0.00%          0                  0.00              0.00
330  TO    345          0    0.00i          0                   0.00             0.00
345  TO    360          0    0.00%          0                   0.00             0.00
360  TO    375          0    0.00%          0                   0.00             0.00
SUB-TOTAL                           1.059    5.53%    1.381             266.474.352        192,957.53
TOTAL                              19,143        1    23,594          2,281,594,472         96,702.32
CUM TOTAL                          26.665        1    33,000          3,109,424,852         94,225.00
(1987-89)



- 36 -
PEOFILE OF HORTGAGE TAiiH-dUT
1990
0  TO     15       235    1.141       235          2,592,550.00        10,893.07
15  TO     30       796    3.83%       797         18,689,387.00        23,449.67
30  TO     45    3.266   15.801    3.319          138,075,072.07        41,601.41
45  TO     60       120    0.58X       126          6,765,885.00        53,697.50
60  TO     75       938    4.51X    1,212          63,630,152.29        52,500.13
75  TO     90       969    4.661    1,079          79,260,864.80        73,457.71
90  TO    105       570    2.74X       613         55,800,432.00        91,026.44
105  TO    120    2,126   10.22X    2,719          250.644,256.00        92,182.51
120  TO    135       297    1.43X       369         38.792,990.00       105,130.05
135  TO    150       921    4.431    1,177         133,480,089.88       113,407.04
SUB-TOTAL                         10,261   49.34x   11,649            787,731,679
150  TO    165    1,157    5.561    1,487          183,282,487.00       123,256.55
165  TO    180    4,594   22.091    5,985          815,739,155.00       136,297.27
180  TO    195       204    0.981       294         39,087,759.00       132,951.56
195  TO    210       621    2.991       863        126,143,250.00       146,168.31
210  TO    225       594    2.661       817        129,641,580.00       158,680.02
SUB-TOTAL                          1,170   34.47    9g,446          1,293,894,231        136,978.00
225  TO    240       897    4.311    1,226         210,886,681.00       172,011.97
240  TO    255       604    2.901       800        150,242,194.00       187,802.74
255  TO    270       473    2.27%       651        124,066,856.40       190,578.89
270  TO    285       376    1.81%       496        104,288,910.00       210,259.90
285  TO    300    1,017    4.891    1,341          303,225,930.00       226,119.26
300  TO    315         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
315  TO    330         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
330  TO    345         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
345  TO    360         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
360  TO    375         0    0.001         0                   0.00             0.00
SUB-TOTAL                          3,367   16.191    4,514         892,710,571.40            986773
TOTAL                             20,758        1    25,609         2.974,336,481        116,144.19
CUH TOTAL                         47,463             58,609         6,083,761,333        103,802.51
(1987-90)



- 37 -
PROFILE OF KORTGAGE TAKEN-OUT
1991
0  TO     15       298    1.11       299          3.395,150.00         11.365.05
15  TO     30    1,998    7.46%    2,002           44,622,360.00        22.288.89
30  TO     45    2,829   10.57X    2,875          117.160,535.00         40,751.49
45  TO     60       130    0.491       197          7.338,500.00         37,251.27
60  TO     75       854    3.191       992         59,430,696.89         59,909.98
75  TO     90    1,059    3.95X    1,173           87,094.074.00         74.249.00
90  TO    105    1,272    4.75%    1,331          124,497,214.00         93,536.60
105  TO    120    1,929    7.20%    2.254          220,263,937.00        97,721.36
120  TO    135       760    2.841       829         96,273,634.00        116,132.25
135  TO    150    1,639    6.12%    1,956          240,300.123.14       122,852.82
- -----  ----- -- -- ----- ---- -- -- ------ --    - --- -- -----
SUB-TOTAL                         12,768   47.681   13,908       1,000,379,224.03         71,928.33
150  TO    165       483    1.801       593         76.713,707.67        129,365.44
165  TO    180    2,694   10.06X    3,322          478,369,985.00        144,000.60
180  TO    195       461    1.721       572         87,133,240.00       152,330.84
195  TO    210       956    3.571    1,218         194,332.126.00       159,550.19
210  TO    225    2,991   11.171    3,768          662,949,885.91        175,942.11
- - - --- -- -- - -- -- -- -- --- --- -- -- -- -- -- ----- ---- --------
SUB-TOTAL                          7,585   28.331    9,473       1,499,498,944.58        156,291.88
225  TO    240       494    1.841       656        116.230,100.00        177,180.03
240  TO    255       957    3.57x    1,190         237,561,072.00        199.631.15
255  TO    270       942    3.52%    1.166         247,823,660.00       212,541.73
270  TO    285       815    3.04%    1,019         226,236,870.00        222,018.52
285  TO    300    1,531    5.721    1.958          454,255,823.60        231,999.91
300  TO    315       239    0.89s       298         73,561,400.00       246,850.34
315  TO    330       303    1.131       382         97,995,490.00        256,532.70
330  TO    345       211    0.79s       268         71.373,200.00        266.317.91
345  TO    360       245    0.91X       313         86,494,567.00        276,340.47
360  TO    375       687    2.57x       856        256,344,300.00        299.467.64
------  -- -- ---  -- -- ---- ----- -- -- -- ------ ---- -- ------
SUB-TOTAL                          6,424   23.991    8,106       1,867,876,482.60        230,431.35
TOTIL                             26,777             31,487      4,367,754,651.21        136.716.13
C    TOTAL                        74.240             90,096    10.451,515,984.45         116,004.22
i1987-91i



-38 -
PROFILE OF MORTGAGE TAEN-OUT
1992
0  TO     15      298    1.231        298         3.850,75.00         13,023.07
15  TO     30      901    3.73X       905         19,774.703.00        21,850.50
30  TO     45    1.552    6.42%    1.585          64,136,580.67        40.464.91
45 TO      60       93    0.381        144         5.23a,212.50        36,376.48
60  TO     75       58    0.24%         73         3,545,069.30        52,672.18
75  TO     90      524    2.17%        611        43,642,573.73        71,428.11
90  TO    105      882    3.65%    1,005          87,783,682.70        87,346.95
105  TO    120    1,225    5.07x    1,423         141,494,667.00        99,434.06
120  TO    135      946    3.91%    1,049         121,961,863.65       116,264.88
135  TO    150    3.154   13.05%    3,721         479,052,941.89       128,743.06
SUB TOTAL                         9.633   39.851   10,814         970,811,469.44        89,773.58
150  TO    165      276    1.141        322        44,577,460.79       138,439.32
165  TO    180    1.136    4.701    1,318         202,278,787.17       153,474.04
150  TO    195      507    2.101       564         96,781,927.05       165.722.48
195 TO    210       684    2.831        840       140,964,498.25       167,814.88
210  TO    225    4,696   19.43%    5,678       1,065,849,717.63       187.715.70
SUB TOTAL                         7,299   30.19X    8,742       1,550.452,390.89       177,356.71
225  TO    240      165    0.681        198        39.271,575.67       198.341.29
240  TO    255      450    1.861        568       113.683.600.36       200.147.18
255  TO    270      827    3.42%    1,013         221,108,354.81       218,270.83
270  TO    285      939    3.881    1.172         265,056,939.00       226,157.80
285  TO    300      913    3.781    1,141         273,439,717.50       239,649.18
300  TO    315      677    2.80s        851       212,843,191.50       250,109.51
315  TO    330      509    2.111        633       167,148,727.00       264,058.02
330  TO    345      477    1.971        589       163,926,247.00       278,312.81
345  TO    360      510    2.111        634       183,729,637.86       289,794.38
360  TO    375    1,775    7.341    2,168         673,356,215.00       310,5a8.66
SUB TOTAL                         7,242   29.96x    8,967       2,313.564.205.70       258.008.72
TOTAL                            24.174             21.430      4.834.328,066.03       225.610.27
MUH TOTAL                        98,414            111.526    15.286.344,050.48        137.065.29



EGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF NORTGAGK TAIE-OUTS
JHULATIVN 1987-1992 (BASED ON LOAN VALUE)
iGION                 1987 CUm         1988 CUH   1988 INC.        1989 CUm       1989 INC      1990 CUm         1990 INC       1991 CUm         1991 INC      1992 CUM         1992 INC
1                 0.045           11.513         99.61%       43.899          73.77X        63.410            30.77l       80.253            20.99X        96.355            16.71X
2                  0.000          21.163        100.00        40.053         47.16%        61.151            34.501       89.701            31.83%       140.343            36.08a
3                  0.277          71.248         99.61X      276.208          74.20%       505.874            45.40%      826.457             38.79X   1.321.250             37.451
4                  4.179         332.015         98.741    1,318.300          74.81%   2.691.734              51.13%   4.757.133             43.29K   7.043.684              32.46K
5                  0.000            2.339       100.001        48.210         95.151        79.441            39.311       107.116            25.84%      132.632            19.24%
6                  1.072          20.145         94.681        71.376         71.781       139.988            49.011      212.536            34.131       293.072            27.48%
I                  0.000            2.383       100.00        29.B96         92.03%        61.340            51.26%       87.375            29.80O       191.845            54.46%
6                 0.000            0.945        100.001         7.122         86.73X        11.591            38.56X       23.833            51.37X        32.793            27.321
9                  0.000          10.304        100.00       30.651          66.38%        49.539            38.131       68.711            27.90X        93.585            26.581
10                  0.000            4.757       100.001       61.585          92.28%       131.953            53.33X      193.077            31.661       404.939            52.32X
11                  0.000           9.693        100.00       87.419          88.911       269.314            67.54%      591.326            54.46%   1.024.246              42.271
12                  0.000            1.407       100.001        16.059         91.241        34.638            53.641       61.553            43.731        78.883            21.971
NCR                 6.247         339.858         98.161    1.078.587           68.49%   1.977.728             45.46K   3.352.385              41.011   4.432.653             24.371
IAL                    11.819          827.770        98.571   3.109.365            73.381   6.083.701             48.89%  10,451.456              41.791  15.286.282             31.63X
:::    :::   ::::-   ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:::::::    :::::   :::-:::-::::    ::::   :



;IONAL DISTRIBUTION OF HORTGAGE TAKE-OUTS
IULATIVI 1987-1992 BASED ON NO. OF UNITS
ION                1987 CUm         1988 CUH   1988 INC.        1989 CUH      1989 INC      1990 CUH         1990 INC      1991 CUm         1991 INC      1992 CUH         1992 INC
I                      1             147        99.32%           473         68.92%          638            25.86%          774            17.57%          863            10.31%
2                      0             235       100.00%           546         56.96%           792           31.06%        1,047            24.36X        1,413            25.90%
3                      5           1.029        99.51%        3,444          70.12%        5,621            38.73%        7,943            29.23%       10,290            22.B1%
4                    42            2,881        98.54%       10,324          72.09%       18,519            44.25%       25,912            35.95%       38,693            25.28%
5                      0              47       100.00           683         93.12%        1,057            35.38%        1,434            26.29%        1,673            14.29%
6                     24             411        94.16%         1,125         63.47%         1.661           32.27%        2,083            20.26%        2,605            20.04%
7                      0              29       100.00           325         91.08%           601           45.92%           745           19.65%        1,180            36.61%
8                      0              12       100.00%            70         82.86%           103           32.04%           179           42.46%          241            25.73%
9                      0             134       100.00%           347         61.38%           490           29.18%           636           22.96%          833            23.65%
10                      0              44       100.00%           519         91.52%        1,093            52.52%        1,462            25.24%        2,779            47.39%
11                      0             108       100.00%           921         88.27%        2,496            63.10%        5,135            51.39%        7,971            35.58%
12                      0              13       100.00%           162         91.98%           332           51.20%           489           32.11X          618            20.87%
NCR                    48           2,354        97.99%         7,678         65.95%        14,040           45.31%       23.375            39.94%       29,235            20.03%
AL                       119           7,474         98.41%       26,617         71.92%        47,443           43.90%        74,220           36.05%        95,394           24.57%



- 41 -
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2974-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan title                                  Purpose                        approval   Status
Manila Urban Development Project Upgraded Tondo Foreshore and built Phase I of Dagat-    1976    completed
Ln. 1272/82-PH                Dagatan scrviced site project
Second Urban Development Project Extended serviced sites and upgrading to regional cities  1978    completed
Ln. 1647-PH
Third Urban Developmcnt Projcct   Expandcd slum upgrading in Mctro Manila                1980    completed
Ln. 1821-PH
Regional Cities Development Project Initiated a broad-based municipal developmcnt loan fund  1983    completed
Ln. 2257-PH



- 42 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Steps in project cycle      Date planned     Date actual
Identification                                  1984
Preparation                                   1985-1987
Appraisal                                      Aug-87
Negotiations                                   May-88
Board presentation                             Jun-88
Signing                                        Sep-88
Effectiveness                                  Dec-88
Project completion                    Jun-93            NA
Loan closing                          Jun-94          Apr-93
Table 3: Loan Disbursements (Cumulative)
FY88      FY89      FY90       FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95
Appraisal estimatc            0.0      38.5      80.9       88.4      110.7   141.5     155.0      160.0
Actual                       0.0       82.6     104.3      104.3      114.2   125.3 1   NA         NA
Actual as % of estimate               215%      129%,/0    118%      103%    89%         NA        NA
Cancellation                                                                  34.7       NA         NA
1/ Suspended December 31, 1992, and Cancellcd in April 1993.



- 43 -
Table 4: Kev Indicators for Proiect Implementation
NHMFC Average Loan
Affordability
Year           NHMFC lending, units       NHMFC average loan size            (percentile)
1988                  7,402                       110,242                       90th
1989                  19,143                      119,187
1990                  20,798                      143,011
1991                  26,777                      163,116                       45th
1992                  24,174                      200,001
Year          NHIMFC collections ratio    NHMFC debt-equity ratio       NHA debt-equity ratio
1988                   65%                    Recapitalized 3/
1989                   67%                          7.5
1990                   65%                         38.4                         0.4
1991                   74%                         47.0                         0.5
1992                   63%  1/                (negative equity)                 0.3
1993                   NA                           NA                          NA
1994                  61%  2/
1/ As of Octobcr 1992 (ycar to datc).
2/ As of mid-ycar (year to datc).
3/ First year following recapitalization. Debt negligible.



-44 -
Table 5a: Proiect Costs
A )praisal estimate                          Actual
Item                 Local costs  Foreign costs   Total     Local costs  Foreign costs   Total
Adjustment Component                        0.0         75.0          75.0          0.0         76.6         76.6
NHMFC mortgage purchases:
from NHA                                 31.5         13.5         45.0          NA           NA           NA
from pnvate sector                      140.0         60.0        200.0          NA           NA           NA
subtotal                                171.5         73.5        245.0        422.0        180.0        602.0
TA/training/studies                         2.5          2.5           5.0          2.0          0.0          2.0
TOTAL                                      174.0        151.0        325.0        424.0        256.6        680.6
Table 5b: Proiect Financing
A praisal estimatc                          Actual
SSS/GSIS
SSSIGSISI                               HDMff/
Item                   HDMF       World Bank      Total       OTHER      World Bank      Total
Adjustmnent Component                       0.0         75.0          75.0          0.0         76.6         76.6
NHI-IMC mortgage purchases:
from NHiA                                15.0         30.0         45.0                      _
from private scctor                     150.0         50.0        200.0
subtotal                                165.0         80.0        245.0        553.4         48.6        602.0
TAJtraining/studics                         0.0          5.0           5.0          2.0        0.0            2.0
TOTAL                                      165.0        160.0        325.0        555.4        125.2        680.6
accounting did not distinguish these categories
*  funding covered by Japanese Grant Fund
Mortgage Contracts from 1988-1992 estimated at appraisal to be P.5.0 billion (S245 million at 20.4 exchange rate).
Actual growth was P.15.1 billion (S602 million @ 25.1 exchange rate) or almost threc times that projected.



- 45 -
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant                                                                Status
Loan Agreement
3.02: The Borrower shall make available funding for TA and studies      Satisfactory
4.01: Govemment audit for TA, training, studies, and import component   Satisfactory
4.02: Maintenance of scctoral coordination mechanism                    Satisfactory
4.03: Provision of NHA rollover construction funds                      Satisfactory
4.03: Carrying out of Sector Policy and Action Plan                     Unsatisfactory
Sch5: Interest rate from Borrower to NHMFC as agreed with the Bank, 20  Satisfactory
years/5 yTS grace
Sch5: Relending by NHMFC to sub-borrowers at agreed interest rates      See Discussion
NHMIFC Project Agreement
2.04: Project beneficiaries shall be below the 70th percentile and shall comply  Satisfactory
with the agreed criteria
2.06: Mortgage purchascs from NHA will be carried out                   Satisfactory
2.08: NHMFC will raise collection levels to 95%                         Unsatisfactory
2.09: NHMFC will implemcnt an ARM policy with respcct to mortgages      Satisfactory
funded by variable rate funding
2.10: NHMFC will completc study of future funding                       Pcnding
2.11: NHMFC will carry out policy and action plan                       Unsatisfactorv
4.02: NHMFC shall eam a positive retum on equity starting 12/89         Unsatisfactory
4.03: NHMFC to maintain dcbt/equity of not over 20:1                    Unsatisfactory
4.03: N HMFC to maintain intemal cash generation of at least 1.1 times  Unsatisfactory
projected debt service
4.03: NHMFC to maintain positivc spread of at Ieast 2%                  Satisfactory
,NHA Project Agreement
2.01: NIA shall carry out Part B of project (construction to utilizc mortgage   Satisfactory
funding)
2.05: NHA shall carry out policy and institutional action plan on a timely basis  Satisfactory
4.01: Audit submitted                                                   Satisfactory
4.02: NHA shall eam a real return on equity starting FY 1993            NA
4.02: Profitability review by NHA due annually                          Unsatisfactory
4.02: Five-year projections twice annually                              Satisfactory
4.03: NHA shall maintain debt/equity ratio of not over 15:1             Satisfactory
4.03: NHA shall maintain internal cash generation of at least 1.1 times  Satisfactory
projected debt service



- 46 -
Table 7: Bank Resources
Stage                          Staffweeks        Dollars (000's)
Preparation                           107                  261
Appraisal                              28                   82
Negotiation                            22                   61
Supervision                           111                  290
ICR/evaluation                         18                   46
TOTAL                                 286                  740



- 47 -
Table 8                                                  Page 1 of 2
ACToN PLA
ATIOKAL Hi    f AGEFINJ   CORPOPATION
bsue                 AgreedAcdion        i       Reponaible      0                SS
Ag.ncy                         May 199           October I SW
1 LoLw Collecton    PArAtion Plan for improved           NHMFC        12131191     Se dsfec1ry           Unsatisfacory
Efriciency       collecions including individual-                             Plan receivd and CUP  No sued hired. JGF
i-son of CMP mongage and clear-                             individualic;in        funda elled. 3 eomputem
up of trde- on NHA properti_e wrdt                          to b.g.n-ith JGF       receivedony. Individudli-
propoal for ueof gram funds                                  a o-atanc.            zesion nos earted yet
US-Imoroved collection eftlclencv
Including interewt reajzzaions on
ar eam and from liquidaiona:
a. from 63% to 60%                NHMFC       12J31,S      -   Not ye,t due      Unsatisfectorty. 63% 10
b. from SO% to 96%                NHMFC       12/31193     -   Not yet due
2Z   LoasProviaions   #EAConfirmiaon of acceptable        NHMFC       12t31191
provisioning met?rodoloov involving:
(a) apeciricprovrsion based on                              (a) Satisfactorv      (a) Unsatisfactory
ageingof arream (10% for MCRs&                               Acceptedbyine         Bord approvedpolicy not
itm. in lit wlnean from 12-24mo;                             Board 12191           being appied. 1% specific
20% for MCR. & items in lit over 24                                                proviaion/3.7% IL v2
rmo & for acquired asaete). plue
(b) general provision comm-n-urate                          fbl G-nerel Provision   (b) Unausfactorv
WYtl aseesed risks of botih general                          orlnciols *cceotd       -dI lie el '  1%
porsolio and ary uncleseifeid                                eca level belew 1%S  (stil 0i5% an of 6192
ase. but not lesathan 1%. Review ot                         (0.5% as of 4/92
provisions Ad least annualty.
EB.Establishment el an sppmpriopn    NHlMFC     I2 13191
level of iae prov%iaon at
P131 m aoecrfic provision for                                Accepted _ith Deficienciev
aa-am revewed 91l                                     5pecific provision OK tor Follo IIU   Folio U dropped
none for Folbo i CMP or Development   to 1%  but added
ILara Peoivrabewhich toger totl      FoGo L CMAP, and
P1.6b o 11% of totel asset,and       DLR pctreoof
porton& of which can be analyzed.    1% eech; L - 3.7%
P2X0 mn 2% general orovision                                 -General Proviaion - 0.5% vs. 2% r   -  Guwal PMie021%
until P1.lSb aolt t                      Not done.-   12191 Statemeitall to be finalizd  d aol 691
can be analyzed per above                             to increase -   ni figure. Cto r.
motodology(then 1%)                                   Aleo portbond wrong with Folio .      not y  ooId
P331 m Total required                                      -Tot  established- P172 SpeuAc         P 189 spet'"'am
P Se General        P 68 geel-w GM
P228 Total (69%)    P 275 Total
(P.5A4l16AF1I,>4PJLR
and It- - 1.% oA4
#C-Appropneleaccountrngtreetment   NHMFC        12131/91     Stimfcsorv                           Saoefactor.
of both provisions (net trm groaioas)
3   Ttanse of         #A-Comoletetransler of Folio I      HOMF and   12t31/91      65% Satisfacory (3.74/4.4 - _5%)     a7% StIactory
Folio I                                              NHIMFC                   Balance to be tebooked by NHMFC      (351 4.417 - 37.3%)
#&oPostundisrrbu?ed collections    NHMFC         31142        -  Not yet due                     ULhnI  tqryLtUdb
in NHMVFCabaIancesh*et                                                                                 ---frornP1.3b
to PI *    No r ' Ri Wdn



- 48 -
Table 8                                                  .a: e  2  of  2
ACTION f1A
N.TXONAL HOME iRTGAGE F?4,MCE COF'ORPATON
I.3ue                Agre,C&Acion                Reaponsible    Daie              StETUz                Staua
Agency                          May 192              Ocotbsr1192
*C-Cornpiete o   -rentof reciorocal    HDMF and   6/30a2     -   Not yet du.       Unsenrfactowy
balances between -10MF and SHMFC. NHMFC
end rebook arry lcc not tranferred
4.  Income            IA-Adoption and -Ilementation of a
Rtecognifon     satisectory incoan-  cocnition (non-
eccruall Poiicy inc  :no backing out
oi all income reZ - :-d to da aon
loan. in aream n- -< foilo-inq
number of monrrs:
-      24 mor   s, y 12/3191        NHMFC       12131/91     Satisfacorv           Sszlaciorv
-      18 morin : y l311s2          NHMFC       1/3122       -   Not yet due       Reoorted Satfafactorv (canzV confirm)
10 mon.3 .y 1V31/S          NHMFC       1I31/S3      -   Not yet due        -   Not yet due
5.   Spread           #A-Increase of 2 ti--- in NHMFC's    NHMFC      12131/91     Satisfactoa"Exc*aded   7ochn,calfv Sederactory
portion of sprea.r .Dr.sandngan                              (a) adddS poirrt3/S2  Ho..  d *p,eadi. not
incraseefrom 2.6% :o 2.85%-3.C%                              (b) retin.d 1% commtmt aes f .dequit-to remain
by developerm- 0.5% aprox profitabe da preanti .vi
Total increae- 1 .I%7    of aerraruge
addedto 1.9% -3      .6%
or 60%-9C9 increa
*EB-Rev.eeof Pro  :~:v and          NHMFC       632               Not yet due      UnstiedaorvSprfadi. notmtaiaf
further adjua-nz.riha z s:read                                                     pro'rtabilrty At pwrrt  -e.e f
-hen 10 mocrths intoduced
a    C.aPia           Furmor r;rowtn corn .nodwrth
Deficiency       backing out of Incc-, recogniz.don
ianeA in srreet fror- :'S2.13
will bring NHMFC'a .aai Into                                                       Capta] at 3A vs. 5% required.
defkiencyduring I-;3Z Aggresaive                                                   Now dubiouewhater r.capitel:ton
col.dion vill help  e:to:e aome                                                    is CdvM Lbb*
retained amnings. ba: 'U._r
capktafiion will b- needd.
#A-Preparudon of a DIan for         NHMFC       12Al1ft9     Token Plen Pece-ved       Status Unchanged
ceprai Increse                                               subatance to b- doan w-Uh
by next adminieuaOon
J8.Approva of. an i-i-'esemn       Congrs       12=1j2       -   Not yet due           Statu3 Unchanoed
authoerzed copital
JC-Su-o.an.ionof ;7- J-^dof         COF         12=1=t2      Satelifatov               Srti-ftcIory
NHMFC when ca.r_ . c-iicient
until restored to *L-eactory
levels
7.   Segulawory       #A-Go-emmentto , -,- a              DOF/CB      12V1 11     Saed!facorv               Ouasi-Satifactory
Ov-rsight        reoulatory bodvior ;-UFC                                     first inspectiontook place2192 fine] report notysa.iuod1092
B.  Tr-atment of     Recognrzes- sened                   NHMFC        1A1t1Z       Sctirfiactor              S.ri-actory
Subaidyincome
ACTIONP.NHM






IMAGING
Report No:       15810
Type: PCR



