Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I.Al Zq -7 Lt_ 
Report No. 6997-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
June 1, 1988
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Ths document has a resicted ditibuton and may be used by redpiens only in the performance of
their offici dutes. Its contents may not otewise be dicosed wikhot Wodd Bank authorrUtiDon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Peso
1 Peso                 US$ 0.049
US$l              -    P 20.4
WEIGHTS AnD  NEASUR
1 meter (m)                  -    39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)        -    10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)             -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  -    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               -    10,000 square meters (sq m) or
2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB . ..  ... Asian Development Bank
ARNM.............adjustable rate mortgage
BB........... ..Builder's Bricks Development Corporation
BDC.... ,, ...... Bliss Development Corporation
CIAP ............ Construction Industry Association of the Philippines
COA ......, ..... Comzilm*ion on Audit
DBM .... .......Department of Budget and Management
BP ........... ..Development Bank of the Philippines
DOF.    ...,.... Department of Finance
DPWH .... Department of Public Works and Highways
EO    .     .... Executive Order
GNP .... .... Gross National Product
GDP    .     ...Gross Domestic Product
GSIS ...        Government Social Insurance System
HDMF   .      .. Home Development Mutual Fund
HFC ...         Housing Finance Corporation
HIGC........... Home Insurance Guaranty Corporation
HLURB ......      Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board
HSDC ........... Human Settlements Development Corporation
HSRC ........... Human Settlements Regulatory Commission
HUDCC ......... Housing and Urban Development Coordinating Council
IBRD .. .... ...... International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MCR .... .... mortgage contract receivable
MHS ...         Ministry of Human Settlements
MMC ............. Metro Manila Commission
NEDA .......,.National Economic and Development Authority
NHA. ....National Housing Authority
NHC ...National Housing Corporation
NHMFC .National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
Pag-IBIG .Forced Savings Provident Fund administered by HDMP
SIR ....Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program of NHA
SSS .           Social Security System
W ...Woodwaste Development Corporation
JISCAL er
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCL4L USE ONLY
ROUSING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APRAIML  EPORT
Table of Contents
Page N!o-,
LOAN AND PROJECT SUWARY
I.   SECTOR CNE
A.  Background .......................... ......... .1
B. Housing Stock and Conditions .............................  2
C. Past Policy and Issues ...................................  2
D. Rationalization Plan and Future Policy ...................  7
S. Bank Strategy and Project  Rationale ......................  9
P. Project Origin and  Preparaion...........................  11
II. S CTOL. ZNIIXUIZINS
A. National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHC).......  12
D. National Housing Authority (HA) .........................  21
C. The Social Insurance System ................................ . .  29
- Rome Development Mutual Fund (HDMF) ............ .....  29
- Social Security System (S8) ...................... .   31
- Government Service Insurance System (GSIs) ..........  32
D. Coordination (HUDCC) .................................    32
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Desoription...............................  34
B. Cost, Financing Plan and Onlending.......................  36
C. Implementation ..................................   39
D. Procurement .........................................    40
z. Disbursement .............. *,.#   ...,...*...  ..   41
F. Accounts, Audit and Reporting ....... .. ............   41
IV.  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS..................X............ ........  43
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM         ATIgMS........................   46
This report is bamed on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Nesdms/Nessrs. D. Haldane (Head of Nission), A. Van Vugt (financial analyst),
L. Xejia (computer specialist), and X. Bueno (banking consultant) which
visited manila in August/September, 1987. Mr. J. Kearns /consultant) assis-
ted in project development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performa
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwie be disclosed without Wotid 3at-k autheizationt.



Page -so,
ANNES
1.    Seetoral  Policy ................................................... 49
2.  Executive Order Number 90 ................................... .     55
3.  Housing Demand and Affordability .............................   63
4.  Sectoral Investment Plan (1980--1992)                       .... 67
5.  Sectoral Action Plan  .       .................................. .  71
6. Disbursement Schedule           ................................................. .   75
7.  Technical Assistance, Trainlng, Equipment and Studies ........ 79
8.  Inflation and Interest Rates .................................      85
9. NHMFC                .        .       ................ 89
10.  NHDFC Policy/Operating Guidelines and Action Plan ............ 101
11.  NHMFC Financial Statements (1980 - 2006)
A. Income Statement and Ratios ............................ 113
B. Balance Sheet and Ratios ............................... 116
C. Cash Flow Statement         .................... . 121
D. Key Assumptions ....................   ................   122
12.  NHH..............................  123
13.  NA Policy Statement and Action Plan ......................... 135
14.  NHA Financial Statements (1980 - 2006)
A. Income Statement and Ratios ............................    151
B. Balance Sheet and Ratios ...............................    154
C. Cash Flow Statement         . .......... .................... 159
D.  Key  Assumptions  ............................................  .  160
15. Economic Rate of Return                                 ..... 161
16.  Selected Documents Available on the Project File         ...  163
CHARTS
Sectoral Organization Chart
A. Former (41000).         . .. . . . . .... . . . . . ...     165
B. Proposed (40494) ...............        ......... ..... 167
1UDCC Organization Chart (40054) ............................. 169
NMFC Organization Chart (31135) ............................. 171
NHA Organization Chart (40053)        ................... 173



PHILIPPINES1
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of the Philippines.
Beneficiary   National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC), and  the
Agencies:     National Housing Authority (NHA).
Loan Amount:  US$l1(O million equivalent.
Loan Terms:   Standard variable interest rate and 23 year term including 5
years of grace.
On-lending    The Government of the  Philippines  would on-lend the peso
Terms:        equivalent of US$80 million to NHMFC for mortgage financing at
terms of 20 years and a fixed rate to be agreed annually with
the Bank, linked to a proxy for long term funds. GOP will bear
the foreign exchange risk. Funding will be blended with fixed
rate loans from the Social Insurance System. Onlending from
NHMFC to sub-borrowers for mortgage loans would range from a
fixed rate of 9% to 15% for up to 25 years depending on loan
amount. The US$5 million for technical assistance, training,
equipment and studies would be mads available by Government to
the participating agencies on terms agreed with the Bank.
Project       Key objectives include (a) improvement in the institutional
Description:  framework,  (b) greater efficiency in the use of public
resources, (c) housing stock expansion for lower income groups,
and (d) elimination of key bottlenecks to recovery in the
construction industry. The project would comprise: (a) support
for immediate imports of construction materials to initiate
subdivision development, (b) a time-slice of NHMFC's mortgage
investment program, and (c) associated technical assistance,
training, equipment and studies.
Benefits: (a) about 54,000 units added to housing stock, of which nearly
three quarters would serve those below the poverty line;
(b) 9,000 existing dwellings upgraded with utilitias, secure tenure
and essential community facilities;
(c) approximately 120,000 person years of employment generated
through direct constrvuction associated with mortgage purchases,
plus an unquantified additional impact through secondary
linkages.
Rate of       Serviced sites: Metro Manila ..... 27%
Return:                        Regional Cities .... 28%
Upgrading:       Metro Mail............ 31%
Regional Cities .... 37%



Project       The primary risk Is that such a broad and complex set of
Rasks:        reforms will prove difficult to acutally lmplement and could be
derailed by political concerns, delayed or stagnate altogether.
However, prdSress to date has been promising. Other risks
Include: (a) low collection levels which would necessitate an
Increase in Interest rates, (b) convincing private developers
of the profitability of low-cost mass housing whilch in turn
depends on high turnover rates on capital and thus NMFSC's
processing efficiency and (c) NHA's ability to reduce costs and
standards, and telescope land acquisition, site development and
sales, all of which are now required before units can be
purchased by NUfFC. An ambitious institutional strengthening
program as part of the project will help address these
concerns. The NRA now owns a third of the required land,
sufficient for the first 18 months.   These risks have been
taken Into account In designing the project and measures
Introduced to mbwiimze potential adverse impacts whereever
possible. The project's benefits are considered to outweigh Its
inherent risks.
Estimated                                         local    Foreign    Total
Costs:                                       ---- --- US$ millon --------
Building Materials Imports           0        75.0      75.0
NUMFO   Mortgage  Purchases:     171.S        Z3LS 245.0
- NUA:  Upgrading              14.4         6.1      20.5
Serviced Sites        17.1        7.4       24.5
- Private Developers          140.0       60.0      200.0
TA/Training/Eqpmt/Studies          2.5         2.5       5.0
ZOTAL  a/                 174.0       11.0 i=L2
a/ Costs include, taxes esatimated at US$12.5 million or 3.,%
Financing                                         Local    Foreign     Total
Plan:                                        ---------- US$ million ---------
Social Insurance System          155.0       10.0      165.0
World Bank                        19.0      141.0      160.0
ZQZ&L                     174.0     151.0       32S.0
Estimated                            FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Disbursements:                        -------------------------__-_-_-_
Annual (US$ a)         38.5  42.4   7.5  22.3  30.8  13.5   5.0
Cumulative (US$ m)     38.5  80.9  88.4 110.7 141.5 155.0 160.0



PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
I. 8XCTORAL CQN=
A. Backround
1.1        Urbanization and Ecgnomic Growth.  The Philippines is relatively
urbanized with about 40% of the total population or 23 million people
residing in cities. The urban population expanded by about 4% annually
from 1960-1980, almost 50% faster than the 2.7% national average. A third
of all urban residents is concentrated in Manila, with an estimated   7
million people. This pace of expansion is   expected   to   decline   only
modestly, requiring the country to house, feed and employ another 10 million
urban residents -- tantamount to creating another metropolis the sire of
Man'la -- over the next decade.  Even with  successful  regional development
efforts, much of this Increase will occur in the capital, which generates
over 40% of the country's GDP.
1.2       Growth  of  this  magnitude  will  place  tremendous  strains  on
the country's ability to provide  the  requisite employment, housing, and
urban services.   Rapid economic recovery will be needed to meet these
demands. The economic and financial crisis which gripped the country from
1983-1986 largely paralyzed industrial expansion and severely eroded GNP
gains made during the 1970's.   Real GNP declined by 6.8% and 3.8%
respectively In 1984 and 1985, with industrial growth declining by more
than twice this rate. Growth in 1986 was negligible (0.1%). Underemployment
doubled to an estimated 60% in 1985, and real wages have shrunk. However,
the beginnings of recovery were evident In 1987 when GNP growth registered
5.7%. About half (51%) of the 1987 urban population fell below the poverty
threshold of about P6,120 (US$3')0) per capita per annum, and about 20%
below the subsistence threshold of F3,0o0 (US$150).
1.3        Economic Role of Housing.   The   housing and construction
industries were heavily hit by the extended crisis. Housing constitutes a
small but growing rroportion of GNP (about 3.7%),   and  a somewhat  more
significant share of fixed domestic capital formation, estimated at about
15%. Nearly   60%   of   Philippine   formal  private   sector construction
activity is in housing, which was the fastest growing industrial subsector
(gross value up by 14.4% and value added by 6.1%) in 1982. Housing starts
are closely monitored in the  Philippines  as  elsewhere,   as   a   lead
indicator of improving or decelerating economic activity, since the
industry's forward and backward linkages are extensive. The P12.1 billion
invested   in formally built housing and service improvements from   1980
through mid-1984 contribute4 approximately 75,000 direct jobs over this
period, net of any secondary linkages. Informal construction   activities
which still accommodate the majority of the population contributed many
more. Mousing thus plays a dual role   as   both   a   major industrial
subsector, as well as a key social and political concern.



- 2-
B. Housing Stock and Conditiog
1.4        Growth of new housing stock has not kept pace with the rapid urban
increase. New stock needed to accommodate urban growth alone averaged about
114,000 units per annum from 1976-1981 and effective demand about 97,000
annually. Supply through public assistance averaged 13,000 units or about
ll%-13%. Clearly private and informal efforts were still housing most people
in uncontrolled squatter settlements lacking effective planning, tenure and
services. Publicly assisted production rose in the early 1980's to a peak of
29,000 units in 1984 or about 20% of growth needs, and a quarter of effective
demand, demonstrating progress toward achieving a better match between supply
and demand. Most of these units were built by private developers and financed
through public institutlons.   Thereafter, the economic downturn brought a
sharp decline in housing production leaving the industry largely stagnant in
1986.
1.5       Private production under the expanding financial system, however,
was heavily skewed toward higher-income groups. Though direct production by
NHA was targeted on the poor, the Authority focused on upgrading and
associated resettlement schemes which made almost no net contribution to new
housing stock. Of the 167,000 new units added to housing stock through public
assistance from 1976-1986, over 90% were completed, contractor-built
dwellings affordable only to the most affluent 10%-20%.   The balance 10%
served growth among the remaining 80% of the population. Thus demand in the
upper income strata was overserved and nearing market saturation, with the
bulk of demand for new housing below the 80th percentile largely ignored.
1.6        As a result, dosspite vastly improved conditions in many squatter
areas through upgrading, uncontrolled growth has not been curtailed.
Encroachment on prime commercia.l properties, illegal seizures of public land,
overcrowding and the resultant deterioration in living standards remain
serious and growing public concerns. Barong-barongs (shanties) tripled from
1970-1980 from 14,000 to nearly 50,000 units. Overcrowding was particularly
severe in Metro Manila where by 1980 nearly half of all families occupied a
single room.    The backlog  of dwellings  requiring upgrading  (including
unserviced homes) was estimated in the mid-1980's at about 440,000 units in
Metro Manila alone representing about a third of the city, and 700,000
nationally. Of these, only about 22,000 have been upgraded and 54,000
resettled over the last 5 years, addressing about 10% of need. At this pace
four more decades would be required to deal with the existing backlog.
1.7        To this must be added the approximately 140,000 new units needed
annually over the next five years to prevent further deterioration in present
conditions.  The urgent dual needs to speed upgrading and expand new mass
housing stock to slow or halt further uncontrolled growth forced the nev
Aquino Government in 1986 to reassess its housing strategy.
C. Past Policy and Issues
1.8        Policy and Institutions.  Government's past strategy for meeting
shelter needs initially emphasized direct public production of low cost
shelter combined with extensive squatter resettlement.   In 1975, the six



- 3 -
organizations producing housing in a rather ad-hoc and disjointed manner were
consolidated into the National Housing Authority (NHA) and its attached
agency, the National Housing Corporation (NHC) which produced building
materials. The NRA was assigned policy-making and regulatory functions, as
well as responsibility for housing production and finance, and, together with
NBC, represented the Government's sole housing instrument.
1.9       Three  years  later, the Ministry  of  Human  Settlements  (NHS)
was established to oversee policy and regult';ory functions, and seven new
agencies were chartered to perform five functions: financial Sourcing,
mortgage lending,  insurance, production and regulation.   The new policy
emphasis behind these changes was to stimulate private sector production
through provision of low cost housing finance. The MKS network included the
following institutions:
A. Financial Sourcing Functions
#1: Home Development Mutual Fund (HDMF). The HDMF or Pag-IBIG
ProvLdent Fund (essentially a mandatory payroll tax refundable to
employees) covered all formally employed persons. Proceeds were
earmarked for housing. About 98% of stipulated contributions were
initially lent to the NHNFC which in turn purchased mortgages
granted to HDMF members;
B. Mortgage Lending Functions
02: National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC). Designed
to provide liquidity to local banks holding mortgages through
establishment of a secondary mortgage market, the NHNFC over time
came to dominate mortgage financing on privately built units
(excluding those built by the Social Security System (SSS), the
Government Social Insurance System (GSIS), and the National
Housing Auithority (NHA)). NHMFC initially placed HDMF borrowings
in high yielding s'nort term investments, and utilized the proceeds
of bond issuances for mortgages purchased from originating
Institutions;
C. Insurance Functions
#3: Home Finance gorgoration (HFC) recently renamed the Housing
Investment Guaranty CorDoration (HIGC). The HIGC insured both
construction loans made by private banks to private builders, and
mortgages purchased by NHMFC or held by private banks. The
Corporation also expanded into land dealings and direct
production, provided advisory services to the builders it insured,
and operated a bank (Maunlad S & L) through which it arranged some
of the construction loans it underwrote;
D. Production Functions
(i) Land Development and Housing
#4: National Housing Authority (NWA). The NRA produced low
income housing through serviced sites for self-help house
construction, upgrading of existing slums, and resettlement
programs. It also engaged in industrial estates, workshop
development, small business lending and some higher cost
housing for cross-subsidy purposes. The Authority was
financed through Government budgetary appropriations,



-4-
foreign loans (prlncipally World Bauk and the Republic of
G"rmany), and local borrowings. NBA also extended long tierm
financing on the units it built, serviced these loans, and
operated rental estates;
#5: Bliss Development Corporation (Bc). Subsidized
completed housing and apartments were the primary output of
BDC,   financed   by   Government   appropriations   for
construction. Mortgages were sold to NWUNC, enablitg BDC
to roll over its construction funds;
(ii) Buildlna Materials
#6. Vqodwaste Comuanv (W).  This company produced wood
products for home construction;
#7: Builder's Bricks (BB). Bricks and masonry products
comprised BB's outputs;
*8: National Housing Corporation tNHC). The NBC produced
and warehoused building materials which were sold to
Government or the private sector, specializing In
prefabricated units for "flexi-homes";
#9: Human Settlements Develovment Corporation (HSDC). A
holding company for over 40 subtidiaries, iucluding BDC,
W, BB, and NEC within the housing sector.   The RSDC's
overall jurisdiction extended well beyond the sector; and
E. Regulatory Functions
#10: Human Settlements Regulatorv Commission (BBRC). The NSRC was
responsible for regulatory oversight of private builders coverLag
subdivision and building standards, land use and zoning;
1.10       Thus, in the decade following the amalgamation of the previous six
housing agencies in 1975, the sector once again grew from two corporations to
ten, plus a governing Xinistry. A Shelter Secretariat was eventually created
to coordinate this increasingly complex Institutional network, but without
budgetary or other authority, it remained a :lrgely coremonial function.
Chart 41000 presents the former sectoral organizatlon. Throughout this period
the Social Insurance System (SSS and GSIS) made substantial investments in
mortgages, financing half of new stock, but remained independent of the NES
system.
1.11       Private Sector Resoonse. The private sector's initial response to
Government's new policy and the expanded availability of mortgage finance
was predictably enthusiastic, resulting in spectacular growth between
1980 and 1983. Housing starts reportedly tripled from an annual level of
28,000 in the late 1970's to a   peak of 86,000 in 1983.   By mid-1984,
utilizing HDMF funds and other borrowings, the NHDEC had pumped nearly P5
billion (US$ 245 million) into mortgage financing.
1.12      Housing investments, like most others, sharply decelerated in 1984
and 1985 as the economic crisis deepened and borrowing costs soared to
over 40% with shortened maturi*ies. The sudden contraction left the industry



- 5 -
with a major inventory overhang and an extensive pipeline of both completed
units ready for mortgage takeouts and subdivisions under construction for
which funds were not available. The HI¢C was unable to meet its obligations
in the subsequent wave of construction loan defaults and claims. Construction
loans had to La carried by builders at prohibitive costs leaving the new
housing finance system's credibility badly shaken, and private builders and
bankers disillusioned.
1.13        Issues. By 1985 the Philippine housing sector was once again in
need of extensive adjustment to correct flaws emerging from its previous ten
years of operation. Key problems included:
(a) Functional DuNlication and Competition. The system contained a
number of functional duplications leading to competition between
public agencies and wlth the private sector, as well as nonessential
activities. Public resources were therefore inefficiently used or
supporting services which private business was fully capable of
delivering;
(b) Inadequate Vglume.   Despito substantial initial growth,  the new
housing finance system did not achieve the volume production of
housing stock needed to keep pace with growth and ease squatting
prcssures. This was due to several factors. First, unit costs were
high, constraining the number of units which could be financed.
Second, as conceived, Pag-IBIG trust funds were to provide a
liquidity pool for more extensive borrowings by NUMFC, thus
leveraging the system.  In reality, Pag-IBIG funds never exceeded
about a 1:1 ratio with other borrowings. Efforts were never made to
access the larger pools of long term investment funds ideally suited
to housing within the social insurance system (S8 and GS91), most
of which were utilized instead for hotels, airlines e.d other
commercial verttures;
(c) Riab Income Bias. Public housing investmeat under the new housing
finance system favorad those who needed it least. Of total sectoral
expenditures from 1976-1984, nearly two thirds were for units
affordable only to the most affluent 20% of urban families, with
only about a third for upgrading or serviced sites for the remaining
80% of the population. As noted above, formal additions to housing
stock have been almost exclusively at the high cost end of   the
market where formal private builders were active.' The NUEA's work
among lower income groups contributed to much improved squatter
conditions, but added almost nothing to existing stock. Thus the gap
has wideneS between demand for new housing stock and supply. The
financial system's high income bias   helped trigger widespread
dissatisfaction with Pag-IBIG during 1984-1985. The regressive
transfer of resources  from  low-income  wage   earners   to  high-
income    loan beneficiaries at subsidized interest rates became a
highly politicized issue, leading to a mounting clamor for Pag-IBIG
abolition or suspension (para. 2.50 and Annex 9);
(d) Inefficient Resource Use/Cost Recovery.   Cost recovery has been
inadequate on public sector housing investments, leading to the
decapitalization of key sftctoral institutions.   Interest rates,



- 6 -
pricing policies, sales and inventory management, collections
efficiency and failure to enforce sanctions have all contributed to
compounded   recovery of as little as 36% of amounts  invested.
Interest rate policies presented apparent incongruities to the
public, with NHA lending to the poorest families at 12%, NHUFC to
the most affluent at 9%, and GSIS and SSS to those in between at 6%.
Both capite aud financial (interest rate) subsidies have been
applied, c-con In an opaque and ad-hoc manner without any  clear
governing  rationale.  As  a  result,   subsidies often beneflted
the more affluent.   Even where policy was correct,  agencies
periodically ignore internal policy when subjected to political or
affordability pressures. The inability or unwillingness of NHA to
finalize mortgage documentation on upgraded sites or evict
undocumented serviced site residents has been a key cause of the
Authority's  low corporate  receipts.         However,  collections
performance is equally low (in the order of perhaps 60%) for all
sectoral institutions, including NHHFC,, GSIS and SSS, r6gardless of
the nature of their clientele, in large measure because
administration is weak and sanctions almost never enforced.
(e) NHA/NHMWC Cooperation. Perhaps the most disappointing feature
of the .%hilippine shelter system has been the lack of cooperation
between its   production   and   financial arms.   The   two key
institutions  -- NHA and NHIFC -- never established a mortgage
purchase program for low cost units (serviced sites and upgrading),
despite their obvious   need   for   one    another    and   the
considerable potential synergy  of such joint endeavors.   As   a
result, as noted above the financial system has served almost
exclusively higher-income groups while NHA has served low-income
groups through reliance on foreign borrowings and government equity
infusions, without benefit  of  access   to the most significant
source of domestic housing finance the country has yet created
--the Pag-IBIG Provident Fund.  Ironically, the Fund's failure to
establish such a link and effectively serve its lower income
contributors was a major cause of the public disaffection which led
to its ultimate demise;
(f) NHMFC's Viability. NHMFC incurred substantial operating losses in
recent years as a result of a negative spread and poor collection
efficiency and must be restored to profitability if Government's
strategy   of achieving significant private participation in masa
housing production is to work. Chapter II (paras. 2.9-2.18) and
Annex 9 outline details of NHMFC's financial problems;
(g) Insurance Liabilities (HFC). Finally, the HFC was undercapitalized
for the volume of insurance issued, and significantly underpriced
its riskiest product-construction loan insurance.   The crisis of
1983 triggered calls on HFC insurance well in excess of available
capital. Insurance of NHMFC's mortgages had the further effect of
lulling the NHNFC into relaxed collection performance, since the
ultimate risk lay with HFC, to whom units in default were assigned.
To date, HFC has not completed any foreclosure, sale and account
closures. Thus there has been a significant buildup of contingent
liability by Government through undercapitalized and underpriced



- 7 -
insurance schemes on both mortgage payments ari high risk ventures
such as construction lending in which the ultimate profit accrues to
the private builder and the ultimate liability and risk to the
Government.
D. Rationalization Plan and Future Policy
1.14      A Rationalization  Plan was formulated by the new Government with
Bank assistance during 1986 to address the problems outlined above.   The
housing sector reform program comprises essentially three parts: (i) the
overall institutional framework and mandates, (ii) sectoral policy, and (iii)
individual institutional policies, programs and action plans.   The latter
logically flows from the former two. Government has now achieved major
progress through Executive Order (EO) 90 in rationalizing the sectoral
institutional structure, dealing with the difficult issue of functional
duplication and competition (para 1.15).   A broad strategy has been
identified for improving both volume production and the past high income
beneficiary bias. Government's statement of sectoral policy was agreed at
Negotiations, (Annex 1). In the third sphere, NHA and NHMFC bhve prepared
policy statements and associated institutional action plans, which were
finalized at Negotiations.   Parallel steps have been taken to improve the
construction industry's efficiency and a further review of current
bottlenecks is underway.   Agreement has been reached with Government
regarding eventual privatization of HFC's construction and mortgage insurance
functions under the Public Corporate Sector Loan being processed parallel to
this one.   Discussions are underway on a possible private consortium of
insurance companies to undertake this role in the future. Arrangements under
this project will help establish direct long term programmatic links between
NRA and NHMFC. Actions already taken or proposed by Government on sectoral
reforms are summarized in Annex 5. Chart 40494 presents the sectoral
organization adopted under the Plan.
1.15        On December 17, 1986 Executive Order 90 on the Housing Sector
Rationalization was signed into law by President Aquino, and in early 1987
the Ministry of Human Settlements was abolished.    The EO outlined sector
goals of low/middle income urban focus, and greater private sector
participation in mass housing. It established Government's key institutions
in the sector and changes in their mandates to reduce functional duplications
among public agencies, and to terminate both extraneous activities and
competition with the private sector. The NHMFC was continued as Government's
primary mortgage institution, NHA as its sole producer, and HSRC as the sole
regulatory body.   Both SSS and GSIS  were to provide long term loans to
NHNFC,  terminating their own mortgage lending programs.         The Pag-IBIG
Provident Fund was made voluntary. Divestiture of RSDC's production
subsidiaries of BDC, NHC, VW and BB was _.irected, as well as termination of
HFC's advisory, production and banking activities.   Agreement was reached
at Negotiations on the appointment of a conservator for BDC and legal
assignment to the appropriate body for sale.   Henceforth, NHMFC plans to
undertake "self-insurance" on mortgages through introduction of adequate loan
loss provisions.    Separate boards were retained  for all  surviving
corporations to preserve and protect their distinct interests. Thus a strong
integrating mechanism was needed to counter the centrifugal force of the
separate boards and the sector's longstanding history of dissonance, and to



- 8 -
ensure conformance to sectoral policy and objectives. For this purpose the
Housing and Urban Development Council (RUDCC) was established, with a
professional Secretariat. Membership of HUDCC is presented in para 2.67. Its
Chairman was assigned authority over individual institutions (NHA, NUXYC,
HIOC and HLURB) as Board Chairman.
1.16        Though the Executive Order renamed HFC the Housing Investment
Guaranty Corporation (HIGC) and provides for its continuance and
recapitalization, agreement was reached in principle with Government under
the parallel Public Corporate Sector Loan to privatize the Corporation.
This addresses issue (g) para 1.13 above.  Final signature on the sale of
Naunlad S&L, a subsidiary of HIGC, is expected in Jlune, 1988.
1.17       'hus while EO 90 dealt reasonably successfully with the complex
problems of functional duplication and competition ((a) above), and set an
appropriate broad framework on sector policy and objectives, it left to the
new HUDCC Council and surviving institutions the design of the important
operational details of botl sectoral policy and individual agency strategies
to address the five emaining issues (b,c,d,e,and f) outlined in para. 1.13.
1.18      Key  elements of Government's new housing policy were contained in
the November, '.986 Six Year Development Plan issued by the National Economic
and Development Authority (NEDA). The Plan acknowledged that private sector
initiative must be harnessed, since the Philipplne   population cannot be
housed exclusively through funding from public revenues, and that only
through combined public/private efforts could the problem of inadequate
production volume be addressed.   The basic thrust of Government's policy,
maximizing private production of new stock through financial intermediation,
is therefore not expected to change in the second half of the decade.
However incentives and controls will be introduced to redirect private
production to lower income groups.   Increased amounts of mortgage finance
will be available at lower-cost ranges, and funding will be restricted at
higler cost levels (Annex 10). Direct public production will be expanded for
slum upgrading and serviced sites for the poorest half of the population that
private builders are not expected to service; some resettlement will be
continued.   Policies to impr--"e the efficiency of resource use and cost
recovery (issue (d) para 1.13 above) for the individual agencies are being
developed under this project though individual agency Policy Statements and
Institutional Action Plans, and long-term programmatic interlinkages between
the NHA and NHMNC will be established through the project's lending
mechanism.   Over the longer term, NUNYC will also need to explora other
sources of financing to supplement SSS and GSIS.   This will be handled
through a study to explore mechanisms to attract private finance into
mortgages and develop the commensurate mortgage instruments needed for NHMFC
to remain viable while utilizing variable rate borrowings. A major objective
of the project is to explore variable rate instruments and develop the
computer capacity to manage this instrument.    The issues of developing a
strategy for volume production affordable to an acceptable beneficiary
profile (issues (b) and (c) para 1.13) are addressed in the Sectoral Policy
Statement summarized in Annez 1, which was agreed at Negotiations. A
coverletter was also provided by Government on its housing sector policy
documents.



-9-
1.19        In early 1987 HUDCC was established, its Chairman named, and a
professional Secretariat of 12 appointed.   The Council meets monthly to
address pressing operational problems and issues, matters touching on
sectoral policy, and to facilitate daily coordination among its members.
Paras 2.67-2.69 describe HUDCC membership and operations.
1.20         Major progress has been made by NIWYC and NRA in resolving
individual institutional issues.  By March, 1987 NHiFC had prepared a new
Business Plan, including its revised Policy Statement and Action Plan (Annex
10) addressing Issue (f), and by midyear it had been recapitalized and past
losses written off (para 2.22).  While selected policy issues remain under
discussion (Annex 10), the new Plan offers a promising framework to restore
NHMFC's viability as well as to redress the financial system's high income
bias.   Similarly, the NHA has prepared its Policy Statement including a
revised pricing policy, and Institutional Action Plan (Annex 13). Chapter II
elaborates on recent actions taken by both agencies.
1.21      More gradual, but parallel progress is also evident in addressing
key bottlenecks in the construction industry.  The dialogue which followed
the 1982 Bank-financed Construction Industry Study eventually led to (a)
greater delegation to Departmental Secretaries and the governing Boards or
agencies of approval authc :ity for contract awards, with approval ceilings
revised upward in March, 1987; (b) establishment of an ' bitration body to
mediate industry disputes; and (c) streamlining of *ontract payment
procedures. Establishment of a data bank for planning and operational
purposes is currently underway, financed under the Bank's Fifth Highway loan
(2418-PH), as well as a training program for executives of small and medium
alzed construction companies. Government is currently reviewing further
potential bottlenecks to the housing contracting industry's recovery,
including poten-ial financing and equipment shortages (see para. 3.2).
E. Bani Strategy and Project Rationale
1.22       Experience and Strategy. The Bank has helped finance four
demonstration projects over the last decade to establish the acceptability of
lower cost approaches involving slum upgrading and serviced sites.   These
operations focused almost exclusively on the National Housing Authority. The
first and second projects (Loans 1272-T/1282-1-PH and 1647-PH) have been
completed and Project Completion Reports were issued in April 1986, and
February, 1987 respectively.  The two completed PCR reports concluded that
both projects were quite successful in achieving their basic objective of
demonstrating the social acceptability of low cost, self help approaches,
but encountered serious delays and difficulties In the pricing, sales
documentation, and cost recovery of units built. The Third Urban Development
Project (Loan 1821-PH) and Regional Cities Development Project (Loan 2257-PH)
contained shelter components which expanded regional operations and
experimented with private sector production of serviced sites.   Ezperience
under these latter projects has provided valuable lessons in handling private
low cost mortgages and highlighted problems inherent in complex cross-
subsidies. Simpler, clearer policies and tighter management of cost recovery
are needed in future to ensure replicability of these demonstrations.



- 10 -
1.23      Having thus established the acceptability of low cost approaches,
the Bank must now address the challenge of volume production.   To do so
requires first addressing  the  sector's  structural  issues.    Significant
reforms in the institutional and policy framework are required to structure
the sector in a manner where future investment can be productive.   The
insular nature of the institutional setup established by the MRS needs
reworking to fit more sensibly into the overall Philippine financial sector
and the economy.   Improved specialization is also needed by individual
institutions, as well as operational links between institutions both within
the sector and with outside financial entities.
1.24         The Bank's long term goal is the development of an equitable,
viable, housing finance and production system, with an increasing degree of
privatization.   The first step will involve rationalization of the public
sector's role,  institutions  and policy,  and privatization of  low  cost
production as well as ins rance. Steps will be taken under this project to
develop an adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) policy for NHMFC and develop the
computerized internal systems needed to manage ARMS.   Once these are in
place, subsequent projects could focus on a strategy to privatize housing
finance and enhance the role of local banks.   Future Bank assistance will
therefore move away from production-oriented, site specific demonstration
projects toward structural sectoral reform, and time-slice program support
through financial intermediaries.   This would be the Bank's first housing
operation through a financial intermediary in the Philippines.
1.25      Prolect Pationale.   The   rationalization   and reform program
described above is the result of a collaborative effort between the new
Govervment and the Bank.  Continued Bank involvement will help sustain the
momentum of the reforms, and will further help ensure that the lesson& of the
last decade's experience in the Philippines as well as experience elsewhere
is brought to bear on the critical implementation phase of the program which
is just beginning.
1.26       The  project  fits  well  into  the  Bank's overall strategy of
revitalizing economic growth and rationalizing the public/private interface,
and specifically the role of public corporations.   Bank involvement in the
sector at this juncture would support Government's macroeconomic objectives
and economic recovery efforts by:
(a) stimulating the housing construction industry, and thus the domestic
economy!
(b) continuing the rationalization of government financial institutions
in the field of housing finance, with restored financial viability
and inproved efficiency; and
(c) reducing public expenditures through privatization/divestiture of
five public corporations, tightened pricing policies, and
elimination of NHMFC's negative spread.



v 11 -
F. Project Origin and Preparation
1.27       Sector work  took  place in the early 1980's following five years
of lending operations from 1975 to 1980. The Bank produced one Country
Study on the Financial Sector (1980) and two reports on Housing Finance (No.
3732-PH and an internal report of May, 1983).   A Shelter  Assessment was
prepared by USAID in 1984.   Late the same year, Government completed its
first five year National Shelter Plan (NSP). Wide-ranging discussions took
place throughout 1985 regarding the findings and recommendations of these
reports, leading to the formulation of a Rationalization Plan by the new
Government in 1986, on which the project is premised. Folloving approval in
December, 1986 of the basic institutional framework, work was begun on sector
policy and preparation of individual agency policies, investment plans and
action plans as well as the investment program which forms the basis of the
proposed project.   The NHA, NHNFC and HUDCC prepared the project,  with
contributions from HIGC and others.



- 12 -
II. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
A. National Home Nortgfage Finance Corporation (NHMFC)
Backgmround. Organization and Management
2.1       The National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) is a public
corporation established in 1979 under Presidential Decree (PD) 1267 of
December, 1977 for the development and operation of a secondary market for
residential mortgages in the Philippines.   NMWYC makes forward purchase
commitments to buy up to a specified amount of mortgages from private and
government banks accredited by the Corporation in accordance with prescribed
standards. Under its initial operating plan, ULWAC was to act as trustee for
HDMF (Pag-IBIG) funds which were not to be placed in mortgages, but in other
investments to be used to generate profits for cross-subsidies, and as a
liquidity reserve for NHNFC borrowings.   These borrowings were to finance
mortgage purchases. The Housing Finance Corporation (HFC), recently renamed
the Housing Insurance Guaranty Corporation (HIOC), Insured NHNFC's mortgages
agalnst cash flow interruptions and/or default. Eventually mortgages were to
be securitized and sold in the Philippine capital market.   Private and
government banks participate in the housing finance system through mortgage
loan orlgination, loan servicing, and provision of construction
(developmental)  loans.   The NHNFC was therefore intended to complement
private banking activity in housing finance, providing a liquidity mechanism
which was to make long-term mortgage investment more attractive.   Though
NHMFC was meant to be eventually privatized, to date this has not occurred.
2.2       Government banks have dominated NHMFC loan originations, accounting
for 45% of all units financed and 41% by volume of financing.    The
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) was by far the most active single
bank, representing 42% of all units funded and 38% of amounts lent.  Thus,
private banks originated and serviced only a little over half of NIIMC's
portfolio. For loan origination, banks were paid 3%.
2.3       The NHNFC functions under the guidance of a Board tf Directors, the
composition of which is given in Annex 10. The Corporation has recently been
reorganized and placed under the Office of the President.    It is now
structured around 13 Departments reporting to five Group managers: Finance,
Mortgage Management, Credit and Collections, Treasury and Legal
Administration.       Three   of  these  Groups   (Mortgage  Management,
Credit/Collections, and Treasury) report to the Senior Vice President for
Operations; the remaining two to the Senior Vice President for Staff
Service.. The UHMFC is managed on a day-to-day basis by an Executive Vice
President. Though a President has always existed, he has traditionally not
been full time. Chart 31135 presents NHMFC's current organization.
2.4       NHUFC has some 470 staff, including 350 regular employees and 120
temporary staff recruited to help clear a backlog of accounting work. This
represented sbout one staff per 100 mortgages. To allow the Corporation to
take on the new role envisioned for it, NHMFC plans considerable staff
strengthening in a variety of functions including corporate planning,
computerized manage1ent information systems, mortgage accounting,
underwriting and financial management.



- 13 -
Operational Performance
2.5        Since the beginning of its operations in 1980 through mid-1986,
UHMFC financed some 48,000 dwellings worth P6.2 billion (US$304 million) in
mortgages. Operations expanded rapidly from 973 units financed in 1980 for a
mortgage value of P217 million to 16,929 units in 1984 for a total mortgage
value of P2,223 million. Thereafter, the Corporation's lending declined as
the effects of the economic crises began to be felt, until lending in mid-
1986 and half of 1987 was virtually suspended.   The primary cause of
suspension was that the Corporation's major source of funds -- the Pag-IBIG
arovident Fund -- was temporarily discontinued. The number of borrowers per
Anit averaged 1.8. Table IX-I of Annex 9 presents NHNFC's annual performance
from 1980-85.
2.6       The Corporation has not attempted to seek geographical or income-
group dispersion in its lending portfolio. Based on a sample taken in March
1985, two thirds of its loans had gone to borrowers in Manila, about 16% to
Luson, 15% to the Visayas, 1.2% to Mindanao and 0.3% elsewhere. Lending by
EMWFC has been skewed towards upper-income borrowers, almost exclusively the
top 15%-20%.   The average mortgage size advanced by NHNFC in 1986 was
P160,000, affordable to the top 15% of the urban population assuming
affordability of two times annual household income. Funds were sourced from
the contributions of predominantly lower-income Pag-IBIG contributors,
resulting in a regressive transfer of resources from poor to rich.  Figure
2.1 presents the income profile of HDNF contributors and that of INHNC
borrowers, in which a serious mismatch is evident.   Due to growing public
awareness of this issue, and consequent public protests stemming additionally
from resistance to all Pag-IBIG deductions as economic conditions worsened,
provident fund contributions were made voluntary at the end of 1986. Details
of 1JHKFC's past operations are provided in Annex 9.
2.7      Average loans per borrower are much lower than the average mortgage,
since most units are financed by the combined borrowing of two or more Pag-
IBIG members. In 1985, for example, the average mortgage per unit was about
P145,000 while the average loan per borrower was only P74,000, implying an
average 1.9 borrowers per unit.  Prior to 1984, UHEYC also offered an "open
housing" program, under which it allowed non-Pag-IBIG members to borrow at a
higher interest rate.  Since most open housing loans were large, averaging
P322,000 in 1984, this policy served to reduce the number of households
benefiting from NHNFC's limited resources, although it increased yields on
the overall portfolio. As of mid-1986, 79% of the Corporation's loans were
to Pag-IBIG members while 15% were open housing loans and 6% loans to others.
The open housing loan program was discontinued in 1984 owing to NHUFC's
liquidity problems.
Financial Performance
2.8        As of the end of 1985, National Homel's assets were predominantly
(88%) in mortgage contract receivables, of which about 10% was current.
Deferred charges of about P600 million or 9% of the total were also shown as
assets, representing operating losses since 1980 which had been capitalized
and were to be amortized against future earnings through the mid-1990s. The
HDNF trust funds totaling P3.9 billion at year end comprised the largest



- 14 -
single liability (57%), followed by notes and bonds (P1.8 billion or 26%).
Current liabilities represented atmit 13%, with equity of about 4%. Though
initially intended to be the Corporation's primary funding soXco, capital
market instruments (notes and bonds) Initially contributed only about half of
UFC funds, and by end-1985 comprised less than a quarter.  The ratio of
market borrovings to Pag-IBIG never exceeded about 1:1.   The NHNFC's
historical and projected financial  statements  from  1980-1993,  including
income statement, balance sheet, and sources and applications of funds, are
presented in Annex 11.
Figure 2.1
INCOME PROFILE OF NMBOC RROMEBS AND HDNF  ENM BERS
(sample June, 1984)
70
60I
20
10
0
,v:nw I=                     C 3
tb%otPq. 50 ile         895%W hChSJ9
H"%MbM        NHMF C w
2.9           At end-1985, NHNFC's financial condition could only be
characterized as insolvent in view of its serious capital impairment and
liquidity problems. The Corporation had been reporting small annual profits
but had in fact been incurring losses since 1984 which reached P613 (US$30)
million by December, 1985.  Offset against equity of P255 (US$12) million,
National Home was technically bankrupt with a negative net worth of P358
(US$17.5) million. The problems which led to the Corporation's insolvency
were:
(a) lack of sound financial planning;
(b) negative spread (due to failure of cross-subsidies);
(c) liberal loan terms in conjunction with weak credit
appraisal criteria;
(d) poor collections; and
(e) accounting backlogs.



- 15 -
2.10      Financial Planning.  Over the last several years, lack of funds has
been NHNFC's most pressing problem.   The Corporation issued Lines of
Commitment to originating banks without arranging the requisite financing,
2ssuming the capital market would provide adequate coverage at reasonable
prices as and when needed. Unusually high inflation drove interest rates to
between 20% and 40% by 1984 (Annex 8) when these commitments fell due,
forcing NHHFC to liquidate its other investments, and utilize Pag-IBIG trust
funds to supplement high cost market borrowings costing up to 33% to meet
even a portion of its commitment obligations.   Despite this effort, as of
December 31, 1985, a balance of P1.0 billion (US$49 million) of contractual
takeout obligations remained, the majority of which were settled through
transfer to HDNF in 1987. During 1986 and 1987, NHMFC's funding requirements
were estimated at over 3.0 billion, substantially in excess of anticipated
inflows from mortgage repayments and new Pag-IBIG borrowings of about P1.7
billion. As NHMFC's liquidity needs grew, funds available from HDNF for
housing shrank as pressure mounted for its abolition. With interest rates at
unprecedented levels and Pag-IBIG retrenching, the Corporation faced a severe
liquidity crisis, compounded by unusual economic conditions.
2.11       Negative Spread.  The Corporation's initial Business Plan called
for a cross-subsidized interest rate structure with yields on open housing
loans to upper income groups and earnings on other high-yielding investments
expected to cover the proposed 9.5% subsidized fixed r&te on Pag-IBIG
mortgages.   Average costs were expected to be 12.5% and average yields
13.85%, leaving a positive spread of 1.35% to cover NENFC's administrative
costs, as detailed in Annex 9.  For its first two years, NHEFC essentially
managed the HD!F fund, earning a sufficient spread on other investments to
cover the losses on its modest mortgage portfolio.
2.12       Hovever, NHMFC's borrowing costs from the start were higher than
anticipated, and other investments did not produce the expected surplus to be
used for cross-subsidy, unsettling NHHYC's delicate cross-subsidy formula
almost from the outset.   By proceeding with the purchase of fixed rate
mortgages yielding 9% (with fees, points and charges, 11.2%), without
adjusting for the higher cost of funds, the Corporation locked itself from
the beginning into both a negative spread and term mismatch on member loans,
still counting on anticipated future profits 'to cover the assured losses. In
1983 as the volume of mortgage purchases rose, NENFC's spread turned
negative.
2.13        As rates sharply rose following the 1983/84 crisis, NHNFC was
forced to liquidate its other investments and utilize HDMF funds to
supplement high cost bonds yielding up to 33% to meet even a portion of its
mortgage commitments.   Since it was not marketing mortgages per-se, but
instead floating its own bonds and debentures, NHMFC faced the standard S&L
dilemma of fixed-rate, low-yield assets and floating-rate, high-cost
liabilities. Actual spreads reached negative 4% in 1985 as shown in Table
IV-VII of Annex 9. As a result, the Corporation began incurring losses in
1983 which were capitalized and included under "deferred charges" to be
amortized from future earnings, under liberal accounting practices.
2.14      Loan Terms and Credit ARpraisal Criteria.  The terms and criteria
of NHMFC loans to HDNF members have been stipulated by ED)F rather than by
NHMFC's own assessment of borrowers' creditworthiness, with the result that



- 16 -
many borrowers are over-extended. The loan terms normally extended to Pag-
IBIG members, for example, were generous, with a fixed interest rate of 9%
over 25 years and 90% financing.   Originating fees and points totaling 7%
were capitalized and added to the loan amount, bringing the effective loan-
to-value ratio to about 97%.   Loan amounts of four times annual income,
regardless of other debt obligations, were allowed. While individual loans
could not exceed P100,000, up to three members could "tack" into a single
property costing  P300,000.    Partnerships  with  "open housing"  loans  to
nonmembers were also allowed.
2.15       Collections. Collection on NHMFC loans was the responsibility of
its collecting banks which have largely not followed up on delinquent
borrowers.   About 30% of these banks are, in fact, now closed and banks
controlling nearly 60% of the Corporations lending volume are either closed
or being restructured. As a result, collections have deteriorated and over
the last 5 years averaged only 68% of current amounts due and 60% of total
amounts due including arrears. As of December 1986, cumulative arrears were
over P708 (US$35) million or about 9 months receivables.   Follow-up on
collections by NHMFC has been obstructed by its slow viAnual posting of
receipts which is currently 13 months behind, by lack of enforcement of
sanctions and by NHMFC's own accounting backlog and consequent lack of
collection management and follow-up.   Computerization of accounts competes
for staff time with the equally urgent problems of collections and manual
postings.
2.16        In early 1987, P4.7 billion of NHMFC's P6.2 billion mortgage
portfolio was transferred back to HDNF, backdated to mid-1986.   The HDFY,
which has a large, underutilized staff since it became voluntary, has assumed
responsibility for computerizing records, posting backpayments and managing
future collections. Amounts due were proposed to be offset against Pag-IBIG
members savings balances, thus collecting by fiat a portion of arrears.
Future payments can be deducted at source together with now voluntary Pag-
IBIG payments. However, as of mid-1987, the associated P708 (US$35) million
in interest receivables plus P87 (US$4) million in HIOC receivables still
remained on NHHFC's balance sheet. The HDMF has agreed to pay this debt to
NHMFC as a priority claim on its mortgage collection cash flow.
2.17        In summary, NHOFC has thus far functioned as a member-oriented
lending institution, with lending skewed towards its most affluent members
and non-members. It has not developed a secondary mortgage per-se, but has
been operating as a retail housing finance agency.   The nature of NIMFC's
primary business is obscured by the use of originating banks through which it
has operated. The mechanisms of its "secondary" operations, e.g. collecting
banks and HIGC insurance have not, to date, served the Corporation well, and
have, in fact, contributed to its problems. The fact that NHMFC's business
is primarily retail housing finance must be recognized, and its operations
and staffing revised to better serve this function.
2.18         While NHHFC's operational growth was impressive in the early
1980's, its original business plan was premised on a risky cross-subsidy
formula which quickly succumbed to normal market fluctuations in yields and
costs of funds. By 1983 the Corporation was incurring losses which left it
insolvent by the end of 1984 -- four years after start-up.  Its bankruptcy
was caused by the interplay between weak financial planning, a negative



- 17 -
spread due to the failure of cross-subsidies, liberal loan terms, lack of
proper credit appraisal, poor collections management and accounting backlogs.
These clearly must be addressed if National Home is to play a pivotal role in
mobilizing the private sector participation So essential to meeting
PhilippLne shelter needs. Annex 9 presents details of NHMFC's operations and
financial position.
Future Role and Policies
2.19      Mandate and Key Policies. Government's plan for the rationalization
of the sector calls for NHMFC to function in future as governments principal
mortgage finance institution, relying on long-term fixed-rate loans
principally from SSS, GSIS and HDNF to finance its operations.  Interventions
in the capital market will be substantially reduced. However, since the P1.5
billion (US$73 million) remaining portfolio is partially financed through
P1.0 billion (US$49 million) in short and medium term bonds, the corporation
will remain exposed to interest rate fluctuations and potential losses as
bonds are rolled over until these accounts can be sold to HDMF (for member
loans) or commercial banks. The portfolio carries a 14% yield as of year end
1987 and is financed with a blend of equity and bonds costing 9.5%. The 4.5
point spread is therefore expected to remain positive until the mortgages can
be sold.  By 1990, bonds would represent only 22% of total liabilities if
NHMFC were not able to sell the associated mortgages, and 10% if it can.
2.20       National Home's intention is to shift to mass housing, servicing
families down to about the  20th percentile.  Annex  10 presents  the
Corporation's proposed distribution of mortgage purchases, with about three
quarters below the 50th percentile by number, and 50% by peso volume.
Mortgages will be purchased from individuals, builders, bankers, ngos and
the National Housing Authority. All of NHA's serviced sites and about three
quarters of its upgrading mortgages are considered saleable.   (Resettlement
and the remaining 25% of upgrading will be covered through budgetary support,
thus separating NHA's governmental functions from its more viable market-
oriented functions).   NHMFC will obtain a positive spread of at least 2
points over its cost of funds. Financial planning has been strengthened and
a computerized commitment monitoring and early-warning system recently
operationalized. Selected loan terms have been tightened and a new ceiling
introduced on loan amounts of two times (vs the previous four times) annual
salary.  The resulting proportion of family income to be used for housing
expenditures ranges from 22% to 34% depending on income level.   Tacking
(combining incomes) has been reduced from the fourth degree of blood
relations to the second, though scope exists for further reduction.   The
NHMFC's Board is expected, in future, to determine its lending terms,
following consultation with HUDCC.
2.21      Collections, in future, will be more tightly managed by NHMFC, but
remitting banks will still be used for loan servicing to avoid the need for
NHMFC to establish a natlonal branch network for collections which is not
considered cost effective. Mortgage insurance by HIGC has been terminated;
NHHFC will manage its own follow-up on delinquent loans and foreclosures. It
will therefore need to introduce a loan-loss reserve, on which COA's
agreement in principle was recently obtained.  The accounting backlog has
been effectively transferred to HDMP.  National Home expect: the P1.5 billion
in remaining mortgage accounts to be cleared and posted up to date by



- 18 -
July, 1988. A summary of NHMFC's revised policies is presented in Annex 10,
agreement on which was reached at Negotiations.
2.22       Institutional Action Plan. To achieve the planned turnaround and
restart operations on a sound financial footing, NHNFC plans to undertake the
program of actions outlined in Annex 10 which was confirmed at Negotiations.
Important elements of the Plan have already been completed. These include:
(a)   Preparation of a new Policy Statement based on a revised, detailed
Business Plan which was completed in March, 1987, and has been
approved by NHMFC's new Board;
(b)   Recapitalization.  In July, 1987 Government completed the release
of the agreed P1 billion (US$49 million) in recapitalization for
NHMFC.   Following write-off of past losses (point (c) below),
NHMFC's equity totaled P525 (US$26) million, of which P462 (US$23)
million is unimpaired, sufficient to sustain a portfolio of about
7-9 billion assuring a capitalization ratio of about 5-6%;
(c)   Financial restructuring.   Effective December 31, 1986, National
Home wrote off P561 (US$28) million, representing the bulk of its
past losses, and transferred P4.7 billion in mortgages to HDMF for
refinancing, eliminating the source of its negative spread;
(d)  Reorganization.  The Corporation has completed its reorganization.
It must now secure approvals from DBM and the Civil Service; and
(e)   Signature of the Demonstration Sale Agreement dated January 29,
1988 between NHMFC and NRA on serviced site units to establish
terms and conditions and test procedures, and a Commitment Line
Agreement with NHA dated February 4, 1988;
2.23       Key tasks remaining include:
(a)   Automation of NHMFC's internal systems and MIS.   Six computer
modules are needed in 1988. The Commitment Line Monitoring and
Take-Out Modules have been completed and tested, and the
Accounting and Billing/Collection Modules are expected to be
completed by mid-1988. Two additional modules for Acquired Assets
Management and Foreclosures will be developed in 1988.   A more
powerful, integrated system will be needed thereafter, which will
be developed in 1989 for introduction in 1990. Details of NHMFC's
automation program are presented in Annex 10;
(b)   Strengthening of accounting and internal audit functions which
will occur in 1988-89;
(c)   Development of an adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) policy and a
computerized administrative capability in anticipation of NHDYC'8
eventual reentry into the private capital market, and a timetable
for its implementation. This policy is expected to be in place by
December 31, 1989; and



- 19 -
(d)   Review of future funding mechanisms. A study will be undertaken to
explore instrumentality for reentry into the capital market, or
otherwise mobilizing private funds. However, until these
instruments are operational, NHMFC will mobilize resources
predominately from long term fixed rate lenders.
2.24       Financial Performance:   Assuming NHMFC adheres to its revised
policies and pursues the agreed Action Plan, and that HDMF honors its payment
obligation,  NHNFC should achieve and sustain financial viability.    The
Corporation is expected to realize an after-tax profit starting in 1988 of
P16 (US$0.8) million rising to P30 (US$1.5) million by 1992. The associated
rate of return on equity would be about 5% initially, increasing to 9% by
1991.
2.25      For the first few years, NHMFC's income will be derived from the
relatively high yield mortgage portfolio of about P1.5 billion which was
retained after financial restructuring. During the first two years (1988-
1989) only limited mortgage purchases are expected, while developers are
rebuilding their pipeline.   The bulk of new purchases are expected during
1990-1992 when annual takeouts would reach about P1.0, P1.9, and P3.0 billion
respectively. Interest income from existing mortgages and new takeouts are
expected to increase from about P200 million in 1988 to over P600 million by
1992. Minor additional income will be derived from commitment fees, expected
to reach about P30 million by 1992.
2.26         Expenses are expected to increase proportionate to mortgage
activity. Interest expense will increase from about P130 million in 1988 to
about P480 million by 1992.   The NHMFC will continue to be vulnerable in
respect to the interest cost of the P1.3 billion of short term bonds now
held, from which the present portfolio is financed. The bulk of these bonds
mature over the next two years. A portion was paid off in 1987, and
refinancing of the rest at more favourable terms seems possible.   By 1992
about 10% of total liabilities would represent floating rate or short term
instruments. Operating costs of about P50 million in 1986 are expected to
drop to about P41 million in 1988 as a result of NHMNC's recent
reorganization and reduction in staff.   Thereafter,  operating costs are
expected to rise only slowly as the benefits of computerization are realized.
Initially operating expenses (excluding interest) would represent about 2% of
the mortgage portfolio including arrears  (3% excluding arrears).   With
increases in the portfolio size and reduction of the HDMF receivables, this
rate is expected to fall to 1.0% by 1992, though in terms of absolute
amounts, operating expenditures will rise from P41 million in 1988 to P78
million in 1992. A provision for doubtful debts of 5% will be built up over
the first few years, and a 2% fet will be paid to banks for origination
services.
2.27       Overall, the scale of NHEFC's operations is expected to increase
threefold from P2.3 billion in 1988 to about P7.5 billion (net of repayments)
by 1992. The major funders of this expansion will be the Social Insurance
System (SSS/GSIS/HDMF) with about two thirds of the total, the Bank loan of
P1.6 billion (US$80 million equivalent) or one quarter, and self-generated
funds the remainder.   The Corporation does not plan to seek adtlitional
government equity or subsidy contributions during the Plan period.



- 20 -
Consequently the NHMFC's gearing ratio (equity as a % of total assets) will
drop from 20% in 1988 to about 10% by 1992, still within an acceptable range.
2.28       Key assumptions in the Corporation's financial projection  which
bear close attention by NHMFC's managemenc and the Bank include:
(a) continuing modest local inflation and thus low interest rates on
remaining bonds until these bonds are retired;
(b) regular payment from HDM? on the P700 million In interest
receivables, the majority of which are associated with the portion
of the portfolio transferred to HDN? in 1986; and
(c) significantly tighter collection administration, prompt follow-up
on delinquencies, and vigorous enforcement of sanctions which
represents a significant departure froi; past practice. Without
this, NHMFC's loan loss reserve of about 5X would prove inadequate
and its effective interest rate would have to increase. The
projections assume a major improvement in collection efficiency
from about 60% in the past (74% by some calculations) to initially
85% on new takeouts (commensurate with reported collections on the
World Bank assisted portion of NHA's portfolio), rising to 95% in
1993 as realizations are received on properties foreclosed xnd
resold. NHMFC's new management understands the importance of
improving collections administration and enforcing sanctions.
Tighter future management, computerization of billing, collections,
and accounting, and termination of HIGC insurance should result in
significant improvement in collection administration.   However,
this represents the most critical of the Corporation's managerial
actions, without which it cannot remain viable.   At Negotiations
assurance was there' re received that NHDFC will ti8htly administer
collections and pz.rptly foreclose on delinquent borrowers, and
market the associated collateral;
In view of NHMFC's policy reforms, the strong commitment of its new
management to restore profitability, and the significant systems improvements
being undertaken through the agreed Institutional Action Plan and technical
assistance, the Corporation should be fully able to achieve viability.
Institutional development and financial targets will be closely monitored
during   implementation  of  the  project.    Agreement  was  reached  at
Negotiations regarding NHMFC's achievement of key financial performance
indicies.



- 21 -
B. The National Housing Authority
Backround. Orgnization and Management
2.29         The National Housing Authority (NHA) is a public corporation
established in mid-1975 by amalgamating six public housing agencies. Under
its charter, NHA is mandated to undertake housing, land development and
resettlement for lower-income groups, and promote private participation in
housing. In practice, however, it has been involved in diverse programs and
services including high-cost completed units intended to cross-subsidize
shelter for the lowest-income groups; construction of high-cost units in
joint venture with private builders; rental housing operations; provision of
small business and workshop construction loans; and special construction
projects for Government, in addition to its primary functions of slum
upgrading, aquatter resettlement, development of serviced sites, and the
production of commercial and industrial (CI) properties. The Authority
provides mortgage financing for all the above, and services its own
portfolio.
2.30        The Authority is attached to the Office of the President and
operates under a Board, the composition of which is presented in Annex 13.
Although the new Board is operational in an advisory capacity, Congressional
approval must be obtained for its confirmation. The Authority's Chief
Executive Officer, the General Manager, is appointed by the President, and
confirmed by Congress.
2.31      The NHA is organized around eight operational groups reflecting its
various functions, with each group reporting directly to the General Manager
(Chart 40053). Small regional offices are maintained in Cebu, Davao, Cagayan
de Oro, Bacalod and Iloilo. Almost 80% of the Authority's 2,400 staff members
are deployed on operational work, with 18% in central administration and 5%
in central technical units. Project managers have high levels of
accountability for activities on their sites, and are generally experienced
and competent.   Staff are generally competent and well motivated.   The
Authority has evolved a highly centralized management structure wbich has
tended to restrict delegation of authority within the organization and to
hamper lateral communication among departments.
Operational Performance
2.32      Shelter output by NHA during 1976-86 totaled about 148,000 units.
Together with the 41,000 units inherited from its predecessors, the Authority
has handled 189,000 accounts. Production is heavily concentrated in Manila,
though regional programs began to expand In the early 1980s. Of NRA's total
production, resettlement dominated with over half of all units (52%),
followed by slum upgrading (29%), serviced sites (14%), most of which were
used for resettlement, and a few completed, higher-cost units (5%). Capital
investments during 1975 to 1984 totaled some P3.1 billion, about a third of
which went to slum upgrading and 42% to resettlement sites, as shown in Table
2.2.   Annex 12 presents details of NHA's annual production and capital
investments since 1975, and discusses trends and patterns.



- 22 -
2.33      Though impressive in absolute terms, NHA's output remains marginal
in relation to needs. As noted in para. 1.13, the Authority's contribution to
new housing stock for lower-income groups was negligible over this period,
comprising at best a few thousand units, since nearly all the new serviced
sites it provided were utilized for resettlement. Of the 257,000 dwellings
identified in 1978 as needing upgrading in Metro Manila alone, NHA has
serviced only about 43,000 or 17%. (At this pace, another five decades would
be required to complete the current backlog.) The NHA recognizes that the
pace of upgrading will have to be accelerated and will begin to address this
problem under the proposed project by carrying out a resurvey of informal
settlements in major urban a.-eas to determine the current backlog, and
rethinking its upgrading strategy.
Table 2.2
NHA SHELTER PRODUCTION AND CAPITAL INVESTMENTS. 1976-86
Type of Investment    Number of Units    %    Capital Investment    %
1975-86            1975-86  (P million)
Serviced Sites           20,458         14               NA          NA
Resettlement             76.562         52               NA          NA
Sub Total           97,020         66             1,300        42.0
Slum Upgrading           43,006         29             1,029        33.0
Completed Units           7,930          5               602        19.5
Industrial/Commercial   Included     Included            149         5.0
Livelihood Loans             NA         NA                12         0.5
Sub Total          147.956        100             3.092       100.0
Iaherited Units     41,000         --               NA         --
TOTAL   188.956                  NA          -
2.34      The sale price of units built by NHA during 1975-85 averaged about
P11,800, affordable to roughly 85% of the urban population.  Affordability
was achieved, however, by subsidizing half of the real cost of production.
Average unit costs and sale prices are shown in Annex 12.   The NHA's
involvement in projects has also been lengthy, suppressing volume delivery.
This is primarily due to protracted land acquisition through expropriation,
slow sales, and lengthy delays in turning over completed infrastructure
(roads, water supply, sewerage) to the responsible agencies.  For the most
part, NRA has been unable to extract itself from infrastructure maintenance
and operating responsibilities which have become burdensome given the size
and physical dispersion of its portfolio.
Financial Performance
2.35        The NHA's financial performance has significantly lagged its
physical performance and suffers from a combination of ineffective or
inappropriate policies as well as weaknesses in its own financial management.
The NRA functioned in most respects like a government department, and
enforcement of pricing and other financial policies was weak. The Authority's
unwritten financial objective was to realize a marginal profit in nominal



- 23 -
terms. The financial statements show that this has been achieved over the
last seven years,  with a return on equity averaging 0.25%.    However,
inflation over this period averaged 20% annually, leaving NRA with less than
a third of its original 1979 capital in real terms. Direct government
budgetary infusions have been necessary to both fund operations and service
debt. During 1976-85, Government support to NHA totaled some P2.7 billion
while peso loans sourced mainly from the World Bank and the Federal Republic
of Germany contributed an additional P1.9 billion.
2.36      Asset Structure.  The NHA's past and projected financial statements
for 1980 - 1993 are shown in Annex 14, and a detailed writeup of 1985 and
1986 is presented in Annex 12. As of December 31, 1985, after a decade of
operations, about 65% of NHA's total assets (P2.7 billion or US$132 million)
was in nonproductive investments in works in progress and properties held for
sale or transfer to other government agencies. Productive investments
(mortgage contract receivables, completed rental properties and loans to
municipalities) -- representing the main thrust of NHA's output -- comprised
only P691 (US$34) million or a modest 17% of total assets.  This figure is
strikingly low for a mature institution and is due to a variety of factors
including an accounting discrepancy which was noted by the Commission on
Audit (COA) in its 1985 audit of NHA's accounts.   The discrepancy was
partially addressed by shifting P778 million under "works in progress" into
completed rental properties, mortgage contract receivables and works held for
transfer, thus reducing works in progress from P1.6 billion to P799 million.
(Further adjustments to this item i'ere made in 1987). However, even after
this adjustment, a substantial amoint remained in nonproductive investments.
Para. 2.38 discusses NBA's sales and inventory problems.   The Authority's
problem of overstating works in progress arose in part as a result of the
lack of integration among its various operational and financial statements.
2.37       NHA's borrowings at end-1986 were  relatively low for a public
corporation, with government equity and retained earnings representing 55% of
total funds employed. Liquidity has declined as works in progress claimed an
increasing proportion of assets, with current assets dropping from about a
quarter of total assets in 1980 to 14% in 1986.   The current ratio also
dropped from neatly 6 in the late 1970's to 1.6 in 1986 but generally
remained within a satisfactory range.
2.38       Cost Recovers.   The Authority's reliance on government equity
contributions has been necessary in view of its poor cost recovery
performance. In 1986, internally-generated funds covered only about 30% of
the Authority's total debt service obligations which amounted to some P177
(US$8.7) million.   The low level of cost recovery reflected three major
problems -- inadequate pricing policies, slow sales, and weak collections.
The combined (cumulative) impact of these three factors eroded cost recovery
on residential properties to about 36% of NHA's expenditures on site
development and 18% on commercial industrial properties, as shown in Figure
2.2.
(a) Pricing PolicL.   Until mid-1985, NHA's pricing policy was based on
three key principles: (a) significant cross subsidies involving
subsidized pricing of residential units for the low-income population
to be covered from anticipated profits generated from the sale of
commercial/industrial (CI) properties at market prices, (b) repayment



- 24 -
of Infrastructure costs incurred by UHA not from the sale price, but
through budgetary transfers from relevant municipalities and
ministries, and (c) non-recoverj of overheads and interest during
construction. However, with poor CI sales as a result of the country's
economic crisis and the inability to recover infrastructure costs from
other agencies, NHA wat forced to revise its pricing policies in mid-
1985. First, cross subsidies were eliminated and the prices of
residential units were set to reflect the real cost of development
and construction. The objective was to ensure that at least a break-
even price was achieved for all units, though differential pricing
continues. Second, land acquisition is to be completed prior to start-
up of civil works, allowing accurate land pricing and prompt sale upon
completion.   Third, the cost of all infrastructure not explicitly
covered under a contract with another agency is to be included in the
sale price, thus eliminating the need for interagency transfers.
In future, the institutions purchasing the mortgage will determine
credit terms and CI units will be sold for cash rather than
credit.   Annex 12 presents details of changes in the Authority's
pricing policy,
Figure 2.3
NH COST RECOVERY
180_
160
140 -
c1c00i~o          110%
s                                       xo _ECIo       75%
40                                                     36
20 -_kCPA
cosr              PRICNG             sAM          COLUCTONS
The NA's revised pricing policy parallels that of private developers,
but could increase lot costs by as much as 50%.  However, due to a
combination of reduced standards and increases in household income,
the resulting prices are still affordable to about 85% of the urban
population. Effective demand was nearly 20:1 in a 1985 market test of
the new prices. Annex 3 contains a breakdown of proposed unit costs
and affordability under the project.
(b) Sales. Since a major proportion of NBA's assets (24%) is tied up in
unsold properties governed by the old pricing policy, some time will
elapse before the new policy produces improved cash flows. Pocr sales
have become a primary concern for NHA, especially in CI properties,
only a quarter of which are showing financial returns (Table 2.3).



- 25 -
Gradual progress has been made In reducing the unsold inventory from
67,000 residential units in 1986 (37% of those completed) to 54,000
(28% of those completed) as of March 1987 and 47,000 in May, 1988
(about 25% of completed).   The Authority is therefore aware of the
problem and is conducting an analysis of its causes, which is expected
to be completed by mid-1988.
Table 2.4
NHA INVENTORY (MARCH 1987)
Completed    Allocated   Under Collection
or Fully Paid
Residential Properties (no.)    193,645   158,719 (82%)   139,437 (72%)
Commercial/Industrial (mln m sq)  1.715      0.633 (37%)     0.405 (24%)
(c) Collect2in. The Authority's poor collection performance stems partly
from difficulties in initiating regular payment habits among squatter
populations who have no previous payment history and who are
accustomed to free occupancy, partly from political pressures, and
partly from weak administration.   In addition, until 1983  NHA was
able to rely on government budgetary inflows and had little real need
to enforce collections to continue its main construction activities.
Since the economic downturn curtailed the availability of government
investment funds, NUA has attempted to increase collections, but with
mixed results. Payment in World Bank-assisted sites was reported at
85% of current amounts due in 1985, a significant iaprovement over the
1984 level of 67%. However, performance in 1986 declined to 77% due to
widespread nonpayment following the change in Government. The   1985
improvement was achieved through tightened collection administration,
since NHA rarely enforces sanctions on residential properties and had
repossessed and resold only 3 units.   Collections on the overall
portfolio in 1985 were only 71%, with arrears averaging 6.4 months,
improving to 77% in 1986 when payments due on resettlement sltes were
reduced. Average receivables, however, rose to about 8 months.
Loans for small businesses,  home materials,  municipalities    and
resettlement had the highest arrearage levels. Resettlement accounts,
which represent half of all units built by NHA and a quarter of total
receivables, achieved repayment of only 57% with average arrears of
about 19 months.   Resettlement mortgages have proven largely
uncollectible since no real sanctions can be enforced in the event of
default. Collection on small business (livelihood) loans, representing
only about 6% of NHA's collection portfolio, totaled only 38% of
current amounts due in 1986 and 4% including arrears, with average
arrearages of over 100 months. Despite lts need for revenue, NUA
failed to repossess units in default or, for municipal loans, to seek
deduction of payments at source from Treasury.  NRA's situation was
made yet more precarious by having no provisions against loan losses



- 26 -
on its mortgage portfolio, in conformance with a COA rullig.  Table
XII-VI of Annex 12 summarizes NMA's collection performance during
1982-86.
2.39      Accounting System/Audits. The NHA is further hindered by a manual
accounting system which has proven unable to keep pace with the growth and
increasing diversity of its operations, and does not provlde information in a
manner to enable "profit center" analysis. As a result, there is a serious
time lag between the Authority's operations (production, sales and
collections) and its formal financial records.   In 1984 and 1985,  COA
qualified NHA's financial statements for inconsistencies between its
accounting and other records. The lack of integrated, up-to-date financial
records also renders management decisions based on inaccurate and misleading
data precarious, at best.
2.40        In summary, NHA's substantial operational performance remains
marginal in relation to total needs. Upgrading has been slow, and expansion
of new housing stock affordable to the lowest 80% of the urban population
negligible. Lengthy involvement in site development due to protracted land
acquisition, slow sales and delays in turnover of completed infrastructure
suppress volume delivery. The Authority's financial performance has been the
weakest aspect of its operations, and virtually threatens the Authority's
survival as an independent corporation. High initial liquidity has been
gradually translated into works in progress, but due to protracted
construction periods, inattention to marketing, weak accounting procedures,
and low collections levels due to nonenforcement of sanctions, these works
have not yet been translated into sales, mortgage assets and income.   Its
mixed mandate, including governmental resettlement functions, is the cause of
some of these problems. As a result, at end 1986, 57% of NRA's assets were
in nonproductive investments and the Authority is unable to service its
mounting debt. The Authority's   policy of "marginal, nominal profit" has
resulted in its gradual decapitalization in real terms and consequent
dependency upon continued infusions of government equity to continue
operations. Though unable to sustain further borrowings, NRA cannot rely in
future on continued major government support. The policy changes described
below are intended to address these problems.
Future Role and Policies
2.41       Mandate and Key Policies:  Under Executive Order 90, NRA is slated
to function as Government's sole producer of low cost-housing in the overall
reform and rationalization of the housing sector.   The Authority would
specialize in volume land development with gradual transfer of its financial
role to NHNFC, which would continue as Government's primary housing finance
institution, holding and arranging collection on all mortgages.   The NHA
would function as a "publicly held private developer," concentrating on
volume production, quick turnover, and cash payment through immediate
mortgage sale.
2.42       Outputs would be primarily serviced sites and upgrading with only
limited resettlement.   Construction of completed units (typically costing
over  P72,000 in 1988) affordable only to the most affluent half of the
population would be left to the private sector. The criteria used by NRA in
evaluation and selection of projects have been reviewed and are acceptable to



- 27 -
the Bank. Resettlement and up to a quarter of upgrading would be undertaken
on a subsidized basis through grant financing.   Cost recovery would be
limited.   Thus subsidies would be measurable and transparent, and their
impact on tha budget predictable. All serviced sites and the 75% remaining
upgrading sites are considered saleable.   The NMA would shed its functions
in mortgage financing and servicing. Rental units would be sold and estate
management functions also terminated. Small business loans would be shifted
to a specialty institution when Government establishes the locus of these
activities as part of the general government reorganization. Infrastructure
works would be carried out for others only under contract or otherwise fully
recovered through sale prices. Completed works would be transferred to the
owner-agencies promptly upon completion.
2.43      The NHA would generate initial construction cash by selling off
marketable segments of its existing mortgage portfolio, discounting portions
as necessary, and writing off those which are not recoverable.   Given the
size of its portfolio, some portion might be transferred to UNHFC together
with the associated liabilities.   Thereafter, it would simply revolve its
capital.   Future construction would be on a rapid turnaround basis with
mortgage financing coming primarily from NHIFC.   Freed of long term
mortgages, NUA will need much less capital to function effectively as a
developer.  A summary of NHA's revised policies is presented in Annex 13,
which was confirmed at Negotiations.
2.44     Institutional Action Plan:  To prepare itself to take on this new
role, and to address the problems discussed above, the Authority is in the
process of implementing the Institutional Action Plan detailed in Annex 13
which  was also confirmed at Negotiations.  Key elements of the Plan include:
(a) Reorganization and decentralization of NMA operations, the plan
for which is expected to be completed by mid 1989, and
implementation by 1991;
(b)   Integrated automation of the MIS,  operations,  accounting and
escate  management  systems.    The  Authority  has  recruited
consultants for the design, procurement and installation of a
fully computerized accounting and collection system. Phase I of
this task began in December, 1987 and will be completed by July,
1988 financed under Loan 1821-PH. Implementation is expected to
be completed in 1992;
(c)   Balance sheet clean-up and financial restructuring, the bulk of
which (Phase I and II) is expected to be complete by August 1988
with phased write-offs over the following four years as the
existing portfolio is discounted and sold (Phase III). Phase II
would include the transfer of completed works built on behalf of
NWSS and other government agencies, together with the associated
liabilities off NHA's balance sheet by December 31, 1988;
(d)   Strengthening of accounting and internal audit functions during
1989;
(e)   Implementation of a sale/docmentation drive on unsold inventory,
from January 1988 through the end of 1990;



- 28 -
(f)   Development of a Portfolio Liquidation Plan by July 1988, a draft
of which was reviewed at Negotiations and divestiture of estate
management functions by 1992; and
(g)   Execution uf a major land acquisition program which began in 1987
to ensure NHA holds title in future prior to the startup of
construction.
2.45     Financial Performance:  Assuming NHA completes the agreed program of
actions in a timely manner, and adheres to its revised policies, it is
expected to about break even in 1990 and turn profitable thereafter with a
return on equity of about 3% in 1991 increasing to about 9% by 1992.
Significant lead time is required to complete development of new sites and
the associated sales, at which point the impact of NHA's revised pricing
policies will be felt, and to implement the inventory and asset sales
program.
2.46      During the next three years, the Authority will depend on a blend
of both the sale of, and profits from existing assets for cash. Government
equLty infusions will be required for a major land acquisition program and
construction advances, and grant funds will be needed for resettlement.
Subsidies to underwrite interim losses are not considered likely.   Of the
projected total revenue of about P160 million in 1988, and P190 million in
1990, almost all is expected to derive from existing operations. Asset sales
should begin in 1988 and continue through 1992, by which time the bulk of
NRA's present portfolio of mortgages, units held for sale, and works in
development totalling P3.6 billion at end-1986 is expected to be either
written off or sold. By 1992 78% of gross revenues will come from mortgage
sales on new units, and 22% from remaining unsold loan and vther assets, such
as rental units. As resettlement sites, small business loans and home
materials loans are written off through balance sheet cleanup or transferred
to the new "Trust Account", NHA's collection efficiency is expected to rise
from the 1986 level of 77% to gradually reach about 93% by 1992. This assumes
the Authority begins to foreclose delinquent loans and resell properties,
without which collections would be unlikely to exceed about 85%, and NUA
would require further government subsidies. Thus the Authority's commitment
to firm enforcement of sanctions in the interim period is the most critical
single element in its quest for financial viability.
2.47             A second important assumption is that NHA will gradually
increase rents on its rental properties from the present 5% on historical
cost to 7.5% by 1992, in conformance with its new Policy Statement.
Alternatively, these properties may be sold. This represents a substantial
increase of 50% over 5 years, or 8.5% annually, required to offset what is
presently a major cause of NHA's financial losses. Although the rental
portfolio presently valued at P165 million is expected to be sold off over
the next five years, the financial projections do not reflect these sales to
assess the Impact if delayed.
2.48          With respect to costs, it is expected that operating costs
(excluding interest) can be contained at approximately the current level of
about P110 million, in view of the present underutilization of existing staff
and NHA's more limited future role. These figures omit design, supervision



- 29 -
and site administration costs separately budgeted as part of development
costs (14%). Interest costs charged against income will drop from about P90
(US$4.4) million in 1988 to about P45 million in 1992, as a larger proportion
of interest costs are capitalized as part of unit sales prices.
2.49          Because of the changing nature of NUHA from a major mortgage
institution into a developer, total assets will remain relatively stable,
declining only modestly from P3.6 billion in 1988 to about P3.4 billion by
1992. Funds will be recycled by plowing the proceeds of asset (mortgage)
sales back into further development, and subsequently rolling over funds when
units are sold. However, works in progress and held for sale will still be
reduced from about 50% of total funds employed to about 38% by 1992.
Remaining   funds would be distributed among current assets (24%), rental
units and unsold mortgages (29%), reflecting fairly conservative assumptions
regarding NHA's interim collection efficiency and sales lags from time of
completion.   Assuming NHA achieves its income targets, total equity will
revert to about P1.7 billion by 1993, or about 50% of total assets, after
absorbing the losses in 1987-1989. The NHA's capital gearing ratio would
therefore remain quite conservative. The current ratio is also expected to
remain relatively strong at about 2.6. Agreement was reached at Negotiations
regarding NHA's achievement of key financial performance indicies.
C. The Social Insurance System
Home Development Mutual Fund
2.50      Obiectives and Fnctions.  The Home Development Mutual Fund (HDIF),
also known as Pag-IBIG, was created in 1979 as a mandatory savings scheme to
generate long-term funds for housing.   Pag-IBIG Funds are held and
administered by HDMF which in turn, re-lends to NHMFC under a five year
renewable trust; agreement. HDMF funds earn a minimum dividend of 7.5% plus
bonus dividends averaging about 2.5% comWpa.nded annually.   The accumulated
amount is returned to the employee at maturity of the membership in 20 years.
The Fund initially concentrated on the provision of housing loans for its
members through NHMFC, but, as pressures mounted for the Fund's abolition in
1984 (para 1.13), emphasis shifted to furnishing emergency/provident loans
which reach a larger number of Fund members.
2.51       Employee contributions to HDMF were initially mandatory at 3% of
the first P3,000 of basic salary per month; employers contributed another 3%.
In 1986 employee contributions were reduced to 1% of monthly earnings with
employers at 2% on the first P5,000 of earnings, and in December membership
was made voluntary. Membership campaigns by HDHF indicate that about half of
current members may continue on a voluntary basis.
2.52      HDMF's operational work consists largely of maintaining individual
member accounts, certifying eligibility of members for benefits, and
processing applications for loans and withdrawals. Since becoming voluntary,
HDMF has computerized its operations and begun issuing statements on members
savings accounts, more like a private bank.  The bulk of contributions are
deducted at source and collected from employers by the Fund's head office in
Manila, although about a third come through the Fund's collections agents,
chiefly 88S, GSIS and government banks.



- 30 -
2.53      Organization. Management and Staffing.  HDMF is governed by a Board
of Trustees composed of representatives from both employers and employees.
The Board sets HDMF's financial and operating policies and oversees its
performance.    Day-to-day  operations  are  the responsibility  of a  Chief
Executive Officer in charge of external affairs and a Deputy concentrating on
internal matters.  The Corporation employs just over 500 regular staff and
over 300 contractual staff, 80% of whom are in Manila and 20% are at the
seven regional offices.
2.54      From its inception until early 1986, HDMF and NHMFC shared the same
senior management, an arrangement which contributed to closer coordination
but at the same time blurred the legitimately separate interests of the two
institutions.   This arrangement ended with the appointment in 1986 of new
staff for HDlMF's key positions.
2.55      Operational Performance.  As of September 1987, the Fund had over 2
million members and nearly P7.7 billion in assets.   Assets were invested
primarily in (a) long-term member mortgages (P4.7 billion or 61% of total
assets); (b) cash andishort-term securities (P1.4 billion or 18% of total
assets); and (c) short-term emergency provident loans (PO.7 billion or 9% of
total assets).   Liquid assets are invested conservatively in government
securities.   In 1987, HDMF took over management of P4.7 billion (US$230
million) in member mortgages from NHMFC. It is presently in the process of
computerizing and updating these accounts. Technical assistance is included
under the project to assist HDMF in this task, and in developing an effective
at-source mortgage payment mechanism.
2.56        As of early 1986, about 4% of total Fund members had obtained
housing loans, 14% provident loans and 12% small emergency loans averaging
about P800 each.   Remaining members received tax-free dividends on their
savings  averaging about  10% from 1980  - 1985.   While  this  return
substantially lagged the 20% inflation rate over this period, it remained
competitive with the 9.6% commercial savings deposit rate.
2.57      Financial Performance.  HDMF's return on equity in recent years has
ranged from 10% to 11%. The Fund is liquid, with a current ratio of 117, and
Itas no long term debt. initial operating costs in 1981 were high, at 25% of
the prior year's total assets, but dropped to below 2% by 1986, the ceiling
stipulated by law.   The portion of start-up costs exceeding 2% has been
capitalized under deferred charges which totaled P102 million (US$5 million)
or 1.9% of total funds at end-1985. These costs are expected to be written
off in three years starting in 1989.
2.58        The new management appointed to HDNF implemented a program of
action in 1986 and 1987 to strengthen the institution, improve its efficiency
and effectiveness, and reduce operating costs. The Fund's computing capacity
has been doubled to allow more efficient operations. As noted in para. 2.16,
a decision was taken in August 1986 to terminate further losses by NHMFC on
the existing HDMF mortgage portfolio, and allow HDMF to manage its ovn
mortgage investments. This move eliminated NHMFC's negative spread, but will
have no adverse impact on HDMF since it will pay out to depositors only the
rate it receives on its mortgage assets. Thus, future earnings of HDMF will
be determined by the fixed-rate return realized on the P4.7 billion in



- 31 -
existing Pag-IBIG mortgages, as well as earnings on future loans to MImIC.
HDNF is likely to significantly improve collection efficiency on this
mortgage portfolio, for the reasons outlined in para. 2.16.
Social Security Svstem
2.59      Established in 1954, the Social Security System (SSS) administers
social security, medicare and employees compensation for employees in the
private sector.   As of end-1986,  SS8 had total assets of P31.2 billion
(US$1.5 billion equivalent), total staff of 3,500 and membership of 10.6
million.   About 57% of the system's portfolio was invested ir DBP and PNB
notes, propping up the ailing government banks, while the remainder was
distributed among other government securities (25%), housing loans (16%) and
misuellaneous investments (2%). The SSS earned an annual return on assets of
15% to 20% from 1975-1983, well above the inflation rate of 11.4% and 19.3%
in 1986.
2.60       In the past, the SSS extended mortgage credit to its members for
the purchase of new primary residences.   Members of at least 1 year's
standing are entitled to one mortgage loan during the course of membership.
The maximum loan amount is currently P150,000 for a term of up to 25 years
with repayment in equal monthly installments.   Rapidly escalating house
prices in the Philippines has lifted the ceiling on its mortgage loans from
P50,000 in 1982, an increase of three-fold in only five years.   Like GSIS,
SSS charged an interest rate that varied with loan size: 6% for the first
P30,000 and 9% on the balance. The blend rate on a typical loan amount of
P50,000 was therefore 7.2%. Borrowers are able to finance up to 90% of the
house value -- a practice which sometimes resulted in loans in excess of the
purchase price. Unlike most other lenders, SSS requires that the borrower
own a developed lot with no house before loan approval.   SSS then inspects
the house throughout its construction and releases the loan in phases as
construction proceeds.
2.61          From 1976-1986, SSS financed nearly  60,000 housing units,
representing about one third of all new stock.  Nearly all were completed,
contractor built units, but generally of much lower cost than NMHNC's.  No
breakdown of unit costs and affordability is available for SSS lending, but
loan sizes averaged close to the maximum of P50,000 during this period.
Although the majority of SSS mortgage lending is still concentrated in the
Metro Manila area, the proportion of loans going to the other regions has
been increasing and appears to exceed that of other mortgage lenders.
Collections on SSS units, however, are quite low and do not exceed the
sectoral average of about 60%. Housing investments have therefore served to
depress SBS' overall returns.
2.62       As of August, 1987 the SSS had committed another P2.1 billion in
construction lending to be converted to mortgage financing for units to be
built from 1987-1990, representing approximately 18,000 units and an average
cost of just below P120,000. However, beginning in 1988, SSS has withdrawn
from further direct lending, channeling funding for member loans through
MIMIC in accordance with government's new "unified lending" program.



- 32 -
Government Servige Insurance System
2.63      The Government Service Insurance System (GSI) was established in
1936 to provide a variety of insurance sarvices and retirement/disability
benefits for public sector employees.   All funds are derived from member
contributions or revenue on investments.   As of end-1983, ¢8I8 had total
assets of P15 billion (US$750 million equivalent), total staff of 4,400 and a
membership of 1.4 million.   Its investment portfolio of PIO billion was
distributed among salary and other loans (34%), real estate loans (27%), and
stocks and bonds (39%). G8IS earned a return on assets of 1% to 3% during
1975-1983.   Inflation over this period averaged 11.4% resulting in a net
annual loss in real terms of over 8%.   More recent data is unavailable as
annual reports were discontinued in 1984.
2.64       The OSIS has been one of the major participants in the primary
housing finance market, providing about P2 billion in housing loans between
1974 and June 1984. Over the decade from 1976-1986 05I1 contributed about
27,000 units or 16% of total new stock.   Thus far, most of GSIS mortgage
lending has been directed toward the upper-income group in the Metro Manila
area. In 1980 only 1.2% of its members qualified for the average mortgage of
P70,000 provided in that year.   Between 1978 and 1983, the average GI8S
mortgage doubled from P54,000 to P110,000.
2.65      Loans by GSIS are for a term of up to 25 years and carry graduated
Interest rates that increase with loan size, utilizing the same formula as
S88 (para. 2.60).   In addition, amortization may be made on a fixed or
graduated basis in an attempt to assist as many applicants as possible. This
has introduced a major risk element into affordability and collections. Like
SSS, GSIS has encountered serious collections problems.   "oans are also
extended to developers for housing construction.   The rate of interest on
construction loans is a flat 12% compounded monthly, with terms ranging from
18 to 36 months and a loan-to-value ratio of 70%.
2.66      As of Auwgust, 1987 GSIS had committed P700 million in new mortgage
financing for abvout 5,900 units to be built from 1987-1990, vith an average
unit cost of just under P120,000.  However, in accordance with E0 90, the
GSIS withdrev from further direct mortgage lending in 1988, channeling loans
instead to NHMFC to be used for member mortgages.
D. Coordination (HUDCC)
2.67       The coordination mechanism established under  thy, sectoral
rationalization plan calls for a Housing and Urban Development Coordinating
Council (HUDCC) comprising all public institutions with direct roles in
housing construction, financing, insurance or regulation (NHA, NHMFC, HLURB,
and HIGC), the major lending institutions for construction and mortgage
finance (SSS, GSIS, HDMP and DBP), government core agencies (DOY, NMEDA, DBN),
the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPM) and two private sector
representatives (Chart 40054).   The Council is chaired by a Presidential
appointee and functions essentially as a discussion and a policy making
forum.   To achieve the authority required to ensure effectiveness,  the



- 33 -
Council Chairman also chairs the Board of each direct housing institution
(NUA, NHMFC, HIGC, aud HLURB).   Recent legislative changes brought Into
question the legality of this arrangement, established under EO 90. However,
a recent opinion of the Department of Justice has verified its acceptability
under the new constitution. Without it, the sector would lack an effective
coordination mechanism.
2.68      A Technical Secretariat was also established to assist the Council,
containing four sections: Policy/Planning, Rerearch and Development,
Financial Monitoring and Management Information System (HIS).  Operations of
the Secretariat are managed by a Deputy Secretary General, to whom the four
sections report  (Chart 40054).   The Secretariat is lean,  comprising 12
professional staff plus support.   Its duties entail (a) follow-up on
decisions of the Council and its Chairman; (b) establishment of an integrated
sectoral data system (each institution currently works from an independent
data base with major discrepancies between them); (c) preparation, in liaison
with NEDA, of the Six Year Sectoral Investment Plan; and (d) monitoring of
the sector's performance against the Plan. Two final and critical functions
will be (e) oversight of the financial performance and viability of sectorial
institutions, and (f) conformance to their stated policies. The Secretariat
was established in early 1987, financed under Loan 1821-PH and is fully
functional.
2.69         Oversight beyond the sectoral level will occur through the
Government Corporations Monitoring and Coordination Committee (GCXCC),
established under EO 127-A dated July 22, 1987.



- 34 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Description
3.1     Objectives.   The project's long-term goal is the development of an
equitable, viable, and eventually self-sustaining system of housing
production and finance, with an increasing degree of privatization.   More
immediate objectives include:
(a)  improvement in the  institutional and policy framework,   including
elimination of functional duplications between public agencies and
competition with the private sector,   establishment of programmatic
operational links between NHA and NHMFC, improved financial viability
for these agencies, and greater specialization;
(b)  greater  efficiency   in  the  use of public resources, e.g. more
appropriate interest rates ahd spread policies, reduced    capital
subsidies with better vislbility and targeting of those subsidies on
the poor,   improved collection performance, and public sector
withdrawal from direct production of units affordable to the upper
half of the income curve, as well as from construction insurance;
(c) redirection of new housing stock to lower income groups through both
redirection of the housing finance system (and thus private
production) to low and middle income households between about the
40th and 80th percentiles, and through greater concentration by NBA
on production of new stock as opposed to resettlement;
(d) introduction of greater prudence into the sector's financial and risk
management and strengthening of HUDCCs' sectoral monitoring capacity;
(e) stimulation of the domestic economy and direct employment generation;
and
(f) assistance to the construction industry by identifying and addressing
key bottlenecks obstructing the recovery of small housing
contractors.
3.2     Description.  The project would support Government's sectoral reform
program as well as finance a portion of the five year investment program from
1988-1992.   The project therefore comprises:  (a) support for immediate
construction activities by the public or private sector through import
assistance for building materials, (b) support of a time slice of NHNFC's
mortgage purchase program for low cost units built by NHA and private
developers, and (c)  related technical assistance, training, equipment an-i
studies required to implement sectoral reforms and resolve anticipated
bottlenecks in the construction industry.
Part I: Construction Industry Support. About 47% of the loan or US$75
million would fall within the construction component which would finance
imported construction materials, a number of which have been in short
supply. These materials would be utilized by both private and public
builders to initiate production of units, the mortgages on which will be
purchased under Part II of the project. Subdivision development is



- 35 -
expected to take up to 36 months before reaching a significant volume of
sales. Although the volume of support represents about 15% of qualified
imports in the first year and is sufficient to help overcome key
immediate bottlenecks, when prorated over the five years it represents
less than 1% of mortgages purchased and therefore does not present
difficulty with double financing. A study is also being undertaken of
the current problems being encountered by small private builders and
contractors. Terms of reference have been agreed with the Construction
Industry Authority of the Philippines (CIAP), and consultants were
recently selected.
Part II: Mortgage Purchases.  Mortgage purchases, comprising the
remaining half of the loan or about US$80 million would finance about a
third of 63,000 units distributed in major urban areas throughout the
country. Units purchased would have to meet a range of stipulated sale
prices to ensure affordability (see pars. 2.20, Annex 3, and Annex 10)
and credit appraisal criteria established under NHMFC's guidelines.
Most would be serviced sites or core units for self-help completion.
Physical descriptions of unit types and costs are presented in Table
III-E of Annex 3. Though funds would initially be separately earmarked
for mortgage purchases from NHA and the private sector, unutilized
amounts will periodically be redistributed between the two categories.
Bank funds would be directed toward either SSS/GSIS/HDMF members or the
self-employed, though NHMFC is more likely to utilize Bank funds for the
latter. Annex 3 presents estimated housing demand and affordability, and
Annex 4 the sectoral investment plan including the estimated number of
units to be built and investment amounts.
(a) NHA Takeouts: Punds would be earmarked for residential mortgage
purchases by NHMFC from NHA for new serviced sites and upgrading
units affordable to families below the 50th percentile of the urban
income curve uurrently costing below P72,000 (US$3,500). It was
agreed at Negotiations  that a   target price distribution and
average affordability level will be maintained.   (Commercial and
industrial units would be sold by NRA generally for cash and
resettlement costs would be covered by Government.) The Bank would
finance 70% of NHA mortgages purchased by WHMFC from 1988-1992,
amounting to about US$30 million.   Borrowers would meet credit
appraisal criteria of NHMFC.  All serviced sites and about three
quarters of upgrading units are considered saleable, totalling
about 22,400 new units from 1988-1992 of which about 13,400 or 60%
would constitute additional housing (serviced site) stock;
(b) Private Sector Takeouts: Mortgages on units affordable to families
below the 70th percentile of the urban population, currently
costing below P107,000 (US$5,200) would also be purchased from
private sector developers in a range of agreed sale prices and
mortgage amounts.   It was agreed at Negotiations that a target
price distribution and average affordability level voild be
maintained by NHMFC.   Builders have already been advised of the
downward shift in NHMFC's mortgage funding availability and the
caps on higher cost mortgages, and some have began to design lower
cost units which respond to mass demand. NGOs have expressed
particular interest In this market. The Bank would finance 70% of



- 36 -
qualifying mortgages over a five year period, amounting to about
US$50 million. The NHNFC's overall beneficiary profile would
conform to an agreed curve established by IUDCC by number of units
and volume of financing. This distribution is presented in Annex
10 and was confirmed at Negotiations. An annual review would be
made to determine conformance to the agreed distribution.   The
NHYFC is expected to finance about 41,200 private sector units from
1988-1992 of which about 45% are likely to be Bank-assisted.
Government targets have been reduced about 75% to reflect
anticipated delays in program implementation.
Part III: Technical Assistance. Training. EquiOment and Studies. Funds
for technical assistance, training, equipment and studies costing about
US$5 million would be included, representing 1.5% of the total project
cost. Key among these would be the computerization of operations and
accounting systems of NHA, NHHFC, and the Council Secretariat, technical
assistance in establishing a sectoral MIS, assistance to NHA in
completing its asset disposition program, and studies on the
construction industry, the Right of Redemption Law, and NHEPC's future
funding options. Details of the technical assistance, training and
studies program are presented in Annex 7.  Nan-month costs including
fees, travel, and allowances are US$12,000 for foreign consultants and
US$1,500 for local consultants. A total oif 6.8 foreign staff years are
included and 17.9 local staff years. Complimentary grant assistance of
another US$1.5 million is being sought under bilateral arrangements and
from UNDP/HABITAT for building technology, and experimental programs to
speed upgrading and improve community participation. Cofinancing under
the Japanese grant facility also appears likely (see para. 3.4).
B. Cost. Financing Plan and Onlending
3.3       Cost.  Total project cost (Table 3.1) is estimated at about P6.6
bMllion (US$325 million equivalent) in current prices. The mortgage purchase
component covers a five year period from 1988-1992. Base costs are mid-1987
and physical contingencies of 15% as well as price contingencies are
incorporated into unit sales prices.  Annex llD and 14D present other key
assumptions used in the calculations. Domestic inflation rates of 5.5% have
been used for 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 9% for 1989-90, and 8% from 1991-92, and
for foreign exchange, rates of 3% for 1988-1990 and 4% thereafter.  Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at 41% of total project cost, representing a
blend of 100% of imported building materials, 30% of mortgage purchases, and
50% of technical assistance, training, equipment and studies. Land costs are
not expected to exceed about 20% of the mortgage. Project costs include
taxes estimated at US$12.5 million equivalent o:. 3.8%.
3.4       Financing Plan. The Bank would finance US$160 million or 49% of the
US$325 million total cost, representing 100% of estimated foreign exchange
requirements and a minor proportion (5%) of local financing. Remaining costs
would be split between SSS, GSIS, and HDNF together representing 51% as shown
in Table 3.2. Bank participation would represent about a third of NHUFC's
total program.   It was confirmed at Negotiations that the loan agreements
between NHYFC and SSS and GSIS have been signed.  Provision has been made for
Bank financing of technical assistance, training, equipment and studies.
However, US$1.8 million has recently been approved under the Japanese



- 37 -
Cofinancing Facility, and Government plans to seek other grant financing for
these purposes.   Loan funds would therefore be redirected into mortgage
lending or import supports for any items on which grant financing is secured.
In addition, Government has indicated that it will provide P180 million in
1988 and P320 million in 1989 for NHA construction advances required to build
the units being aurchased under the new program. This was confirmed at
Negotiations.   These funds would provide NRA permanent rollover financing
thereafter, and are not treated as part of project costs.
Table 3.1
PROJECT COST
---- P million --        ------ US$ million ----- %
Project Component    Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
I.   Construction
Industry Support    ---    1,530   1,530    ---      75.0   75.0    100%
II.  NHYFC Mortgages 1/ 3.499   1.499   4.998    171.5   73.5  *45.0
a. NUA              643      275     918     31.5   13.5   45.0      30%
-Upgrading                     420                    20.5      30%
-S/Sites                       498                    24.5      30%
b. Private Sector 2,856   1,224   4,080    140.0   60.0  200.0       30%
III. TA/Training
Equipment/Studies     51       51     102      2.5    2.5    5.0      50%
TOTAL 2/   3.550  3L.08    6.630    174.0  151.0  325.0       46%
1/ NHNFC'a 1988-1992 Total Program
2/ Costs include taxes estimated at $12.5 million or 3.8% of the total.
Table 3.2
FINANCING PLAN
Total Cost             Social Insurance System
Project Component         (US$ m)       WB          SSS/GSIS/HDMF
I.   Construction
Industry Support        75.0         75.0               0.0
II.  NHMFC Mortgages:       245.0         80.              165.0
a. NUA                 45.0         30.0              15.0
b. Private Sector     200.0         50.0             150.0
III. TA/Training
Equipment/Studies        5.0          5.0               0.0
Z L                                         1~325.0  160,0  165.0
% Share       100%         49%               51%



- 38 -
3.5        Onlendint: Loans to NHMFC from the Social Insurance System (SSS,
0818 and HDMF) will be for specified amounts at fixed interest rates to be
determined for each annual tranche. The present blend rate is 10.25% for
1987/88 drawdowns.   The 10.25% return to the Social Insurance System
represents a virtual tripling of the estimated 3%-4% return of the past (6%-
7% typical rate to beneficiaries less an estimated 3% spread to cover
administration)  and has been the target of much controversy since  its
introduction in early 1988. The provision of fixed rate loans to members is
considered a benefit of membership. At Negotiations agreement was reached
regarding the formula being used to establish the Social Insurance System's
lending rates. This formula is based on achieving at least prevailing market
rates for SSS's overall returns, a target which has been consistently
achieved (see para. 2.59). Two ongoing Bank-assisted studies will review the
suitability of the proposed housing sector rates. The first, under the
Economic Recovery Loan will assess the overall viability of the Social
Insurance System and the second, a Bank Financial Sector Study, will review
the fit of housing sector rates within the overall Philippine Financial
Structure.   Adjustments to the Social Insurance Rates could arise from
changes in Government policy as a result of these studies.
3.6          With respect to Bank funds, Government would be the Borrower,
onlending funds under the mortgage investment component as a peso loan to
HNFC for 20 years, at a fixed interest rate set annually during the project
life linked to the Soclal Insurance System rates. The agreed rate will apply
to drawdowns during a 12 month period. However, since Bank funds would
finance only the two lower income groups of borrowers, the Bank rate would be
pegged to the lower two of the three tiered rate structure on the Social
Insurance funds. The formula would currently result in an 8.5% rate which
reflects a margin of 0.8% over the Bank's current rate and is about the same
as Bank's average lending rate over the last 20 years.  The onlending rate
would be reviewed and agreed annually over vhe disbursement period.
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. These onlending terms were
confirmed at Negotiations.
3.7       Average borroving costs are expected to be about 9.7%.  Onlending
to sub-borrowers by NYMC will be at a positive spread of at least 2%. Terms
on new loans would range from 9% to 15% for up to 25 years, depending on loan
amount, and is expected to average just over 12%.  The proposed rates are
expected to remain positive in real terms for the foreseeable future, witb
inflation estimated at between 7.5% to 9% through 1995. Inflation over the
past three years dropped abruptly following the 1984 spike of 50%, to 23.1%
in 1985, 0.8% in 1986 and 5.5% in 1987.  Past and projected inflation and
interest rates are presented in Annex 8. The NHMFC will offer a long term,
fixed rate instrument since funding will be sourced from long term, fixed
rate  borrowings.   The  Corporation  will therefore  carry    no  term
intermediation risk on the new portfolio.   Terms for nonmember loans would
carry the same 2% spread as those for member loans. Terms and conditions of
nonmember loans effective for the first 12 months were   confirmed at
Negotiations (see Annex 10). Because of the P1.5 billion of higher interest
(open housing) loans presently in NHHFC's portfolio, the Corporation's spread
on its total portfolio is estimated to range from 4.5% in 1988 to 2.8% in
1993. Details of NHDFC's lending terms are presented in Annex 10.



- 39 -
3.8       In summary, the revised sectoral interest rate structure therefore
achieves two significant improvements: (a) a substantial 50% increase in the
lowest rate to subborrowers from about 6% to 9%, and (b) clear targetting of
the lowest rate on the poorest families. As noted in Para. 1.13(d), under
the previous rate structure NHA lent to the poorest families at 12%, NHMFC to
the most affluent at 9% and the Social Insurance System to those in between
at 6%-7%. Though scope exists for further improvement in the fit of sectoral
rates with prevailing market rates, the agreed rate structure represents a
distinct step forward which is judged to be as much as can be achieved in the
present political climate.
3.9        Loan amounts will not exceed 90% of the appraised value of the
property except who,re a warranty (buy back guarantee) is provided by the
originating entity, or a 2% credit insurance fee. Even in the latter cases,
however, a small    down payment  will  be  required  to  cover  selected
administrative  costs.   Table  3.3  below  outlines  loan-to-value   ratios.
Table 3.3
LOAN TO VALUE RATIOS
Without Warranty                        With Warranty
Below P60,000   Over P60,000         Below P60,000    Over P60,000
Proposed
Downpayment:    10%             20%                   0                10%
Loan to
Value Ratio:    90%             80%            98% 1/ - 100%           90%
1/ 2% credit insurance fee may be paid in lieu of warranty.
C. ImDlementation
3.10      National Home  Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) would be the
executing agency for the mortgage investment component. The Corporation is
administered by experienced staff from banking and real estate backgrounds.
It is adequately staffed and has undergone a recent reorganization to improve
the efficiency of future operations.   Paras. 2.1-2.28 and Annex 9 describe
NIMOC more fully.  Private developers, ngos, individuals, and the National
Housing Authority would all be eligible for mortgage purchases under the
program.  Mortgage loans would   be   made   directly   to   consumers   by
originating a&encies who would disburse payment to the builder for the unit
being acquired. The INMYC would then purchase the resulting mortgage from
the originating bank or entity. Financing of construction materials imports
will be handled by an existing unit within the Central Bank which is also
handling the Economic Recovery Loan.   The task is relatively simple,
involving the preparation of backup documentation on imports for disbursement
applications.



- 40 -
3.11      Responsibility for the associated program of technical assistance,
training, equipment and studies will lie with each respective agency,
monitored and coordinated by the HUDCC Secretariat, which will also help
coordinate collaborative efforts such as mortgage sales between NRA and
NHHFC.  An annual training program will be agreed each year against which
individual training opportunities will be assessed.
D. Procurement
3.12        About half   of the loan or US$75 million would be disbursed
against a list of imported construction materials agreed at Negotiations
(Annez 6) utilized by both the public and private sectors. Contracts costing
US$5.0 million or more financed under this component will be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for the procurement of materials by the private sector estimated to
cost less than US$5.0 million will be awarded on the basis of normal
commercial practices of the purchasers.   Public sector imports under
contracts below US$5.0 million will be procured in accordance with standard
government practices described in para. 3.10 which are acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts for commonly traded commodities will be undertaken through
organized international commodity markets or other channels of competitive
procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. A minor element (about 6%) of oil imports is
included in the list of qualified imports presented in Annez 6, but will not
exceed 20% of the import support component. This represents about 5% of
qualified petroleum products utilized for housing over the project period.
3.13     The remaining half of the loan or US$80 million would finance NHMFC
mortgages purchased from both the private sector and NHA.  With respect to
the US$30 million earmarked for NRA, all public sector works are procured
through local competitive bidding procedures governed by PD 1594 which has
been reviewed and found satisfactory.   Foreign firms may bid on contracts
offered under local procurement procedures in the Philippines and have
occasionally done so in the past.   Local procurement procedures are under
continuous review and modifications have recently been adopted partly in
response to an ongoing dialogue between the Bank and the Government aimed at
further improving local procurement efficiency.   Under the four previous
Bank-assisted projects with NHA, contract packages have typically been below
US$2.0 million and are not suitable for international competitive bidding.
However, any contract over US$2.0 million would be subject to ICB where
prequalification shows that foreign bidders are interested in competing.
3.14         The remaining US$50 million of mortgage purchases would be
earmarked for units developed by the private sector using a mixture of labor
contracting, full contracting, and direct in-house construction appropriate
to the particular situation. Such works would be designed and constructed to
plans and specifications approved by the Housing and Land Use Regulatory
Board (HLURB) and would carry certificates of conformity issued by the RLURB
after inspection. Subdivisions would conform to design stsndards specified in
BP220 as amended which are acceptable to the Bank.
3.15      About US$5 million (3%) of the loan would be used to finance
technical assistance, training, equipment and studies procured on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Consultant services would be procured



- 41 -
following Bank guidelines.
E. Disbursemen
3.16      The Bank would  disburse against 100% of the CIF price of directly
imported construction materials, 100% of technical -ssistance, training and
studies, and 70% of qualifying mortgage purchases (thus excluding costs of
land, interest and tazes). Mortgages affordable tV families belov the 70th
percentile would qualify for Bank financing.   Purchases by NHMFC of existing
NHA mortgages would not be financed by the Bank. Equipment purchases would be
eligible for Bank financing of 65% if imported and locally procured, 100% of
CIF cost if directly imported, and 100% of ex-factory cost if locally
manufactured. Adoption of an ARM policy and timetable for its implementation
would be a condition of disbursement for the second $40 million of the
mortgage financing component (para. 2.23(e)).
3.17          To ensure a smooth cash flow and expedite implementation, a
Special Account of US$6 million representing the equivalent of about four
months reimbursement would be established in either the Central Bank or a
government commercial bank.   The account would be mausaged by the Central
Bank. In view of the potentially large number of small transactions under
the mortgage and TA, training and studies components of the project,
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) may be used for payments below US$100,000
equivalent for an aggregate value of not less than US$500,000 equivalent.
Supporting documentation would be retained by NHMFC and made available for
inspection by the Bank.
3.18       The proposed Bank loan of US$160 million would be committed over a
period of five years FY89-FY93 and fully disbursed by December 31, 1994. The
project closing date will be June 30, 1994. No appropriate Bank profile
exists for this type of hybrid project. However, disbursement projections
(Annex 6) closely parallel a typical profile for development finance
operations in the Philippines, once adjusted to reflect the initial drawdown
for imported building materials and the Special Account, which is likely to
be established in about FY91 when mortgage drawdovns reach significant
volume. Prior to this date, Government may wish to open a smaller account.
Actual performance will depend on the ability of the private sector to
rebuild volume production in the targeted cost range, and the ability of the
NHMFC to efficiently process loans, including those originated by the public
producer, NHA.   If demand proves strong and NHMFC is able to achieve
significant efficiency gains through computerization and other measures,
disbursements could be completed over a shorter period. Expendltures for
building material imports and mortgage purchases made after August 1, 1987 up
to a ceiling of US$16 million would be eligible for retroactive financing.
Key elements of sectoral reforms were In place by July 1, 1987 (paras. 1.15-
1.21) and the bulk of those remaining would be in place prior to loan
disbursement. Actions noted in Annex 5 have been completed or are expected
to be taken prior to effectiveness.
F. Accounts. Audit and Reporting
3.19       Accounts and Audits.  Financial statements of the NHMFC will be
audited by an independent, external auditor acceptable to the Bank, and
submitted to the Bank together with the Auditor's report within 6 months of



- 42 -
the close of the Corporation's fiscal year. The audit will contain separate
statements on SOEs and the Special Account. The NHKFC has received qualified
audits from the Commission on Audit (COA) in recent years due primarily to
the manner in which it treated past losses which have now been written off.
Prospects for an unqualified audit in 1987 are therefore good.
Computerization of NHMFC's mortgage accounting and control system will be
completed under the project.   Future audits will therefore need to
incorporate relatively sophisticated EDP control procedures to protect NHHFC
from internal tampering and ensure the accuracy of the computerized records.
3.20     Assurances were received at  Negotiations that financial statements
for NHA would also be audited by an independent, external, auditor and that
these statements, together with the auditor's report would be submitted to
the Bank within 6 months of the close of the financial year.  The Housing
Authority has also received qualified audit reports in recent years (para.
2.39).   Improvements in NHA's accounting procedures have been agreed, and
further changes are planned as part of their Institutional Action Plan (Annex
13). It is therefore hoped that NRA, too, will be in a position to receive
an unqualified audit in 1987, following restructuring of its balance sheet,
approval of which is expected in 1988.
3.21      Repoting.  Quarterly reports will be prepared by (a) the NHHFC on
the mortgage purchase component of the project and (b) HUDCC's Secretariat on
the construction materials and technica; assistance, training, equipment and
studies component. Copies of the NHA's internal quarterly reports would also
be provided the Bank. Project completion reports would be prepared by NHMFC
and RUDCC's Secretariat on the two respective components within 6 months of
the project's closing date.



- 43 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
4.1          The   project's primary justification is that it would he: p
strengthen sectoral policy and institutions and improve the efficiency of
public housing investments.   Public expenditures would be reduced through
termination of several public corporations, reduction of both capital
subsidies (through tightened pricing policies) and financial subsidies
(through elimination of NHMFC's negative spread).   The introduction   of
private builders into lower cost, mass housing would help refocus the shelter
finance system on lower income groups, thus easing uncontrolled growth
pressures. This alone would comprise a major step towards a more realistic
approach to the country's housing problem. Associated construction activity
would provide stimulus to the domestic economy at a much-needed juncture.
While some of the preceding benefits are difficult to quantify, their
cumulative effect should result in significant sectoral efficiency gains.
4.2        Quantifiable benefits of the project include:
(a) about 54,000 units added to the housing stock (13,000 from NHU and
41,000 from NHMFC) of which nearly three quarters would serve
families below the poverty line (Annex 4, Table 1);
(b) 9,000 existing dwellings upgraded with utility services, secure
tenure and essential community facilities thus improving sanitary
environmental conditions (Annex 4, Table 1);
(c) approximately 120,000 man years of employment generated through
direct construction activities associated with mortgage purchases,
plus an unquantified ad4itional number through forward linkages
Involving the subsequent finishing, furnishing, landscaping and
maintenance of the homes built.
4.3        The private sector would benefit directly from the infusion of the
Bank's US$50 million for NHMFC mortgage purchases from private developers for
nonmember loans which SSS and GSIS would not otherwise finance, and from the
improved availability of imported building materials under the US$75 million
import support component.
4.4        Supply is  not expected to exceed about 20% of effective demand
over the Plan period due to the regearing effort of sector reforms, and the
need to rebuild the pipeline. Additional housing stock financed under the
project will take 2-3 years to build and will represent about 8% of effective
demand over the remaining Plan period and 14% together with other public
production. Privately financed units are expected to remain below 5%,
bringing total production to just below 20% (Annex 3).   Government targets
are set much higher at 50% overall, but have been discounted to allow for
transitional delays (Para 4.7). Housing completions are expected to build up
only in the last two years of the project. However, this transitional period
and the attendant delays are necessary and unavoidable to set the stage for
volume production in the following six year plan period which would
ultimately achieve a better match between supply and demand.



- 44 -
4.5        Rate of Return: Based on mid-1987 costs and surveys of rent levels
in major urban areas, the economic rate of return on the houses built under
the project would range from about 27% on serviced sites to 31%-37% on slum
upgrading depending upon location as shown in Annex 15. A 20% increase in
costs (e.g. due to construction delays) or a 20% decrease in benefits (e.g.
due to lower than expected rental levels or delays in realizing rental
income) would still result in a satisfactory return. The 20% figure is
considered a probable range of deviation in real terms. These relatively high
returns reflect thb scarcity of suitable accommodation and utility services.
Key assumptions and methodology are presented in Annex 15.
4.6        Risks. The primary risk is that such a broad and complex set of
reforms will prove difficult to actually implement and sustain and that the
process will become protracted, stagnate or even reverse. Even if delayed,
however, the reforms would still achieve major benefits. Significant actions
have already been taken, and the pace to date is promising taking into
account the unsettled overall conditions.   A second concern is that loan
recovery will not reach the 95% rate needed for NHNFC to remain viable at the
proposed interest rates. As noted in para. 2.15 NHUFC records currently show
recovery of only about 60%. Hovever, NHMFC indicates a programming flaw may
have overstated receivables, and actual recovery may be more in the order of
74%. The NHA has reported collections of 85% on a similar portfolio. Three
additonal recent changes will make sigaificant improvement in collections
performance likely. First, in future the Corporation will hold sole
responsibility for collection which in the past was shared with originating
banks, which insured the first three months receivables, and the HIGC which
insured the rest. Termination of HIGC insurance alone will place
accountability for collections clearly with NMIFC and should in itself
substantially improve performance.   In additon,  the NHNFC has made
significant strides in computer systems improvement in the last year, and in
tightening administrative procedures (paras. 2.21-2.22). Finally, the
Corporation's new management is strongly committed to to enforcement of
sanctions,   the most critical element in achieving the 95% target rate.
Retention of the higher yielding "open housing" loans should sustain NHMFC's
overall spread at about 3%-4.5% during the first few critical years, while
new systems and procedures are operationalized and tested. Results will be
monitored closely   and in the event NHIFC begins to show annual losses,
interest rates and/or fees would need to be increased.
4.7       A third risk is that it is likely to prove difficult to convince
developers of the profitablility of mass produced, low-cost, self help
units. Pressures are already building to revert to higher cost levels. To
make serviced sites and core units profitable, volume production is required.
Turnover is the key to profitability. Since most delays and eztra expenses
occur in the finishing stage of house construction when flaws and
miscalculations in foundations and framing show up, and since serviced sites
and core units free the builder from these stages, higher turnover of the
same volume of capital and thus greater profitability is theoretically
possible.  However, quick turnover hinges on the speed and reliability of
NHNFC's mortgage takeout.   Thus MU4FC's institutional capacity to deliver
prompt, reliable service represents an important corrollary risk. Major
efforts are underway by NHMFC to computerixe operations, and make better use
of subcontracting, both of which should result in efficiency gains.



- 45 -
Government's investment targets have also been reduced substantially for the
purposes of estimating project costs to reflect anticipated difficulties in
the private sector's transition to cheaper units.
4.8       A final risk lies in the possibility that NHA would be unable to
significantly reduce development costs and standards, and telescope the
timetable for land acquisition, site development and sales, all of rhich will
be required before payment is received under the new system.   Past
developments have spanned as much as a decade. Initial construction funding
will be required by NHA to fund development costs on the first tranche of
units to be sold to NHNFC.   A portion of these developmental funds are
expected to be raised by NMA through sales of existing mortgages to NMUIC,
private banks or finance companies.   The remainder will have to come from
Government (para 3.4).  If development becomes protracted, the Authority's
capital base could prove inadequate. However, NHA has moved closer to market
prices for land acquisition vhich should expedite voluntary sales and
retitling. Of the 1355 ha. estimated requirement from 1988-1992, about a
third or 455 ha. is now owned by NRA, sufficient to cover the first 18 months
of the program. Of regional requirements, 43% is now in NRA's possession. The
Authority therefore has made a good start.   The inherent restructuring of
incentives by disbursing against completed and sold units rather than
construction expenditures  should also help address this latter risk.  The
adequacy of NHA's capital base will bear close monitoring during project
Implementation.



- 46 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND iECONKENDATIONS
5.1       Agreement was reached at Negotiations with respect to:
(a) clarification of the powers of HUDCC (para 1.16), and of the HUDCC
Chairman's powers to chair the Boards of NIWFC, NRA, HI¢C and
HLURB (para. 1.15);
(b) Approval of the Committee on Privatization (COP) for sale of
)aunlad S&L (para. 1.16); and, under the parallel Public Corporate
Sector Loan, government's agreement in principle to privatize HIGC;
(c) the Sectoral Policy Statement, Action Plan and coverletter (para.
1.18 and Annex 5);
(d) NHMFC's Summary Policy Statement (para. 2.21); including the
average affordability level to be maintained by NHEFC for Bank-
assisted mortgages purchased from both NRA (para 3.2(a)) and
private builders (para. 3.2(b));
(e) Institutional Action Plans for NHMFC and NRA (paras. 2.22 and
2.44);
(f) agreement on terms of reference for strengthening internal
accounting and audit for both NEMCF and NHA (paras. 2.22 and 2.44);
(g) NHMFC's willingness to tightly administer collections, promptly
foreclose on delinquent borrowers and resell the associated
collateral (para. 2.28);
(h) the draft Portfolio Liquidation Plan prepared by NRA (para. 2.44
(i) The financial performance of NHMFC (para. 2.28) and NHA (para.
2.49), specifically that these institutions would:
(i)   carry  out  annual  reviews  of  interest  spreads  and
profitability beginning in 1989, and furnish such reviews by
June 30 each year to the tank for comments, and implement any
recommendations agreed;
(ii) not incur any new long term debt unless a debt servicing
ratio of at least 1.1 can be maintained; and
(iii) achieve agreed annual rates of return on equity.
(j) NHUFC's commitment to match the terms and conditions of mortgages
purchased or originated with the terms and conditions of funding
sources to ensure a continuing positive spread of at least 2%
(paras. 2.28 and 3.7);



- 47 -
(k) NHA's Policy Statement (para. 2.43);
(1) NHKFC's overall beneficiary profile by number of units and volume
of financing (para. 3.2(b));
(m) Government provision of P180 (US$9) million in 1988 and P320
(US$16) million in 1989 for NH. construction advances for the now
program (para. 3.4);
(n)  signature of the  588  and USIS loan agreements with NHMF¢ (para.
3.4);
(o) onlending terms from Government to NHMFC (para. 3.6) and from NHMWC
to sub-borrowers (para. 3.7), and the formula by which the Social
Insurance System will calculate its lending rate to NHMC (para.
3.5); and
(p) the approved list of imported building materials to be supported
under the project (para. 3.12)
5.2       The following would be conditions of Board presentation:
(a) appointment of a conservator for Bliss Development Corporation
(BDC) and legal assignment of BDC to the appropriate body for sale
(para. 1.15); and
(b) Govexunment agreement to transfer completed works built on behalf of
NWSS and other public agencies together with the associated
liabilities off NHA's balance sheet (para 2.44(d)).
5.3       The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) adoption of a Portfolio Liquidation Plan by NHA (para. 2.44); and
(b) Government approvals for the NHA's financial restructuring (para.
2.44(d)).
5.4     Subject to the  above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan to the Republic of the Philippines of
US$160 million for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
at the standard variable interest rate.



-49-
-- -
SN~WA
mamun r                      Pap  1
Nay 19, 198
International Bank For
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street NW.V.,
Washington, D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
Gentleen:
In connection with the prqposed Housing Sector Loan to the
Republic of the Philippines from the International Bank For
Reconstruction and Development, I ae pleased to transmit the
following documents setting out the Government's policies on the
huusing sector:
(1)     Housing Sector Policy Statement; and
(2)     The Sectoral Action Plan  to be undortaken by
Philippine Government housing agencies.
Very truly yours,
For the Republic of Philippines,
ChaLp   ,Phi I~pins Nego  ating Panel
For the Housing Sector Project
8b Fwot Alo d BaSnk OM.. AvMa Ave., Makati. M,M. CFO SOm 1424 Mliat1
Tel. No 8114251- 7 le. 2050/ 81162625 -231



- 50-
.z~mus oi
Page 2
Way 19, 1988
International Bank For
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
WashLngton, D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
Gentlemen:
Re: Philinginh Housin; Sector
Poliv Statement
The following statements will serve to clarify certain
provisions of the Philippine Housing Sector Policy Statement
transmitted to you under separate coverletter of Nay 19, 1988 in
connection with the proposed Housing Sector Loan to the Republic
of the Philippines:
(1) Regarding the priority in housing assistance to be
given to lower income households:   The Nedium-Term
Philippine Development Plan (ITDP) targets over 60% of
units for Urban household with incomes below the 50th
percentile. The NTDP sets out details of the proposed
distribution by number of units and volume of funds;
(2) Regarding regional distribution of housing assistance:
The NTDP targets over 60% to be in regions outside
Metro Manila. While the regional targets are based on
housing needs, it is expected that effective demand
will determine availment of home financing assistance.
(3) Our government's policies are that any subsidies as may
be given for housing shall be transparent and targeted
only for the poor.
(4) As defined by its enabling law, the Housing and Urban
Development Coordinating Council is a policy and
coordinative body and implementation of policies and
programs is done through its member agencies.
8th Floor Allied Bank Bldg., Avels Ave.. Meati, M.M. CPO Box 1424 Makati
Tel. Not 81518251 - 76 loc. 205/203 8125U9 - 31



- 51 -
Page 3
(5)- Regarding the objective to increase private sector
funding for housing mortgages:   Government recognizes
that this can best be through a realistic interest rate
structure, and it is our goal over the longer term to
move in this direction.
(6) Regarding government production of housing through its
sole producer, NHA: While a portion of serviced sites
will be sold to upper income households to achieve
social mix, the NHA will not engage in direct housing
construction for these upper income groups.
(7)  Regarding National Government funding for resettlement
of squatters:    This  will  be  done  through  grants,
subsidies and trust funds rather than through equity
contributions to NHA.
Very truly yours,
l~/S
Chairman
ousing and Urban Development
Coordinating Council



- 52 -
Page 4
PHIlIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
ImNA
HOUSING SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
A. Mandate/Objectives
1. The primary concern of the State is to make available housing and
shelter-related basic services to homeless urban households;
2. Priority shall be given in government housing assistance to lower
income households;
3. The maximum participation of the private sector shall be encouraged in
all aspects of housing;
4. The State will undertake programs to regularize land tenure of urban
squatters where possible and to provide suitable resettlement sites
where necessary;
5. The State will undertake measures to promote housing development to
generate employment and hasten economic recovery.
B. Guidelines/Stratemies
1. The State shall promote volume production of affordable housing on a
self-sustaining basis through a program of maximum cost recovery;
2. The production of housing units shall be undertaken where possible by
the private sector;
3. Government's primary involvement shall be in providing long-term home
mortgage financing for low and middle income groups;
4. Government shall endeavor to distribute housing assistance equitably
among all regions on the basis of need;
5. The energies and capacities of the informal sector and nontraditional
developers to produce housing stock shall be developed and
strengthened.
C. Government Housinf Structure
1. The key government housing agencies shall be: a) the National Housing
Authority, which shall be the sole government agency engaged in direct
shelter production; b) the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation,
which shall be the major government home mortgage institution; c) the
Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board, which shall be the sole
regulatory body for housing and land development; and d) the Home
Insurance and Guaranty Corporation, which shall encourage private
sector participation in housing development and finance through a
viable system of guarantees, loan insurance and other incentives;



- 53 -
AIR= I
Page 5
2. The activities of these agencies shall be coordinated by the Housing
and Urban Development Coordinating Council (HUDCC) whose Chairman shall
also serve as Chairman of the key housing agencies;
3. In addition to the key housing agencies, membership in HUDCC shall
include: a) tea housing funding agencies (Social Security System,
Government Service Insurance System and Home Development llutual Fund);
b) support agencies (National Economic Development Authority,
Department of Finance, Department of Budget and Management, Department
of Public Vorks and Highways, and Development Bank of the Philippines;
and c) representatives from the private sector.
HUDCC shall have the following functions: a) to formulate natLonal
objectives for housing and design strategies for accomplishing them; b)
to determine the participation and coordinate activities of the key
housing agencies; c) to monitor, review and evaluate activities of
these agencies; d) to assist in the maximum participation of the
private sector in housing; e) to recommend housing legislation; and f)
to formulate guidelines for disposition of assets of housing agencies
not required for their primary mandate.
D. Housina Finance
1. Long term home financing assistance shall be directed to low and middle
income groups who are unable to secure private mortgage loans;
2. Fund sources for home mortgage financing shall be widened to cover a
significant portion of need of members, both private and government, of
social insurance funds as well as non-members;
3. NMFC will develop its primary mortgage operations into a viable and
self-sustaining business with provisions for annual increases in volume
in proportion to need;
4. NHBMFC shall match borrowing and lending rates and terms for all its
home-lending programs to ensure viability;
5. NIMFC shall endeavor to equitably distribute its home financing among
all regions on the basis of need;
6. Land acquisition and development financing assistance shall be
developed for community self help projects;
7. The secondary mortgage market will be developed in order to increase
private funds for low cost housing mortgages.
E. Housina Production
1. Volume production of low-cost and economic housing units shall be
undertaken by the private sector. Government shall



- 54 -                              AML 1
Page 6
undertake housing production only when the private sector is unable or
unwilling to do so;
2. The NHA shall be the sole government producer of housing and shall
focus its efforts in providing housing assistance to households with
incomes below the poverty line who cannot be served by the private
sector;
3. The NHA shall endeavor to be self-sustaining by maximizing recovery of
costs on all its projects;
4. Resettlement projects shall be undertaken for squatters occupying
endangered areas or areas for priority infrastructure projects. These
projects will be funded by the National Government and implemented by
the NRA;
5. The delivery of basic utilities and services to urban poor
beneficiaries will be undertaken where possible by the concerned
national agency or local government;
6. The HA will give priority in the planning and implementation of its
projects to blighted urban areas designated as Areas for Priority
Development.
1. Land development and house construction standards shall be liberalized
to the maximu extent possible without sacrificing safety and health to
make housing more affordable to lower income households;
2. ELRB will continuously improve systems and procedures for processing
of permits, clearances and licenses in order to facilitate new land and
housing development;
3. ILRB will continue to undertake the protection of buyers of subdivision
lots and housinL units through the regulation of the real estate
industry and the adjudication of relevant complaints;
4. HBL shall assist local authorities in town planning and zoning in
order to achieve optimum land utllization in dynamic balance with the
environment.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIAL,kC.ANANG
Manlla
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 90
IDENTIFYING THE GOVERNMENT AGENCIES ESSENTIAL FOR THE NATIONAL
SHELTER PROGRAM AND DEFINING THEIR MANDATES, CREATING
THE HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT COORDINATING COUNCIL,
RATIONALIZING FUNDING SOURCES AND LENDING MECHANISMS FOR
HOME MORTGAGES AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
wHEREAs, Government recognizes that shelter is a basic
need for which low and middle income families, particularly
in urbanized areas, require assistance;
WHEREAS, Government has approved a six-year National
Shelter Program which aims at providing increased levels of
such assistance on a nation-wide basis;
WHEREAS, there is a need to define the mandates of govern-
ment agnecies involved in housing and to better coordinate
and monitor their activities;
WHEREAS, there is also a need to establish a system that
will provide the funds required for long-term housing loans
on continuous, self-sustaining basis;
WHEREAS, there is likewise a need to encourage private
sector participation in low-cost housing and finance;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, CORAZON C. AQUINO, President of the
Philippines, do hereby order:
Title I - HOUSING AGENCIES AND MANDATES
SECTION 1. Key Agencies. To ensure the accomplishment
of the National Shelter Program, the following primary govern-
ment housing agencies, any provision of existing laws and
their respective charters to the contrary notwithstanding,
are hereby mandated to:
a)   National Housing Authority - The National Housing
Authority shall be the sole government agency



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page Z
engaged in direct shelter production. It shall
focus its efforts in providing housing assistance
to the lowest 302 of urban income-earners through
slum upgrading, squatter relocation, development
of sites and services and construction of core-
housing units. In addition, it shall undertake
programs for the improvement of blighted urban
areas and provide technical assistance for private
developers undertaking low-cost housing projects.
Development of its existing properties for housing
projects for income-earners above the lowest 302
may be continued provided that funds generated
thereon are utilized for the attainment of its
primary mandate.
b)   National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation - The National
Home Mortgage Finance Corporation shall te the major
government home mortgage institution. Its initial
main function is to operate a viable home mortgage
market, utilizing long-term funds principally pro-
vided by the Social Security System, the Government
Service Insurance System and the Home Development
Mutual Fund to purchase mortgages originated by both
private and public institutions that are within
government-approved guidelines. It is also charged
with the development of a system that will attract
private institutional funds into long-Eerm housing
mortgages.
c)   Human Settlements Regulatory Commission - The Human
Settlements Regulatory Commission, renamed as the
Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board, shall be the
sole regulatory body for housing and land develop-
ment. It is charged with encouraging greater private
sector participation in low-cost housing through
liberalization of development standards, simpli-
fication of regulations and decentralization of
approvals for permits and licenses.
d)   Home Financing Corporation - The Home Financing
Corporation, renamed as the Home Insurance and Guaranty
Corporation, shall assist private developers to
undertake low and middle income mass housing pro-
duction and encourage private institutional funds
and commercial lenders to finance such housing
development and long-term mortgages through a viable
system of guarantees, loan insurance and other incen-
tives.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
SECTION 2. Support Agencies. To ensure that the funds
required for long-term housing loans are available on a con-
tinuous and self-sustaining basis, the following support
agencies, any provision of existing laws and their respective
charters to the contrary notwithstanding, are hereby mandated to:
a)   Home Development Mutual Fund - The Home Development
Mutual Fund will continue to administer provident fund
contributions collected from member employees and
employers, utilizing funds not required for provident
benefits for housing loans for members, and, in addi-
tion, will be charged with the development of saving
schemes for home acquisition by private and government
employees.
b)   Social Security System - The Social Security System
shall be the primary provider of funds for long-term
housing mortgages for low and middle-income private
sector employees.
c)   Government Service Insurance System - The Government
Service Insurance System shall be the primary provider
of funds for long-term housing mortgages for low and
middle-income government employees.
Title II - THE HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATING COUNCIL
SECTION 3. Creation; Main Function; Principal Office.
There is hereby created a Housing and Urban Development
Coordinating Council, hereinafter referred to as the Council,
under the immediate control and supervision of the President
of the Philippines, charged with the main function of coordi-
nating the activities of the government housing agencies to
ensure the accomplishment of the National Shelter Program.
The Council shall have its principal office in Metropolitan
Manila.
SECTION 4. Composition. The Council shall be composed
of the following:
a.   A Chairman, who shall be appointed by the President
of the Philippines;
b.   The Heads of the primary government agencies and the
support agencies for funding for housing enumerated
above;
c.   One representative each from the National Economic
and Development Authority, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Budget and Management, the Ministry



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Public Works and Highways and the Development Bank
of the Philippines; and
d.   Two representatives from the private sector to be
selected by the Council.
SECTION 5. Powers and Functions of the Council. The
Council shall have the following powers and functions:
a.   To formulate national objectives for housing and
urban development and to design broad strategies
for the accomplishment of these objectives;
b.   To determine the participation and coordinate the
activities of the key government housing agencies
in the national housing program;
Co  To monitor, review and evaluate the effective exer-
cise by these agencies of their assigned functions;
d.   To assist in the maximum participation of the private
sector in all aspects of housing and urban development;
e.   To recommend new legislation and amendments to exis-
ing laws as may be necessary for the attainment of
government's objectives in housing;
f.   To formulate tne basic policies, guidelines and imple-
menting mechanisms for the disposal or development
of acquired or existing assets of the key housing
agencies which are not required for the accomplish-
ment of their basic mandates;
g.   To exercise or perform such other powers and functions
as may be deemed necessary, proper or incidental to
the attainment of its purpose and objectives.
SECTION 6. Powers and Functions of the Chairman. The
Chairman of the Council shall serve as ex officio Chairman of
the governing Boards of the key housing agencies. To assist
him in the fulfillment of his duties, the Chairman is hereby
authorized to create a Council Secretariat with a staff of
qualified personnel.
SECTION 7. Council Secretariat. The Secretariat shall
be headed by a Secretary-General to be appointed by the
Chairman of the Council. The Secretary-General shall be an
ex officio member of the Council and shall be responsible
for the execution and administration of its approved policies
and measures.



-59-                         ANNEX 2
Page 5
SECTION 8. Appropriations. To cover initially the
expenses of the Council and the Secretariat, the unappropriated
funds of the Ministry of Human Settlements for the Shelter
Secretariat shall be utilized together with proportionate
contributions of the key government housing agencies which
is set at TEN MILLION PESOS (610,000,000.00). Thereafter,
the necessary funds shall be appropriated every Fiscal Year
in the General Appropriations Act.
Title III - RATIONALIZING THE FUNDING SOURCES
AND LENDING MECHANISMS FOR HOME
MORTGAGES
SECTION 9. Funding Sources. To enable the Social Security
System, the Government Service Insurance System and the Home
Development Mutual Fund to provide improved benefits to their
members and to generate the necessary long-term funds for
housing, a rationalization of all employer and employee contri-
butions for all social insurance and provident fund benefits is
hereby directed to include the following:
a.   Raising the Social Security System maximum compen-
sation, inclusive of the Cost of Living Allowance,
as basis for contributions from P1,000.00 to
t3,000.00;
b.   Making contributions to the Home Development Mutual
Fund voluntary on the parts of both employees and
employers;
C.   Instituting a single mandatory contribution rate
for employees and employers for all social insurance
programs.
SECTION 10. Home Development Mutual Fund as Voluntary
Fund. In the implementation of the above rationalization
program, the following shall govern the operations of the
Home Development Mutual Fund:
a.   All existing contributions together with their
accumulated earnings shall be retained in the
Home Development Mutual Fund until their maturity
in accordance with existing rules and regulations.
b.   Membership in the fund for new private and govern-
ment employees and their respective employers shall
be voluntary after December 31, 1986.
c.   After December 31, 1986, existing members, both
employees and employers, shall have the option to
con:inue or discontinue new Fund contributions.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
d.   To encourage provident fund savings for home acqui-
sition, all government instrume-ntalities, agencies
and corporations shall match the voluntary contri-
butions made by government employees in accordance
with existing ratios. Private employers are urged
to match the contributions of their employers who
opt to continue their membership in the Fund.
SECTION 11. Implementing Rules. The Presidential Com-
mission on Government Reorganization (PCGR) is hereby instruc-
ted to draft implementing rules for the rationalization of
the Home Mortgage Financing System and for the new Home Deve-
lopment Mutual Fund guidelines to take effect on January 1,
1987. The National Economic and Development Authority
is hereby instructed to coordinate the drafting of the imple-
menting rules for the rationalization of all social insurance
programs to take effect not later than March 31, 1987.
SECTION 12. Home Mortgage Financing System. Complementary
to the rationalization of the Funding Sources as above provided,
an integrated home mortgage financing system is hereby adopted
with the following features:
a.   Lending Guidelines - Amounts financed, interest rates,
and terms on home mortgages to be purchased by the
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation shall be
determined by the Council on recommendation by its
technical staff which shall include representatives
of the funding support institutions.
b.   Allocation of Fund Contributions - For 1987, the total
amount to be made available for long-term mortgages
under the National Shelter Program will be tA.2
Billion. The Social Security System, the Government
Service Insurance System and the Home Development
Mutual Fund will contribute a total of f3.4 Billion,
to be allocated by the National Economic and Develop-
ment Authority among the agencies in an equitable
manner. The National Government shall contribute
the balance of funds required. Thereafter, each
institution, on recommendation of the Council, shall
set a fixed percentage of their annual investible
funds for long-term home mortgages. These funds
shall be made available to the National Home Mortagage
Finance Corporation under terms which ensure their
repayment.
c.   Lending Rates Chargeable to the National Home
Mortgage Finance Corporation - Funds shall be used



- 61 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 7
by the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
principally to extend mortgage loans for the members
of the funding agencies. For this, the agencies
will charge the National Home Mortgage Finance Corpora-
tion annual interest equivalent to the average interest
rate charged to members under terms approved by the
Council less a reasonable spread to cover the National
Home Mortgage Finance Corporation's administration
costs as well as adequate provisions for loan losses.
The funding agencies may also make direct loans to or
purchase securities from the National Home Mortgage
Finance Corporation. In this event, interest rates
and terms shall be as agreed between the National
Home Mortgage Finance Corporation and the funding
institution.
SECTION 13. Interim Arrangements. A phasing-in process
for the implementation of the Home Mortgage Financing System
as above provided shall be determined and implemented by the
Council over a period not to exceed six months. In the interim,
the Social Security System, the Government Service Insurance
system and the Home Development Mutual Fund shall continue
with their home mortgage lending activities provided that the
beneficiaries, lending packages, rates, terms and procedures
shall be made uniform and in accord with the National Shelter
Program not later than December 31, 1986. Such loans shall
be considered as partial compliance with each agency's
funding commitments for the year.
Title IV - OTHER PROVISIONS
SECTION 14. Special Provisions. To further assist the
housing agencies in the fulfillment of their primary objec-
tives, the following are directed to be undertaken:
a.   Thk  Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System,
within its area of jurisdiction, shall imme-
diately take over water and sewerage systems
completed by the National Housing Authority;
b.   The direct housing develoiment activities of the
Human Settlements Development Corporation's
housing and construction materials subsidiaries
as well as of the Land Investment Trust adminis-
tered by the Home Financing Corporation shall be
phased out within a period of three (3) years
from the effectivity of this Executive Order.
All concerned agencies shall, not later than
March 31, 1987, submit to the Council their
respective phasing-out programs. Whatever net



-62-                        ANNEX 2
Page 8
proceeds realized therefrom shall be turned
over to the National Government.
C. The Social Security System and the Government
Service Insurance System shall be allowed to
engage in bridge development financing of low
and middle income mass housing projects;
d. The National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
shall be recapitalized so that its unimpaired
capital after realistic provisions for losses
amounts to W5OO million.
e. The Home Finance Corporation shall be recapi-
talized to enable it to fulfill its objectives.
SECTION 15. Separability. The provisions of this Execu-
tive Order are declared to be separable and if any provision
or the application thereof is held invalid or unconstitu-
tional, the validity of other provisions s1hall not be affected.
SECTION 16. Repealing Clause. All laws, orders,
issuances, corporate charters, rules and regulations or parts
thereof inconsistent with this Executive Order are hereby
repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 17. Effectivity. This Executive Order shall
take effect immediately.
Done in the City of Manila, this 17th day of December,
in the year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and eighty-six.
By the President:
/A    ,
.AOKER P. ARROYO
Executive Secretary



- 63 -                             ANNEX
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
HOUSING DENAND AND AFFORDABILITY
1.         This Annex presents the key data and assumptions underlying the
estimates of housing demand and affordability presented in Chapter I.
URBAN GROWTH AND HOUSING DEMAND
2.        Table II-A presents estimated housing needs and affective demand by
year from 1970 through the year 2000, together with actual and projected
supply through publicly assisted programs. Population figures and annual
growth rates reflect NEDA estimates for national population, and mission
estimates of urban growth, reflecting a blend of NEDA, EPD and USAID
projections. Differences between mission estimates and Government
projections, however, are not significant.
3.        Urban housing needs reflect new growth slone, and do not include
provisions for replacement of unsatisfactory existing stock or deterioration
of stock in future. Upgrading activities are therefore excluded from "need"
calculations per se and are similarly excluded from "supply" calculations.
Needs have been translated to effective demand through elimination of the
lowest income 15% of the urban population, who are assumed to be unable to
afford a new unit. Considerations of current housing ownership, or the
potential demand for homeownership were not taken into consideration in
calculations of effective demand, since such demand  does not distinguish
between rental and owner occupied units. Calculations of effective demand
therefore include both rental and owner-occupied units.
4.        Effective demand  and projected supply through public assistance
programs by income group serv._d is presented in Table II-B and Figure II-C.
Income data reflects the NCSO December 1985 Survey, increased by 6.3%
reflecting inflation of 0.8% in 1986, and an estimated 5.5% for 1987.
AFFORDABILITY
5.         Affordabilty calculations are shown in Table II-D. It has been
assumed that a family can afford about two times its annual income for
shelter, resulting in mortgage amounts of about P48,700 (US$2,400) for
families at the 30th percentile, P72,000 (US$3,500) for those at the 50th
percentile, and P138,000 (US$6,700) for those at the 80th percentile. The
commensurate unit sale prices, assuming a 10% downpayment, would be about
P54,000, P80,000 and P153,000 respectively. On this basis, families would
spend respectively not more than a maximum of 22%, 28% and 34% of their
monthly income to service the mortgage. The differences reflect NHMFC's
tiered interest rate structure for families at different income levels.
Families choosing a lower cost unit would spend lower proportions of monthly
income. These are considered acceptable as maximums in view of the
probability of additional income being obtained through subletting of rooms,
and other informal sources.



m m-c
Table MMn-A
URBAR GROW TS B, NOU SING NBBD AND SUPPLY
TOTAL           ---- - ---- URBAN   POPULATION  --------- -                  aOU8 1O
POPULAT ION                                                                         NBEDS                    SUPPLY
_ _- -  PSTION  IURU      -    ANAUAL IJZEASE              A N 0 D_               _     _ _ _
D B K A N D         i8h Rstal"at   Low Estimat
Total   Arnal       Urban   Ammual  M3 556              Urban               No. 'mIt_
TEaR   Population Growth   Populatlon Ggowth  ppllba    t    Population EN 05.56   SNeeed"   Effetive go. of I Deai go. of  S De
'000     Rate       '000 1t  Rate  '000       Urban     '000      ppllhs   Cl.02hhlu) D..u2 21 Unlts 31 MNt Unlte  xMt
1970     36,648   2.71         12.160           2,187  33.02      514.000    92.446      90.633    77,038     NA    Ka    NA        VA
1971     37,828   2.71         12,674    4.2X   2,279   33.51     536,000    96,403      94.513    80.336     NA    VA    NA        NA
1972     38.834    2.7X        13,210   4.22  2,376  34.02    558,000   100.360          98.392    83,633     NA    NA    NA        NA
1973     39,847   2.71         13,768    4.22  2,476   34.51      582,000   104,676    102,624    87,230      NA    NA      NA      NA
1974     40,927    2.72        14.350    4.21   2,581   35.11    607,000   109,173    107,032    90,977        NA    NA    NA       NA
1975     42,015   2.81         14.957   3.81   2.690   35.61    568.000   102.158    100,155    65.132         Ka    NA    NA       NA
1976     43,203    2.82        15,525    3.91  2,792   35.92    590,000   106,115    104,034    88.429    11,000    122  11.000    122
1977     44,424   2.82         16,115    3.82  2,898   36.32      612,000   110,072     107,914    91,727    12,000    132  12,000    1n
198      45.680   2.81         16,727    3.92   3.008   36.62     635,000   114,209    111.969    95,174    13,000   141  13,000    141
1979      46,972   2.92        17.362    3.82   3,123   37.02    659,756   118,661      116.334    98,884    13.000    131  13,000    132 
I 1W0 DAT A Bt ISTIESM B1 IAl                                                                                                                           01
1960     48,317    2.52        18,022    3.82   3,241   37.32     684,827   123,170     120.755   102.642    14,500   142  14,500    14 2       
1981     49,525   2.5X         1t,707    3.82   3,364   37.82     710,850   127,851     125,344   106.542   14,500   142  14,500    142                1
1982     50,764    2.52        l9,.-    3.82   3,492   38.31      737,862   132.709    130.107   110.591    14,532   131  14.532   1i
1963     52,033    2.52        20,155    3.82   3,625   38.71     765.901   137,752     135,051   114.793    27,624   243 27.624   242
1964     53,334    2.52        20,921    3.81   3,763   39.21     795,005   142,967     140,183   119,155   29.186   241  29.186    242
1965     54,668    2.42        21,716    3.81   3,906   39.72     825.216   148,420     145,510   123,683    13,700   112  13,700    in
1986     55,967   2.52         22,541    3.82   4,054   40.32     856,574   154,060     151,039   128,383     4,000    31   4,000      32
PLON PDR20:
1967     57.360    2.42        23,396    3.81   4,208   40.81     889,124   159,914     156,779   1S3.262   59,628   451  2,876        22
1968     58,720    2.4X        24,287    3.72  4,368   41.42      898,623   161,623    158,454   134.666    59.900   441  14,850    11u
1969     60.100    2.3X        25.186    3.7X   4,530   41.92     "1.872   167,603      164.317   139,669    78.605   561  17,850    132
1990     61,480    2.32        26,118    3.62   4,697   42.51     940,234   169,107    165,791   140,922    65.664    471 24,700   1i
1991      62,870    2.22       27.058    3.62   4,867   43.02     974.082   175,195     171,759  145.996    73,717   502  22,875    162
1992     64,260    2.22        28,032    3.62   5,042   43.62   1,009,149   181,502    177,943   151,251   85,780   572  33,*15    222
PLAN PIU3OD TOAL:        5,643,085 1,014,943     995,043   845,786   423.294   502 116,566   142
:UWM
1993     65,674    2.22        29.041    3.62   3,223   44.21   1,045,479   188,036     184,349   156,696
1994     67.119    2.02        30.087    3.62  5,411   44.82   1,083,116   194,805    190,965   162.338
1995     68,480    1.9X        31,170    3.6X   5,606   45.52   1,122,108   201,818     197.861   168.182
1996     69.773    1.9X        32,292    3.52  5,808   46.32   1,130,212   203,276    199.290   169,396                                                 X
197      71,067    1.92        33,422    3.52  6,011   47.02   1.169,770   210,390      206,265   175,325
1998     72,426    1.92        34,592    3.52  6,222   47.82   1,210,712   217,754      213.484   181,462
199      73.812    1.9:        35,802    3.5X   6,439  48.52   1.253,087   225.375      220.956   187,813
2000      75,224               37.056    3.52   6,665   49.31
------------------------------__________----------------------
11 Urban pep  etio  fiusa baed on 3.8X growth rate oer 1979 urban Population. Other years also 4drived from   an oth rate ea
kown population base.
21 Need  Le" loest icome 15 of households. rem ef 'mits (rental or _d) required to _ea pa" with growth in af*fedable  moes.
3/ 1976-1961 t9tal production   _, distribution by year estlated.



65 -                                          ANNEX 3
Page 3
PHILIPPtHES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
,.ia* 111-3
STRUCTURE OF URBAN HOUSING DEMAND AND SUPPLY
ANNUAl NUSEHOLO                                 DENAND                             SUPPLY
INCUIE           UNIT COST           PLAN PERID (1987-1992)            PLN PEMIOD (1967-1992)
(ep )       ...................  ..................................................................
X            1987         PAXIIM   MAXINUN   NO. OF           EFFECTIVE DEKAND I/  -- TARGET --   -- LOW ES N--
INCONE        at      *-.............      UNIT    NORTGAGE   UNITS    X    .................   .-          X FF             X 1FF
DECILE    POPULATION   FROM       TO    SALE PRICE  AMUNCT   NEEDED  AFFDSL   NURSER    X           NURSER  DEWN  URSER    DEND
O   *- 3OTH   30X           0   22,463     54,111   48,700   298,513   50.0  149,56  17.6"         198,948  133l      54.76   371
31ST-- 50tN   20X      22,463   33,191      80,000   72,000   199,009  1OO.O  199.009  235.5         60,4     401     22,147   11
S1ST-- 80TH   301      33,191   63,665    153,333  138,000   298,513  100.0 296,513  35.3X          110,056   371     30,W    101
1IST-- iOTN  201      63,465   AND UP      AND UP   AND UP   199,009  1OO.O  199,009  Z3.51         33,864   17X       9,325    5X
TOTAL:  99S,03   85.01 84S,787 100.01         423,294   50X    116,505   141
95,0U3          84S,787
................................................................................................................................
1J OKUHERSfIP NOT USED AS A CONTRAINT TO DOM     SINC  IT IS ELASTIC AND WILL RESPOID To1.   5/30/86
INCREASED  SUPPLY, AND SINCE FIORES REPRESENT NEI STOCK REWIREMHETS (I.E. WHETHER OW ED                   GRAPE: DOWNUP
R RET1 ).
Table III-C
HOUSING DEMAND AND PUBLICLY ASSISTED SUPPLY
Philippines Plan Pelod 1987-1992
350
EJ ffecfl Dsemand
m             M    9UmSv4z>V rm nZe
50 i-                            4                      P                        O 
MotoeAint   PO-U8,000               48.000-n72,OOO         172,000-fl35,0'00          V0  1138,000
Affrdbleto    % OibAf               30fhfx                  5OI-01h%s                BlOh%Is
Word Bari40591



- 6.6 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table III-D
INCOMES AND AFFORDABLE UNIT COSTS (1987)
A 1 N U A L  I N C O  E     *   AFFORDABLE  MORTGAGE   ANT                        M A X
.................. C U N   ----------------------------------------------  ,8 A L I
URBAN AREAS ONLY      I                                 MORTGME AOMW       P R I C 
1987 I/          0 F       EFFECTIVE PROPORTION    22.17 X FAMILY IC   --------
N H       INTEREST   OF HH         ...............   ASSUMING
FROM             TO                RATE      INCOmE         FROM      TO    10% DOWN
0         13,266    10%        9.08        22%              0    28,788    31,986
13,266        17,948    20t         9.0%        22%        28.788    38,946    43,274
17,948        22,463    30%         9.0%        22%        38,946   48,745    54,162
22,463        27,489    40%         9.08        22%        48,745    59,652     66,279
27,489        33,191    50%        12.0o        28%         59,652    72,025    80,027
33,191        40,334    60%        12.08        28%         72,025    87,526    97,251
40,334        49,430    70%        12.0%        28a         87,526   107,262    119,180
49,430         63,665    80%       15.0%        28%        107,262   138,153    153,504
63,665        93,973    90%        15.0%        34a        138,153   203,922    226,580
93,973        AND UP    100%       15.0%        34%        203,922   AND UP    AND UP
I/ NCSO 12/85 FINAL SURVEY DATA (REFLECTING CEILINGS OF INCOME BRACKETS           ANXINCOK
INCREASED BY INFLATION TO 12/87 (6.3% TOTAL, REPRESENTING 0.8% IN 1986
AND 5.5% ESTIMATED FOR 1987).
Table III-4
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OF UNITS
Mortgage    Affordable
Amount     at __ilo                  Physical Description
P 20,000 1/     15th       65)2 lot only.    Serviced  as  noted below with
indivldual water connection & commu-:il septic tank.
No superstructure construction.
P 31,000        15th       Upgrading  of  an  existing  dwelling  with  8M
carriageway paved road with dual curb, waterborne
individual sanitation, individual lot water
connections, & electricity. Tenure to 40)1 plot.
P 35,000 1/     20th       50)2 lot 5h frontage, 20.6 12 rowhouse design core
house for self-help completion with 2 cement block
coumunal walls.
P 66,000 1/     50th       6512 lot, 6.5h frontage, 30)2 rowhouse design core
for self-help completion, with four walls and
galvanized  iron roofing.  Open  interior          no
partitions. Floor slab provided.
1/ All lots serviced with major road of 14.0) width, minor roads of 10.0
width and footpath/alleyways of 3.0X width, deepwell water source, vith
individual water connections and communal septic tanks for every 2-3
units.



PIILIPPINES
StCTORRL IN[STIIEli tUI 1987-1992
8ASED N LOU STTE f MEr f UNITS CMLfM/SW
I                       60UERHttNl PLRK ~(LOU  EStiMAit)i
PLAN        I
IHSTITUTI0N             I          1 98?                       1 98 8         1         98 9         I      t  19                     1 991                   1 992             TOTRl         :
OUNT   T PRC TOTL             UIT   TOTAL            UNII   TOTAL  I         UNIt     T OTL         UNIT   TOTAL  I         UNIT  TOTAL      NO.    TOTA L
INO.PRIE1/AUIULAR                N.COST        FM       it.PRICEPI"              O..  Pltlc    F    INO. PRICE   Pl    :NO.  PRICE   RI              I TS   COST PAI
1. DIRECT  0 T PrC1   ON (0 StOCK) 1,951                         1 4,425                I 5,9W                 t 7,750                 :,832                   1 9,65                     38,323
N NM PM  (NET ffUW  CI/S):  1,151                           I 2,075                1 3,0O                  I 6,50                  : 75O                  I 8,800                    29,026         1
TOTAL CtIETIONS         i 3,651                       1 5,575                 " 8,500                : 12,500                1 15,200               t16,600                :  62,026          :
UPWtlRIN6   -- EIID   :      0 33,150 33,450   0.0 1       0 35,123    0.0 I   S0  36,879   18.4 1 1,SOO  39,723   58. I  4,58 40,659  183.0   5,500  42,692  234.8    12,000   494.3:
-- EXISTS  I 1,O   33,45  33,450  33.5 1 2,050  3S,123   70.2 1 3,500 36,879  129.1   2,500  39,723   96.8   1,000 40,659   40.7?1          0  42,692    0.0 I  10.,       370.2:
RESETTLEtENT (S/S)(SIN)   I,SOD  20,725 20,73   31.1 1 I,SOO  21,761    32.6 : 1,500 22,849   34.31 2,000 23,92    48.0   2,000 25,191   50.4 I 2,000 26,451   52.9 -  10,50    249.3:
SiS aDD STOCK --    I :      0 37,200 37,200   0.0 I       033,100    0.0 1   100 35,700    3.6  1 1,D00  37,500   37.S   4,500 42,000  189.0   7,800  45,600  35S.7:   13,400   585.8:
-- EXISTS 1  1000 37,200 37,200  37.2 1 2,00D  33,100   66.2 1 2,900 35,700  103.5 1 5,500 37,500   206.3 , 3,000 42,00   126.0   1,000 45,600   45.6 1  15,400   584.8:
COIIPLETER UIMTS T I 1   15  85,550 85,550  12.9 1    75 89,828    6.7 1         0 94,319    0.0 I       0  99,035    0.0       0103,987    0.0:        0109,186    0.0        226    19.7:
CliJOCAl/JuNTRAl IE1         0 120,000 120,000   0.0 :     0126,000    0.0 i      0 132,300    0.0 I      0139,915     0.0      200 t45,861    29.2:   300 153,154   45.9       500    75.1 1
80C CtLTEt   UNITS                500 1S0,000          58.0: 1,500105,000   157.5 , 2,000 110,250  220.5 1   700 115,763   81.0:   702 12,551    95.1:          0 127,628    0.01   S,482   60t.1 I
PSW CORE UNIIS                I     0 40,000            0.0 1   500 42,000   21.0 I   SOO 44,100   22.1:         0 46,305      0.0       0 48.620    0.0 I      0 Sl,SI    0.0:   1,000    43.1 1
WE CIOtPLETEO UNIS            1   300 150,000          45.0 1   350 157,500   55. 1   400 165,375   66.21   550 173,644   95.51   550 182,326  100.3 i   665 191,t42   127.31   2,815   409.4 
ACOUIRE RSSEIS        :   300                       1   350                 1400                   1550                       550                 1   665
LIT PRO6U                            I      0                   1     0                 1     0                1                 0                1      0 
I                             I                      I                       I     O                                        a ,
II. mumT  friO  (1O6r          ) 1 725                          I 9.9                     10,950                 IS,450                : 12,043               120,tlO                    69,02           1
WlrC PRIVATE IRIEWTS (a  PRO)    26 90,000              2.3 1   725 94,500   68.5 1 1,750 99,225  173.6 I 6,250 104.186   651.2 :12,043109.396  1317.5 1 20,410114,865 23*.41  41,202  4,557.3:
IOTAL TAKEOIS         :    25                       1 8,000                 1 12,000                  17,000               125,000                 1 34,000               1   96,025         1
LESS: (PULIC PRCIN)  1       0                      1 7,276                 110,251                   10,750                 12,957                 13,590                1  54,823 
lSIS COMPLE[E UNITS           I   200 80,000           16.0 1 1,900 84,000   159.6 1 1,900 88,200  167.6   1,900 92,610   176.0 1        0 97,241    0.0 1      0 102,103    0.0 I   5,900   519.1 1
SSS CIUIETE UIlTS             I   SO5  80,000          40.0    ,800 84,080  487.2   S,000  88,200  511.61 5,000 92,610   537.1           0 97,241    0.01       0102,103    0.01  17,900 1,575.91
OF MIS                        11    D                         I0 11,500o              I,SOO1                                      :     0                I     0                :4,500
OIIP COIUTE NTS OETE6SES)1          0                       :     0                1     0                 1     0                       0                      0                        0
*~~~~                                                            ~          ~~                      ~~~~~ :  :  U            I                      ,                       :                 I
TOTE. PUIICLY-ASSTO 2/  12,676.0 10,114        267.9  1I4,350  78,3001,124.7: 16,850 86,0751,450.3 1 23,200 85.665 1,987,.4  20,87S 101,658 2,131.0 1 29,075106.97  3,206 .1017,02.0 10,1610:
_~~~~~~~ I                                                             1           :                                  1                       :                                         I
I/ UI PIICES INCREASEO _LY N SS REESOTnh ESTMD  uR                IN  I[MUES.
2/  NTILY PRTELY WILI U          URITELY rIUn  UITS EXCLU. REIILY       SUCH MIS  NA  KEN POC  IN THE   N  SECTOR.  IR IE1                       SECTOR     TLDOEUE L T[fa   .
LClSTSUt. am. 11/04/87



NIBTISNS TO VW8803351  SOCK 1976-199
Lo £STIMIUE
I C IU A L                                                 600'?   PLAN  (LOU   ESTIIIATE)                         I
IIBTIIIJTJII       :~ loll    I                                     I  : O IeR K. aui :-io VW  cim.s-::s                                                   TOTAL 130. 3Do1
196e:19812   1983   194   1985   1986  11982-06 I19v2411 103 TOTAL       13.9611!  1987   '988   9989   1950   I99    152   198-92 1198-92 
I. STRU  600'  P8011   (1101(E)       114,856  3,374  3,27   2,38   2,600  2,46  I114,107 1  2,821 it 29,163 1  2,560 11  1,951   4,425  5,900  7,7S0  8,032  9,465   38,3M31  6,37 
MOI El P311 (NET1 Or MAIM/K) I 4,759 1   949  1,972   1,379   1,371   1,000 I6,671 I19,334 11  11,430 1   1,039 11 1,l51   2,075   3,000  6i,500   7,500  8,80  129,02611 4,838 11/
Toil. WWL[1(                I 64,9159 I118,730 22,713  16,334 20,013  5,27   82,997  16593147,956I 13,45I.1 31 3651   5,515  8,500  12.500  15,200 16,68001 62,026 3 18,338I
9159801                   I20,6191  8,354  5,694  3,213  4,41         7121 22,387    4,47711- 43,006 1  3,910 I1  1,000   2,1000   4,000  4,0100  5,508   5,500 I 22,000:  3,667 II
E5(TILDIO  (5,5)          1 39,581    9.427 15,047  11,74   14,22    3.495  153,938 10,7880II 93,520 I  8,502 -11  1.500   f.r00   1.50    2,000   2,080   2,000 110,5001  1,750 1
S,s rpeainwT&             I      01       0    500   1,0111  1,0050  1,000 13,5001    701011   3.5001'    3181lo 1,000   .OSS   3,5 6500,00               8,8o ?o 0.0 1128.000    4,501
CHIU'WEOTS/OT3.S          I 4,759:    949  1,4fl    379    37           01  3,171 1    6341: II7,930 1    7211I   Al9    75            a      0       0      03    2261       3 1-2/
COWAIAIUIETRI3.          IINII        NC111.    19(1   991    IUCL   199(1   199(   I NCLIIK 11 I.3    199(1. I    990.I  0  0       0      0    200    3001    5001        8333/
BBC CUIIIO  MITS                1 9,297 1  2,425   1,306    65       97       01.4,4161 I 897~  13,703:   1,253 11   500   1,500   2,130    700    78              01 5,4821    9141 4/
PO   CORE UITS                  I      01      0       0     103    926    259 11,200 1    25  111,2080I    11131.           0    5so      500      0       0      0II19,13101     167 15/
11'c HITCDUNITS                 1   I      0I      0         247    206 I. 1,91  1,6621   332I11   1,6621I    15111t   300    30          40      550    50      6651I 2,8151t   469 i6/                      0
RCSIKDKSES                I   Ol   0    0   is   92 19812971591    297:I  27 11 300350400550550O66  1 2,815 14691
L11 POW6                   I     01       0      0    232    II149,019 1,136S1    27311  91,365 1    124 11            0       0       0      0       0      01       DI       01
II. UUOhhiCT rITIC         (IIENI)   1 63,878 311,159  24,346  26,799 11,180   1,532 I 74,935  114,9871130813 1  12,619 .13   725   9,925 10,90  I5,450  12,043 20,4101I 69,5OZ2311,5841
lOWE (PUT KSUO)                 I   427 12,M   13,8%  16,22   5,705          32 1 38,6371  7,72  1  3901641   3,5.51 :1    25    725  1,751)  6,250 12,043 20,410 141,20  I 6,867 37/
1013. 191005S              2,427 1' 5,202   15,02 7,35  6,934   1,500 1 46,073 1  9,215:1  48,500 I  4,409 11-    Zs  8,000 12,138 17,000 25,50  34,000 19.025:I.16,004 19/
L[S  (PIULC P35N9)    12,5:0  2,i2s  1,306   1,50  1,229   1,468 1I7,436I1I1,487 I   9,436 I              858 I1     0   7,27  10,251  10,750 1Z,957  13,59  1 54,8231I 9,137 :1/
GsIUU.IE N11                    1 16,6421I 3.212   3,579   1,908  1,2M      S00  30,49  1 2,0981 2- 7,133 11  2,467 111   200   1,50   1,900  1,900         0      01I 5,900       S83 110/
555(3  .11  MIS                1t32.5 1 5,169  6,871   8,664  4,103   1,011  25,W    I S15,61 1I 50,616 1  5,32  :1   500   5,5   5,800  5,900              0      01 17,900 12.983 lie/
OF Nis                          1      01      8       0       0      0       et       01      01 t        1D      01        0 1,5U1,5001,500               0      01I.4,5oo8I7501
WIrAUsm                        I114,510 I      0       0      0       0       01      01       011  14.510   I'M31           0       0      0       0       0      01       0       01
III. I0oTEESt                        1     01       0       0      0       0       01      01I      01        03 D      01 i     00    5so   1,56  1,500   2,130  3,541I 8,740 I,4571
M                                                                I
TeILl PUBLICLY-RSSISTO    I 77,93411I4,532  27,624  29.106 13JOO  4,000 1 99,0423I17,131 11 166,976I 15,1800I  2,87   94,8050 17,850  24,700 22.87  3.4115 1116,565 I19,420 ',Il
I       I                                      I        I        :I     ,    II                                                      I        I       I
I/  U  MKITIS 0 ff    1(1 TR IF ffMM  601. 2515(MA3919(1132-86P0310 R  IDN TO1 LII KEMOM                            9/99r39176-11, MMC  PEDLY 1909M  CSRl5   INTES.M
2/   M  FU SNU3SM         ffCftIT[DUNITS W3.M                                                                          r3M11982-86 ION ff BB, PO I WC; uLn6. r1u11I8-199
3/ 061115  Wms ci 1135(19          By 29129  909 P55.                                                                  Ws a    PRO ma im (109 ff    tW ML NS-.  1If11U) MM
4/ MC 1805( LWr   95 IS:1(150015  LUK  PERIOD.                                                                         K  YEAR 53.15S L06 IDLYITO 011 9181(50f POUt C(8'ITIM3.SW.
S/ PS515P  LRW  OET 0615.                                                                                          10/ W15 55S TO 1(1331 ro  fcl TENWI  AISlES N00iCT
6/ fEC'S I 091011 PLO8 IRK3 LffT IS IS; 3(13F0I                                                                        13 rJSfl. P935(00T0005ER        (E I L  51691 CMfII9IIT  85 Or
7/ PRI131113005(1131I1911.TO0MM001K31382-.                                                                             a/8  91(1 P2,1 i0s 555, P700 I'L 6515  Um  MM1  fER W1. 1073. ID
8t  MIt I013L11(031510591 DOUBE W  S r391 82-56; IICLIK  IIIIC P3UUCIUL                                                P3.35 1 120,1coo3m   COST 80(1161
Il1 1013111( 01.    11TCT V731(626,58 LESS   M       116,560 US423.294).



mNNW SCTU mmsc
EITIN   TO EU  WmSI  SToC  191992
low EST=3UT
ACTUAL                                            ti    601ERNIICNT    PLAN  (TIRGET   EST)                        I
116111111             I TOTaL I                                       I TOMIN.  83.6 It  TER  Vt  TSS  11                                                       TOrI. 1111 0061
11976-811  1992   1903   1909   1956   1996  1 1982-861992-961 :10. OILANK  IN11 1987   1ISO   1989   1990   I"9    1992  1,  97-9211987-92,1
-        I~~~~~~~~~~
101 I POM  NUT ff  MK6S  I 4,79 I   99  3,97    1,379   1,371   1,011 1  6,671 1  1,334 11 11,430 I  1,039 11 4,151   7,201  11,251  13,301  16,351 20.501- 272 G,75  112.1261
TOTIL PIOOSTIE:        1 61,959 11t,738 22,733  16,334  20,013  5,207 I162,9971  16,599 1:.147,956 1. 13,151 :: 23,252  17,862 22,497  26,632  31,77   36,972 11150,9871 26,49911/
owl           ~~1 20,619, 8,394  5,694   3,213  4,411   172 122,3W7    1,177 11 43,006 1   3,910 1112,500   7,500  0,030 30,011  12,100  133,0  I 63,031 -10.5181
RESEIILEEI  (S/S)    1 39,581 1 9,42   15,04   11,742  14,226  3.495 13,9391, 10,83?B111  93,520 1  0502 I I 6,501   3,111   3,111  3,0331  3,00    3,01 1121,506 1  3,5894
S/S1O"I ESTOCK    11       0 1      0    511  1,110  1,03   1,0301  3,50  1        71111   3,50 1    3131:1  1,03   7,00011,0333,303816,0.  20,000  71,03111,833s
CEULEIOUNIIS/ENTI .11759 1   999  1,472    379    37              0 13,171 1       634 111  7,930 1    721 11    151    213    253    301    351    501   1,756 1    2931
CuiW ueIIJESTEII    hEL AmIDCL   JIlM           IM      IC NL 113. Ii  C I hLlI INELII   ICLl I INL  I I   100    160    245    330    20    470I 1,725 1    2381
if e"E CI ULE INT           1 9,297 12.925   1,396    650        97       0 14,1561       997 it13,78331   1,2531:1   100    61   1,100          0       0       012,0oo11      3331is/
PS? E0Ehmars                I      0 1      0      0    103    926    259:  1,200          2511    1,211: 129- 1711 ,     0    500    SOD        0       8       0 I 1.031   1671121
WEC  TOIRLCOIP.E OHIIS   I         0 1      0      0    24       296  1,209:  1,662 1    33211t  1,662 1    1511I.   786    546    439    392    253    399   2,0151I   469:3/
IIU BIEDSCs          I      013     0       0      15     92  191   2971            5911t    2971       2711o' 796   54643              392    253    3991          i        I
Lit ROMI             I     0 1      0       I232111  1019j11,3651                  27311136m           12 111      0       0      0       0      0       01         I         
I                                          I        I        1        01          11                                             Al      1t
1U. hRhUTI INSE  01101RTES)II 63.8781  111,150 24,346 26,799  11,100   1,532 1 71,935 1 11,9871It 138,813 1 12,619 115S2,891  47,353 57,315  41,471 44,113 47.442 11290,5os 14,433 1
MMV  (12111  8311S (NU)  11  427 1 Z,M   13,896  16,227  5,705           321- 30,637 I  7,72  It 39.0611   3,551 11 34,791  34,353 48,215, 36,471  39,113 42,4.2 11235,385 139,233 14/
ToOIL TomUs          1 2,427 11 5,20   15,20   17,235   6.934  1,511 146,073 1  9,215111 43,511 1   4,409 II134.791  39.390 57,262 49,761  52,816 59,046 1293,056 1148.0931I
LESS: (PUBLIC RiNIOCI     2,000 I 2,425  1,306  1,003  1,229  1,468 1 7,436 1  1,407 ii  9,136 1    OS  11         0   5,037  9,097  13,290  13.693 16,609 .1 57,671 1 9,612 1
ESIS COWE UNEITS            -116,642 1 3,212  3,S79   3,966   1,29      511I110,491 1  2,098 11  27,133 11  2,46711t 2,100  1,31    4,311        0       0       01 30,500 1 1,75  -.S/
555  EUULEE MIS1             132 ,809 1  5,169  6,973   9,661   4,103   1,.0001I2S,0011  5,161 11' 58,6161I  5,329 11 13,711   7,030  3,080  3,011   3.030  3,0   132,711 I 5,40  1.St
OF  3018                    I      0 1      8      0       0       0      0 1      0 1       0 11      01I       0 -11  2,301   1,.701  2,030  2,011   2.030  2,00012.0001  2,11015/
WV   CWILTEMIIIS IU6S) 114.0001             0      0       0       0      01       0 1       0  113,0381   1,2731:        o       0       0       0      0       0 1      01     0I
I       I                                       I       1                   Is        it                                              1Is 
IL.SIORUUEWS. LWS)   I                  01      0       0       0      0       0 1      0 1      011!       0 1      011 .1,700   3,511  3,03010',51113,03011,138I154,13819,03I5/
TOFL PIUELY-855       177,934 1 11,532  27,624  29,166 1.3,711   4,030 1 09,0921  17,803 11.166,9761 15,100 11 59,623  59,980 78,605 65,664  73,737  O5.7OO11 1423,9  I 70,549 JI5/
1  1                      1        1        II         1        11                                              1        1        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I/li 3/67 FMO  OR 353,87 SiTis, mm0C  09  FIJI VW141,10o.                                     4/EWE'cS 3/9  kmO
2/ PO1 BSIIIIIE. 4.255 RAM1  1,290 BMLT; UESU  2,968. lIU1lD1J6 NMSl  6/00(1             1,010)   S/19C M /M  FL u   TROTLS SIll. HN605/L6uS UJ3STE  roU OIIENEa     IN NMl 93 WEC KMU
3: Hrf r101 IlC'S 3/8  Kal  CLUELy AESOSI WECS 7/36 P1.5.                                        PRIEME SECIE S8II 1110 P"ILEY BUILT/Wtc NORISE  031511C   (NEr,) DII EltILY
Pploff. MIWC loll. of 507A1ue, WUisTO By 10OCT1  63,011 18Sf 0321,516  WISFTLUDI 



cmn  swcrc  Pa:r
USCTUAL ACTO  PLAN
TIMING   OF  ACTION
ACT ION   AND O BJ E CT I VE                                    INSTITWUION                       Wr STACE OF
arSPiDiS ItLEDAS                                    By
COMPLETED       PtOCESSING       DATE
PART 1: ACTIONS BY HUDCC
SIGNATURE OF  XVTT  ORDERY9
ouruining oroac seccoras  gosis of vo1ume production, low       President's  Signed Dec. 17, 1986
cost focus. establishingEhe new streamlined institutionsl         Office
structure and madates Yor the sector and idntifying four
agencies to be divested/privatised (W.B,5N1C,SDC)
#2  PRE ARATIOa OF  gecaR L                  asLCYisanc,pbl-           HUDCC     Completed May. 1988
covetnstarget beneticlaries ror puDLiLc asesl  nee  pubilc
vs. private sector roles, broad financial policies
#3  REP     yNOF 8E 5L "  I    MT PIt
stabLinin t-ret i mettevels and unit production                    HUDCC     Completed ov  1986
goals as guIdelines for individual agencies                                  MD  Devel'pot Plan
(Rev*s d annually)
04  SECTORAL RATIONAIZATIO(
a. Appointment oz a Housing Council and Chairman to provide    President's  Completed
sectoral coordination and leadership                            Office    January. 1988
b. Changes in HICC:
1. Development of a Policy Statemnt                            HICC     Completed August, 1987
2. Termination of selected HICC Functions:
- Materials Stockpiling Program                          BoCC     Asset sales bgegn in             Complete by
December. 1987. 80%              December. 1989
completed.
- Sale of Maunlad S6L     a) coP Approval                HICC    Approved Rav, 1987
jb) biddint and Award                    Completed April/Way. 198B
c  Complete sale                                                         August. 1988
- Terminate Guarantees to Other Govt Corporations        HICC      Coopleted January. 1988
c. Liquidationdivestiture of a*nwies producing high cost
housingAbuilding materials Ehus eliminating competititon
between public aencies anA with the privat  sector
BW4: - Preparation of SDC Liquidation Plan & Timetable        NUDCC    Completed August, 1987
for completion of divestiture
- Appointment of a Conservator, and legal ass*gnat SIDCORC1HlCC  Signed March, 1988
of DC to the appropriat, body for sale
- Termination of Corporation                                                                       December, 1988
- Complete Liquidation                                                                             oeceuber, 1991 ' I
WCO: - Approval of Disposition Action Plan by COP             SIDCOR    Approved Dec  1987
- Begn asset auctions                                             Comipleted Fee, 1988
Complet liquidation                                                                              December, 1991
551: - Term tnatio  of Corporation (file wlth SIC)                      Completed Sept, 1987            December. 1991
c: -          etComplete lquidation
NR:Assi netto DSP/Asset Privati:atiot Trust for sade                Completed October. 1986



TIMING   OF  ACTION
ACT IO N   AND  O BJ EC T IVE eitiuTIoN                                                               BY STACR OF
RSPOnStBLE                             LOAN
CONPIZTED         PROCEssl ;       BY DATE
d. Clarification regardin  the authority of the HUDOC             Dept of     Completed February  1988
Chairman to chair the Boards of the Idividual agencls         Justle bs     y Dept Justice Opinion
e. Revised Board compositions:    (  a  rovalzfHUDCC                 UDCC      Completed FebruarY  1988
ja    rio   sorS   r                    prtlnlzdFb  1988
fb  approval by Leg!slature                 O     tnig.9ure                      December, 1991
f. Completion of studies:
- Right of Redo*tion study to identify vays to reduce   HUDCC                                            TOR agreed by
the current redemption period and expedite resale of                                                     Dec  1989
foreclosed real property collateral                                                                     colete by
D:cc, 1990
PART II: ACTIONS BY NATIONAL HOKE MORTGAGE FINANCE CORP
#1: Preparation of a POLICY STAT1E  tT SUMMARY outlining key             NoFC      Business Plan in March,
financial and operational  llcles tOeLIIinate negatlve                         1987. Policy Statement
spread and ensure NHMFC's tinancial viability                                  completed Way, 1988
#2: FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING to write off past losses and verify         NHKFC      Balance sheet revisions
ases8; ana recap ztaliation                                                    completed Dec   1986
DBK       Initial P7790 1US$ 38m)
released March, 1987 and
Remaining P221  (US$10.8m)
released July, 1987
#3: Preparation of an INSTITUTIONAL ACTION PLAN to couplete
internal reorganization, computerizacion  sys eems dvelop-          NKFt      Completed May, 1988                  Various dates
ment, staff training and strengthening of internal controls                                                         for s iecific
and performance indicators                                                                                             actions
#4: Establishment of                              TR NAHE mTAKO LNKASE ITLN NHA   GC & NMA
Signature of the  Itirtdmtratlon"1sale or Y mortgages                     Completed Februa         1988
Signature of a Comitment Line Agreement with NHA                          Sigoed February,  1988
- Begin regular takeouts with NMA under UHLP                                for r250 million                       May, 1988
#5: EXPANSION OF FNIN
- Signature or  s/GSIS Loian Agreements to establish local  NHDFC/SSS/GSIS  Signed January, 1988
long-ters funding sources for NHMFC
- Signature of HDMF Agreement                                   N11MFC/HENF                                        June, 1988
#6: Developement of an ARK POLICY and timetable to enable H1MP          N!HMFC                                            December 31, ot
to manage variable iSfIer irro-vings                                                                                     1989 0  
#7: Study of FUTURE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTALITY                           NHmFC                                             July, 1991   " X
#8: Study to strengthening ACCOUNTINC AND INTERNAL AUDIT                NH1FC     TOR agreed May, 1988                    June. 1989    us



TIMING   OF   ACTION
ACT ION   AND  OBJ EC T IV E                                     INSTITOTION
RESPOUSIBZ                                  by STAGE OF
COKPLETED              LOAN PROCESSINC       BY DATE
PART III: ACTIONS BY NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
#1: POLICY STATEEN  to establish mandate as sole low cost                NHA      Completed Nay, 1988
Producer. termination of high cost housing, rental
operations, estate management small buslness lending.
and mortgage administration functions; as well as
future policies on profit, and land acquisition
#2: Revise PHYSICAL DHVEIMPENT STANDARDS to reflect new pricing         NRA       Completed Aug, 1987
policy ana increased costs, yet retain affordability
#3: Development of INSTITUTIONAL ACTION PLAN to computerize              NNA      Completed May. 1988                            Various dates
operations and accouncing, complete systems development,                                                                     for specific
and strengthen financial management and internal controls                                                                       actions
#4: FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING to write off uncollectible loans.                     Partial cleanup
estaoiisn a ioan loss reserve, transfer completed infra-                      achieved in 1956
structure to SWSS and others, and convey mortgage assets to
another entitv
- Government agreement to trsnsfer of NWSS/other assets
and the associated liabilities off NMA BS (GCECC)                GOVT                                Board Presentation
- Govt (COA) approval of other Phase II adjusments                 COA                                   Effectiveness      August, 1986
Completion ot COA review of 1987 Financial Statements                                                                    November  1988
Phased asset sales (Phase III) under Liquidation Plan                                                                      1988-1992
#5: Adoption of a PORFO10 IJgiDATION PALA  to  sell                     NmA                                    Effectiveness     Imylementation
existing inVentory anId tnaLe   ortrgag  douM entatlon                                                                          988-1992
#6: BUDCETAR ASSlUNCES for NRA's future subsidies for resettle-          DBI      Telex assurance of P180m                       Annual budget
menc ano  a poron of upgrading, and future capital increases                  in 1956 P360. In 1989                           allocations
r.ecive in October, 1987
#7: Study to Strengthen INTERNAL ACCOUNTING/AUDIT                         a       TORa "d         1988                             June  19S9
PART IV: ACTIONS BY GOVERMENT
#I: PRIVRTIZITU   of HICC (construction loan amd                         APr      Areed under Public CorD completion by
Mns"uWance 'tunctloMns  to redue contiln8ent liabilities of govt              micter lam in may. 1988                        Decenber, 1990
#2: Governent statemnt regarding SE0          V C   to ensuVe          DOFI'KDA  Received in tct, 1987
prudent financial and rsu managemn  tru c uorp Sector)                        Public Corp Sector Loian
#3: CONSTRUTION INDUSTRY STUDY of problems faced by                      CIT"     Study  mfderway                                December, 1988
s=0a9l(aleso spzea contractors
SAP.WKI. 5/30/88



75 -                            AhNNX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Amount Disbursed          Profiles %
WB        Period   Project --------------------- ----------------------
Piscal      Ending    Year    Period   Cumulative               Phil    Phil
Year                   1/                            Project General  IDF
FY88    Jun 30, 1988 ---          0           0         0       ---    ---
FY89    Dec 31. 1988  1         19.2       19.2        12        0      1
Jun 30, 1989           19.3        38.5        24       3       6
FY90    Dec 31, 1989  2         20.0       58.5        36        8      15
Jun 30, 1990           22.4        80.9        50       13      25
FY91    Dec 31, 1990  3          3.0       83.9        52        20     36
Jun 30, 1991            4.5        88.4        55       27      47
FY92    Dec 31, 1991  4          8.0       96.4        60        35     57
Jun 30, 1992           14.3       110.7        69       44      67
FY93    Dec 31, 1992  5         14.0      124.7        78        52     76
Jun 30, 1993           16.8       141.5        88       61      83
FY94    Dec 31, 1993  6          8.0      149.5        93        69     89
* Jun 30, 1994            5.5       155.0        97       77      94
FY95 ** Dec 31, 1994  7          5.0      160.0       100        83     97
Jun 30, 1995            ---        ---        ---       88    100
FY96    Dec 31, 1995  8          ---       ---        ---        93    ---
Jun 30, 1996            ---        ...        ---       96    ---
FY97    Dec 31, 1996  9          ---        ---       ---        99
Jun 30, 1997            ---        ---        ---      100
Completion date:      June 30, 1993                   it
* Loan closing date:   June 30, 1994
** Final disbursement: December 31, 1994
1/  Year of loan effectivness - Year 1.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
DISBURSEMENTS
n aer + OWNA NM                 W P



PNILIPPINES
NOUSING SECTOR PRCJECT
CONSTMUCTION MATERIALS IMPORTS 1979 -- 1989
....  ___...........    ......_.......
(USS '000 FOB)
* t{_t* ---- P*JECTO ----
SITC GATEGORT                   1979       1960     1961      1982     1983     1984      1985      1986      1967     1988      1989
240 Cork and Wood                 987    1,300       639      462       545      165       379      456       S02      552       607
533 Pigments, Paints etc.      19,508   17,580   20,784   27,545   21,S17   18,236   17,461   27,679   30,447   33,492   36,841
580 Resins and Plastics       125,866  122,869  140,014  144,601  172,638  105,422   94,220  142,187  156,406  172,046  189,251
661 Lime, Cement etc.           2,561    4,770    2.102    1,663    1,665        361       358      891       980    1,078    1,186
672 Ingots                    156,781  127,276   91,364  153,548  155,688   73,576   43,968   7T,126   84,839   93,322  102,655                    .4
673 tron, Steel and Bars       31,749   32,194   27,216   45,141   28,187   10,838   12,390   13,857   15,243   16,767   18,444
674 Universats, Plates, Sheets 170,937  162,633  138,138  149,222  113,394   83,562   58,194   90,601   99,661  109,627  120,590
678 Tubes, Pipes, Fittings     43,770   42,419   51,328   56,112   41,362    7,893   12,032    9,998   10,998   12,098   13,307
722 Tractors etc.              27,499   16,168   18,063    8,057    5,954    1,217         398      694       763      840       924
??? Etectrical Fittings                                                                                         0        0         0
723 Civil Eng. Plant & Equip.   79,492   99,782   75,459   83,207   66,924   14,781   13,300    9,664   10,630   11,693   12,863
782 Notor Vehicles - Transport  65,197   55,768   68,650   51,077   51,320   17,052    5,703    5,655    6,221    6,843    7,527
810 Sanitary/Pltubing Fittings   4,622    3,692    5,638    4,074    3,335    1,788    1,797    2,815    3,097    3,406    3,747
Total Bldg & Constr'n (A)  728,969  686,451  639,395  724 709  662,529  334,891  260 200  381,623  419j785  461,764  507,940
Aruwet Growth         1                -s.8x    -6.91    i3.3X    -6.6"   -49.51    42.3X        6.71    10.01   110.01    10.01
333 Petrolteu, Oils etc.    1,114,541 1,856,960 2,081.402 1,784,102 1,749,846 1,471,888 1,276,924  727 966  742,546  757 397  772,545
6 1 of Category 333  (1)   66,872  111,478  124,884  107,046  104,991   88,313   76,615   43, 679   48,047   52,852   58,137
TOTAL UJALIFIED     (A0) 795,641  797,869  764,279  831,755  767,520   423,204  336,815  425,302  467,832  514,616  566,077
PHILIPPINE TOTALS
_ __ _ ..........
TOTAL ALL IMPORTS    (C) 6,141,731 7726,912 7,945,679 7,666,918 7,486,626 6,069,612 5,110,673 5,043,597  N.A.     N.A.      N.A.
TOTAL ALL EXPORTS    (0) 4,572,170 5,750,882 5,712,114 5,012,030 4,971,412 4,588,757 5,265,886 4,841,780  N.A.    N.A.      N.A.
IMPORTS - EXPORTS  (C-D) 1,569,561 1,976,030 2,233,565 2,654,888 2,515.214 1,480,855  (155,213) 201,817  N.A.     N.A.      N.A.
Sources: Foregon Trade Statisttes of the Philfppfnes, NEDA, for 1979-1986. Ba*  stifetes for 1987-1989.



- 79 -                                                   ANNEx7
Page 1
M14UPPIHtS
1nUSIt6 SECtOI PRIJECT
TECIIICRl ASSIStCE, TIRIINI, EWJINIENT U   STUDIES
TE -S  -        ------- COSTS (US)
sILE                                                                                     0f            coST     s1ffrii
R6EICY        ToS                       OIECCIUES                          1IIHO6    WERERCHEE  191 M    111    TOTRl    OTHER   TOTAL
CIRP       Construction Industry  ReviAw of difficulties facing private    July, 19"   Draft TOR  12  1,500 lOC   18,000   7,000   ,OOO
Study                 cmstruction c ni"es, and deuelopnent   through            on
of recomwndatiou to oercone the           Oec, 1988      File
priwary bottlenecks obstructing  nonic  (6 nonths)
recowery for sdl and ?nedi  scale
cwmnies,
.NOCC  I1: SemInars on Reuised    Dismintion of sectoral reforas,          June, 1988  Detailed
Sectord Structure    including overall policies, ne              threugh    schedl                            10,000    10,000
and  htes             institutionel mandates, and indi-         Duc, 1989   to be
vidual agency policies. Seminars         (18 nonths) prepared
wod be targetted at three levels:                        by
(a) disseination of individual                          "arch
ncy policies to agency staff, (b)                       1988
dissmination of sectoral policy to
staff of all agencies, and (c) build-
ing understanding of interlinkaps
between agencies.
12: Oevelopmnt of a       Oevelopment of a lngent Intora           Dec, 1988    TOR to be 36   850 lOC   30,600  10,000    10,600
Sectoral hIS          -tion System for the housing sector,       through    prepaed  12 12,000 FOR  141000             141,000
under  UCC Technical Secretariat.        Dec, 1991       by
(equipment allocation: *5,000)           (3 years)    Sep, 1988                        SubTot   181,600
13, Study of Lepl         Review of the Right of Redemption and     Jan, 1990  TOR to be  612,000 FOR  72,000               72,000
Obstructions to       Iaceda Laws wbich introduce significant    through    prepared  12   850 LOC   10,200             10,200
Collateral            delays and disincentives to foreclosure   Dec, 1990      by                                    ------
foreclosure           on real estate in the Philippines.       (12 mnths) July, '89                          SubTot    82,200
14: Ide lands Tax         Study of the feasibility and nechanics    Jan, 1990  SIR to be 12 1,500 UOC  18,000 10,000    28,000
Study                 of a tax on ua2nt urban land to bring      through    prepared
idle lands into productive use.           Dec, 1990      by
(12 months) July, '89
15: II0II Land Titling    Review of bottlenecks in land titling     Jan, 1990  TOR to be  5 12,000 FOR   60,000  50,000   110,000
and development of an operational plan       to       prepared  24  1,500 LOC  36,000             36,000
to resolve major obstructions, TR        July, 1991      by     10   850 SUP   8,500               8,500
and equipment. (equipment: *25,000)      (I8 "onths) July, '89
SubTot   154,500



- 80-                                                 ANNX  7
Page 2
IEllS ---- COStS (U) --
IESOLE                                                                                    f            COSt    STAfTINS
AmICY         TIra                      OBJECTIUES                        I1N6    RfEERECE  M  PR M           TOTA       OTL  H   TOIlR
lIoC       Privatizaion Study    Reiw of thetumthdology for                latch, 1988  hrft tN  2412,000 r   21S,W0  10,000  298,0
privatiing construction Snd                through     on rile
NOtp  inurance.                          Ihroh, 1919
(12 wnths)
. ...... .........  . _._._..... . _ .   _....  . _ ...... _.* .... _.__ .......... _._ ..........__ ................ 
HO     I1: Strengthening of       Technical assistance to strengthen        July, 1988  T10  to be                       Lu         35,000
Collections           collections on folio I traftrd fron    through    prepare
NWIC to Of on July 1, 1987, including June, 1990         by
a revisu of cotputeriation, Ausent   (21 nonths)   Ibrec
of softwre, and staff training.                         198
12:  oluntary Ibeaship    sistnce to dwelop an effectie             Jan, 1989  tOf to be                         Luip so   30,0(
Caign                 capaign to attract voluntary sAings        through    prepwd
for the Provident fund.                   he, 1989       by
(12 nonths)   July
198
IWC   #: Technical assiste   Strent ing of WC's internd  audit   arch, 1988  10t to be 30 1,000 lC  30,W0  10,000    40,003
to strengthen intermul function, and prepWation of at leat      through     prepaed   12 12,000 fOR  14,o              14",oo
audit and accounting  the first 'startup' war's acc ts         June, 1909      by      30    50 SU   25,500       2S,50S
with the objective of obtaining an unr   (15 months) february
qualified external audit. (eqpat: $5,00)                1988                           Sublot   209,5I
12: Autoution of the HIS Oevelopent of a suitable HIS 1 nortpge
a Hlortga   Rccounting accounting s t., capalwe of expansion
Ssts                  on the scae envisioned for WIIfC.
(a)  anapte  visit by 3 staff to two   July, 19880                                           Is,00    1S,000
other     ae  finance institutio
which are already canpreheively
automated:
(b) Sinars on strategic planning and    December    TN to be 35 1I jO  LOC  35,000   S,000    40,000
preparation of a long-range (5-7 yr)    190       prepared
HIS plan to include dit. bae, the        to          by
proposed nix of hardeare, softwre,  June 1989    Rug '88
and tele ccationms                   (6 oneths)
(c) Iplmntation of the Plan.             July, 1989  Tlo to be
--Conversion of existing systmsfiles   to         prewed                            7S,000    75,000
--Systems software                   July, 1992      by                            100,000   100I,0
--Equipment                           (3 years)  flarch,'89                        480,000   480,0
--Hicrocamputers                                                                   100,000   100,000
--Preparation of cowputer cent"r                                                    50,000    50,3
--Development of software                                                          200,000  200,O
--Training                                                                          50,000    S0,000
--Contingency for upgrades, etc.                                                   20,000  200,000
Subtot 1,310,00O



ANNUE 7
Page 3
TElS   -------   COSTS (US)
RESPOISIUlE                                                                            Of           COST    STuArINi
ASElNC       TAISI                    OBJECIIUCS                        tlININ     REfEREKCE t11 PER 11    TOTIAL    OTIER  TOTAL
3: stuy of future        Review of vaious instrumentalities for  July, 1990     TOR    24 1,500 LOC  36,000  1,000   40,000
funding Hthhniens    WIIlC to re-enter the apital market,       to          to be    s12,000 fOR  60,500            60,000
and comensurate instrwments to  age    July, 1991   prepared                                -.-.-
variable rate borroingp.                (12 months)  by Det                         Sublot   100,000
1989
N: Staff Training         nwl training progra to be agreed to
include finanial nagment, capital       throughout    NA                            200,000  200,000
Narkets, staff exchae progri, etc.
NM      1: Tedmical asistance  Strengthening of NlM's internal audit   lurch, 1986  TOR to be 30 1,000 LOC  30,000  10,000   10,.O
to strengthen internal fnction, and preperation of the first    through   prepared  12 12,000 fOR 1",000           111,000
auoit and accouting  'startup' year's accounts vith the      June, 1999     by      30   850 SUP  25,500            25,500
objective of obtaining an unqualified    (15 nonths) februery
externl audit. (qput: $5,000)                         1988                          SubTot   209,500
Engineering Audit.                                      -                           200,000  200,aoo
82: Corporate planning    Institutionlizaion of NMl's             Jan, 1989  TOR to be  612,000 rOE  ?2,00         0   72,000
conputerized sinultion nokl for          through    prepared
physical and financial corporate        Jan, 1991      by
planning, including in-hWus staff       (2 Vears)  Septeber
training by a resident Wecialist.                     1988
TR for finncial planning                    -                 1212,000 fOR  1",000        0  11",000
83: Rutmation of HIS and Oeueloprent of an overall automtion
Accounting Systems    systen which will integrate the vwious
programs and equipeent being used in
different dpartnents of W.
(a) Preparation of the overall auto-    Dec, 1987   tOR on  FINAKO UNDER MRBAN III (LOAN 1821-PH)
nation plan/IS requirnets         to July, 1988   File
(b) Iptplntation of the plan.          (6 nonths)  TOR to be
--Conversion of existing systems/files          prepared                         30,000   30,000
--Acquisition of systems softwre                   by                           120,000   120,000
--Equipment                         Sept, 1988   March,                         550,000  $50,000
--Preparation of a Corputer Center   to           1908                           SO,OO    50,000
--Oevelopnent of application softure  Dec, 1991                                 200,000  200,000
--Training                         (3.25 -ears)                                  50,000   50,000
-Microcomputers                                                                 100,000  100,O00
.-Contingency for upgrades, etc.                                                200,000  200,000
Sublot 1,300,000



- 82 -                                                  ANNE  7
Page 4
TEllS                   COSTS (a)
RESPONSIBLE                                                                                Of            COST    STRfrINS
AREMCY        TASK                      OBJECTIUES                          TIMING     RfEERENCE  1  PER 11      TOTAL     OTNEP  TOtlA
34: Survey of  POs        Up4ted survey of Arm  for Priority       Sept, 196C               INTERNALLY fINRICEO BY NII
Oevelopent (Ah) (siwis and sutter   through
settleients) using 1986 aerial photos    Oec, 1990
of Ietro Ibntla.                          (2? months)
Rerial photography and equpipent for                                                     50,000    50,000
major regional cities' APO surveys.
15: Training              Rnnual Trainino Progran to be agreed by  July, 1908                                      200,000   200,000
W, to include staff exchage prograis,   through
seinars, inentory raent control,   Dec, 1992
etc.
IUl     ruture Project Prewation                                                                                                     100,000
STOTL ....................a a.,.t...          ., t..ttt          . . t   . a  . . a  . a   .   t. . .. .  . . . . . .t.t.,942,300
215 LOC 1
S6iMO TOTRL  (INCLUDING 21 CONTINGENCY) . .. ,.....                .............,, 36? NI       2 112 f  M .....  5,011,116
70 SUP 19
NOTES:  Local NI  US$1,50 0   P 30,600                                                          297 NI Of LOCIL M  fOlEI6N T
foreign NI I US$12,000 including travel                                               24.7 TOTAl STAff YEARS
Support  I  9IS 1       P 17,3t0                                                      6.8  FOREIGN STAFF YES   27.6U
17.9 LOCAL STAff YE1RS     72.41
Equipment total: $1,320,000



- 83 -                                                    ANNEX 7
Page 5
msiu11  WCttOE P301(1
LR ..l.egal    RA nts bted Cem t
Tvtri re ItCUCAI MSSISIICE, 1901116 U  StUK                           tOl ..lera  of Atfern
-.                     ftP.... mmally Arad Progra
.        .......                                               ........ . . ... .-.... .......
a             t             a             a              I             I          .3 I      
I     Iw19          1911            1 19         1990    1     1991        1   199t      Status  I
3 ..-.       -.-.-..-.-.-..             ---..--.  -.-- .--            -     .          ........ _ ..
I      IApr  I Od           I   Ysr I   I    Ywr 2       Yar3 3             Year 4                I
11            1             1              I             I             3             I            I
ClIP   Study of Constraints of Contractors  I                tOI T     1uuu            I           Lo I             I             I            I
.I            I             I             I              II                          I            I
WMJCC   l: Sners aon Rsed Sectoral          I              I        _     _     ws                    II I                        IUnder ww l
Structure andllandates           I              I             I             I              I             I             I           I
I             I             I              I             I             I              3           3
12: Oewloment of a Sector HIS        I              I       TOE   1_aam                                                    3            3
I             I             I             I                            I              I           I
13: StuW  of Lept Obstructions to   I               I             I             I                            I 3           I           I
Collateral Roreclosre            I             I              I       TOR   1 -        1                 I                          1
I             I             I             I              3             3             1            9
H4: Idle lands ta Study              I             I              I       tOI    1u . I           I          3 
I             I             I             3              3             3             I            3
35: IlORLUnd Titling                 I             I                       O
3             I             3             I              3             3             3            3
l16t  Pnrtiation Study                               TOR   I      --.a           LA    I              I             I             I Under  ay I
1W    I1: Strengthening of Collections m                   I                                          3             I             I            I
3             I                                             I                        3 I
12: Uolmntr   hbrship Camaign    I                 I        TOI  1-sa          t              3              1             1           1
3             3             I   .         3              3             3             3            3
M33C 11: To to Strengthen Internl Audit I                  3 o we-                     3              1             3             3
o.~~                                    ~      ~      ~     ~       ~~ 3 ,  ,  ,3                        I             8           I
2: Rutoation of NIS  RccIwnting   I                I                            3             3              3             I I
(a) anaeent Uhsts               I             I      w-      I             3             3              3 
(b) Autcmtion Plan/Sseinars    I              3I     to I                                               I             I I
(c)  plenentation               I             I              I TOR  .Z      SU sS             e*           _          3 
I             I             I             I              1             I             3            I
13: all Policy I Twetable            3              I                                          I.03 l        I I                       I
3                          I              3I            I             I             I            I
14: future runding fhchasn Study   8                I             I           TOR                         LoaaseaSsa    lR I  I        I
I             3             I             t              I             I             I            I
RHR    31: TR to Strengthen Internal Audit                 ttO  Usds                                  I             I             Inder  ay I
h-*~~                                  ~ ~            ~ ~           ~~ I  t  I            I             I              t           I
12: Corporate Planmng                1             I          tOI1   s8  saIau sa              a             3             1           1
I             I             3             I              I             3             I            I
13: Autoration of tHlIS  Rccount;ng   I            1              3             I              3             I             I           I
(a) Automation Plan             I                                                                                     IOI   :susa|  3  1  1  3   1 Under wat  I
(b) Ifpleentation               I             I t01 OR   smu sinau   s     -    s zaasats:su:ss:1                     1           1
8             I             8             I              8             1             I            I
34: Suruey of POs                    I              3            hsa$      uasuawshshs1                      1             I           3
*             I             I             3              I             I'            I           I
35: Training (Rnnul Program)                                     afI I
t             I             I             I             I              I .  .
................ 3. . . . . . . . .. ............... _   3  8          . 



-85 -                                    ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
INFLATION AND INTEREST RATES
o.Ia  GM                                                  POSSILE RBFBRENCE RATES
N1am I DAItR                 4MOVINO AVZRAOES   FOR ADJUSTABLI MORTGAGES
-*                      ON  Tag  CPI
M 11W 0   UIT m     -       __T   rSMS                          D iT
WmR       1mm   m   1969-?    OR                                  sWIS    PWM            M         N
Dllt g   (DI3    Gum19    SU9   5ThR  10T    20Th It         a       61-90DY8   AILKAT    91DAS
NO UL  1fmm   RAL  1I  REAL 11am    REAL
1955       -4.5             -4.5
2.0             2.0
2.0             2.0   -0.17
3.8             3.6    2.60
-1.3            -1.3    1.50    0.40
1960        4.4              4.4    2.50    2.18
1.8             1.8    1.65   2.14
5.3             5.3    3.83   2.80
5.6             5.6    4.23    3.16
8.5             8.5    6.47    5.12    2.76
965         2.4     3.9      2.4    5.50    4.72   3.45
5.2     5.6     5.2    5.37    5.40    3.77
*6.8     5.6      6.8    4.80   5.70    4.25
2.1     4.9     2.1    4.70    5.00    4.08
2.1     4.9     2.1    3.67    3.72    4.42
1970  15.4  14.3    15.0    15.4    6.53    6.32    5.52          6.0 -9.4  5.7 -9.7
21.2  14.7    12.7    21.2   12.90   9.52    7.46           6.0 -15.2  5.7 -15.5
8.4  10.3     6.7     8.4   15,00   9.84   7.77             6.0 -2.4  5.7 -2.7
16.4  1.0    18.0    16.4   15.33   12.70   8.85            6.0 -10.4   5.7 -10.7
34.1  34.5    31.0    34.1   19.63   19.10   1.41    7.1   6.0 -38.1   8.0 -26.1
1975   6.9  8.2     8.3      6.9   19.13   17.40   11.865    .7   6.0 -0.9  8.0  1.1
9.1  6.1      9.2     9.1   16.70   14.98   12.25    9.0   7.0 -2.1  8.5 -0.6              10.2  1.1
10.0  7.9      7.3    10.0    8.67  15.30   12.57    8.4   7.0 -3.0   8.5 -1.5              10.9  0.9
7.3  7.6      9.3     7.3    8.80   19.48   13.09    8.6   7.0 -0.3  8.5  1.2              10.9  3.6
17.5  17.6    15.2    17.5   11.60   10.16   14.65    9.5   7.0 -10.5  10.5 -7.0            12.3 -5.2
1960  18.2  18.2    15.6    18.2   14.33  12.42   14.91    10.2   9.0 -9.2  14.0 -4.2             12.1 -t.i
13.1  15.0    11.0    13.1   16.27   13.22  14.10   20.8   9.8 -3.3  13.7  0.6  17.1  4.0  12.5 -0.6
10.2  10.3    8.4    10.2   13.83   13.26   14.28   11.0   9.8 -0.4  15.7  3.5  15.2  5.0  19.8  3.6
10.0  10.0    11.6    10.0   11.10   15.80  13.64    1.2   9.7 -0.3  13.6  3.6  14.9  4.9  14.2  4.2
50.4  50.0    48.9    50.4   23.53   20.38   15.27   19.3   9.9 -40.5  23.5 -26.9  22.2 -28.2  28.5 -21.9
1985  23.1  23.1    17.9    23.1   27.83   21.36   16.89   14.4  10.8 -12.3  19.7 -S.4  21.1 -2.0  26.7  3.6
0.8  0.8              0.8   24..n   18.90   16.06   14.2   8.6  7.8  11.2 10.4  12.3 11.5  14.3 13.5
5.5                   5.5    9.80  17.96  15.61   14.1
7.5                   7.5    4.60   17.46   15.63   14.4
9.0                   9.0    7.33   9.18   14.78   14.7
1990  9.0                    9.0    8.50   6.36   13.66   14.4
8.0                   8.0    8.67   7.80   13.35   13.7
8.0                   8.0    8.33   8.30   13.13   13.7
8.0                   8.0    8.00   8.40   12.93   13.3
8.0                   8.0    8.00   8.20    6.69   12.0
190   8.0                    8.0    8.00   8.00    7.18   12.0
AVRL4m:    16.00 Dr 0! 15is mm mm 1970-1986  S 15 YI ) fMIL.                               10109187
16.05 O (PI 15 WAL 1NM 1970-1966( aAS? 15 WAN)
13.65 3 On 20 8WA  MM 1966-1996
9.774 CB Q1 30 WA  3WM 1955-195



- 86 -
INFIATION                              ANNEX 8
INFUTION                              Page 2
a  K Om ) pa             on i)             *    w m PA
I..I
so MVIN AV 1AGS ONTE1P
im    im   i        m      im     i         m     i       1990 5
l   TitNi           +   is 7) &to mML
4..
a~~~
- . 
15
0o ,TN           ,       IShi*                   UM



- 87 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
REAL INTEREST RATES
-U.
ISS  INS    iNS     iSI     ionS    IS      iNs    ion S
RhWI        4. WTM lap             Q M-AL MM                   A   T-INL   D



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
Pase 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NATIONAL HOME MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION
Objectives and tunctions
1.             The National Home Nortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) is a
public corporation established in 1979 under PD 1267 of December, 1977 for
the development and operation of a secondary market for residential mortgages
In the Philippines. NHMFC makes forward purchase commitments to buy up to a
specified amount of mortgages from private and government banks accredited by
the Corporation in accordance with prescribed standards. Under its initial
operating plan, NHMFC was to act as trustee for funds of the Home Development
Mutual Fund (HDMF, also known as Pag-IBIG) which were not to be placed in
mortgages, but in other investments to be used as an incentive and liquidity
reserve for NHUFC borrowings -- initially six-year bonds (called Bahayan
Mortgage Participation Certificates, BMPC) and later two-year bonds (Bahayan
Certificates, BC). More recent borrowings have been marketed as corporate
debentures and not as secured notes.   These borrowings finance the mortgage
purchases. The Housing Finance Corporation (HFC), recently renamed the
Housing Insurance Guaranty Corporation (HIGC), insured NHMFC's mortgages
against cash flow interruptions and/or default. Eventually mortgages were to
be securitized and sold in the Philippine capital market. Private and
government banks participate in the housing finance system th.-^gh mortgage
loan origination, loan servicing, and provision of construation
(developmental) loans. The NHMFC was intended to complement private banking
activity in housing finance, providing a liquidity mechanb    e whic.h was to
make long-term mortgage investment more attractive. Though ML,=F was me&at to
be eventually privatized, to date this has not occurred.
2.       Government banks have dominated NHNMC loan originations,  eccounting
for 45% of all units  financed and 41% by volume  of  financi=g.    The
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) was by far the most active single
bank, representing 42% of all units funded and '8% of amounts lent.  Thus,
private banks originated and serviced only a .ittle over half of NHMFC's
portfolio. For loan origination, banks were pa14 3%.
3.    Prior to the establishment of the MNS housing finance system the
principal institutional sources of housing finance were the Government
Service Insurance System (GSIS) and the Social Security System (SSS) which
provided housing loans only for members. These organizations, however,
devoted only a minor share of their investable funds t* housing, preferring
higher yielding or more prestigious investments snh as airlines and hotels.
During the first half of the 1980s, sboeter investments by these agencies
declined sharply and were finally suspended in 1985.   Insurance companies
continued to play an insignificant role in housing finance.



- 90 -
Page 2
Organization. Management and Staffiun
4.      The NHMFC functions under the guidance of a Board of Directors, the
composition of vhich is given in Annex 10. The Corporation has recently been
reorganized and placed under the Office of the President.    It is now
structured around 13 Departments reporting to five Group managers: Finance,
Mortgage Management, Credit and Collections, Treasury and Legal and
Administration.   Three   of   these   Groups   (Mortgage   Management,
Credit/Collections, and Treasury) report to the Senior Vice President for
Operations; the remaining two to the Senior Vice President for Staff
Services. The NHMFC is managed on a day-to-day basis by an Executive Vice
President. Though a President has always existed, he has traditionally not
been full time. Chart 31135 presents NHNFC's current organization.
5.        NHMFC has some 470 staff, including 350 regular employees and 120
temporary staff recruited to help clear a backlog of accounting work. This
represented about 1 staff per 100 mortgages in 1986. To allow the Corporation
to take on the new role envisioned for it in Government's rationalization of
the housing sector, NHMFC plans considerable staff strengthening in a variety
of functions including corporate planning, computerized management
information systems, mortgage accounting, underwriting and financial
management.
Qgerational Performance
6.           From the beginning of its operations in 1980 through mid-1986,
NHMFC financed some 48,000 dwellings worth P6.2 billion (US$304 million) in
mortgages.   As indicated in Table IX-I, NMFC's operations expanded rapidly
from 973 units financed in 1980 for a mortgage value of P217 million to
16,929 units in 1984 for a total mortgage value of P2,223 million.
Thereafter, the Corporation's lending declined as the effects of the economic
crisis on housing construction began to be felt, until lending in mid-1986
and half of 1987 was suspended. The primary cause of suspension was that the
Corporation's major source of funds -- the Pag-IBIG Provident Fund -- was
temporarily discontinued.
Table IH-I
NFMC ANNUAL PERFORNANCE 1980-85
1980  1981  1982   1983   1984   1985  1986    Total
Annual Takeouts (MCRs)  217   124   545  1,887  2,193    529    737   6,232
Annual Growth Rate   NA (42%)  340%   246%    16%  (76%)    39%
Houses Financed         973 1,454 5,174 15,229 16,929  3,648* 4,593* 48,000
Annual Growth Rate   NA   49%  255%   194%    11%  (79%)    25%
Beneficiaries           991 1,668 7,905 27,504 33,002  6,931* 7,808* 85,809
Borrowers per Unit      1.0   1.1   1.5    1.8    1.9    1.9    1.7
Avg Unit Cost (P'000)   223    85   105    124    130   145*    160      130
* Estimated



- 91 -
A    9
Page 3
7.        The Corporation has not attempted to seek a geographical or income-
based dispersion in its lending portfolio. Based on a sample taken in March
1985, two thirds of its loans had gone to borrowers in Manila, about 16% to
Luzon, 15% to the Visayas, 1.2% to Mindanao and 0.3% elsewhere.
8.         Lending by NHMFC has been skewed towards upper-income borrowers,
almost exclusively the top 15% -- 20%, as shown in Table It-II. Since funds
were sourced from the contributions of predominantly lower-income Pag-IBIG
contributors, the result was a regressive transfer of resources from poor to
rich. Figure IX-III presents the income profile of HD)F contributors and that
of NHMFC borrowers, in which a serious mismatch is evident. Due to growing
public awareness of this issue, and consequent public protests stemming in
part from resistance to Pag-IBIG deductions as economic conditions worsened,
provident fund contributions were made voluntary at the end of 1986.
Table IX-Il
AVERAGE MORTGAGE AND AFFORDABILITY
Affordable to Top
Average Mortgage       x % of Metro Manila
1980                 223,000                      5%
1981                  85,)00                     20%
1982                 105,000                     20%
1983                 124,000                     15%
1994                 130,000                     14%
19bE                 145,000                     16%
1986                 160,000                     15%
9.       The average mortgag% size advanced by NHMFC  In 1986 was P160,000,
affordable to the top 15% of the urban population assuming affordability of
two times annual household income. At the outset, most of the Corporation's
mortgage purchases were from banks utilizing NIMFC's liquidity offer to
transfer existing mortgagAs out of their portfolio. These were almost
exclusively for higher-incoae groups, resulting in an initially high average
mortgage value of P 223,, 0 affordable to about the top 5% of the Metro
Manila population. Average unit costs of new construction financed In 1981
dropped to P85,000, thereafter steadily rising along with inflation and
remaining affordable only to the most affluent 15% -- 20% (Table IX-II).
10.           Average loans per borrower are much lower than the average
mortgage, since most units are financed by the combined borrowing of two or
more Pag-IBIG members. In 1985, for example, the average mortgage per unit
was about P145,000 while the average loan per borrower was only P74,000,
implying an average 1.9 borrowers per unit.   Prior to 1984, NUMFC also
offered an "open housing" program, under which It allowed non-Pag-IBIG
members to borrow at a higher interest rate (para 17). The Corporation's
liberal "tack-on" policy enabled Pag-IBIG members to enter joint ventures
with nonmembers who might be entirely unrelated for the purpose of acquiring



- 92 -ANEX 9
Page 4
a house. Since most open housing loans were large, averaging P 322,OC in
1984, this policy served to reduce the number of households benefiting from
UHMFC's limited resources, although it increased yields on the overall
portfolio. As of mid-1986, 79% of the Corporation's loans were to Pag-IBIG
members while 15% were open housing loans and 6% loans to others. The open
housing loan program was discontinued in 1984 owing to NNWC 's liquidity
problems.
Figure 1K-III
INCOME PROFILE OF NIUDC BORROWERS AND RDW MEBERS
("aple June, 1984)
70
40-
j40    XBX gl 
20-
01
Below I   m    ,11!11111
F~~I ncFAl P*rj 1M=ell
II.     Assetlouities Structure:  As of the end of 1985, National Home's
assets were predoamInatly (88%) In mortgage contract receivables, of whiict-
about 10% was current.   Another 9% of assets were in deferred charges,
representing operating losses since 1980 which had been capitalized and were
to be amortized against future earnings through the mid-1990s. The UDUF trust
funds totaling P3.9 billion at year end comprised the largest single
liability (57), followed 1Ly notes and bonds (P1.8 billion or 26%). Current
Liabilities represented about 13%. with equity of about 4%, as shown in Table
IX-IV. Though initially Lntended to be the Corpration's primary fundiug
source, capital market instrtments (notes and bonds) initially contributed
only about balf of UHIEC funds, and by end-1985 comprised about a quarter.
The ratio of market borrowlngs to Pag-IBIG never exceeded about 1:1.  The



- 93 -
Page 5
NHNIC's historical and projected financial statements from 1980-1993, Income
statesents, balance sheets, and sources and applications of funds statemnts
are presented In Annex 11.
Table Z-IV
NMUNC CgNPARAIVK RALANCI sHnMs 1985 AnD 1936
ASSETS                    1983    1986      EQUITIES            1985     1986
Current Asseets ................ 773 210 1,4 530 Current Llabllltles   864 120 1,467 43
Current NCR*             83  10  22  1  Lona-Term Liabilltles.. ,772 830 1,165 34
Cash, Securltles Other    146  20  976 290  'HOF Trust Fund   3,944 570    0  0
Accounts Receiva6le     544  I0  8264    Notes/Bonds          I,7393 260 1,059 31
nvesents .5.....       ,,518 790 1,528 450   HNS Truse Fund       35 21  106  3
Hortage Contr Reevbl    5,495 790 1,497 440 Other Lablllties ......  62  10  60 
MWS Trust Funds tPSSP)   23  0o  32  10   Undlstrb Coll        272  40  736 *2
FieSeJd Assets ./Oth        4  09    2  00   Less Aplied         216  30  648 if
Deferred Chares/O    ..her . 658  90   6 20      Ne undIstrib:    56  10  883
Deerreo Charges (loses)   613  90  52   0    Other liabllltles   6  00  172  5
Other                    45  1    11  00 Equlty .255  40  525 15
Capital           195  30  500 15
Retalnded Earnings    60  10  2S  1
~~~~~~~~~~~~............................................................
TOTAL  6,953 1000 3,417 1000           TOTAL  6,953 1000 3,417 100
12.       EIinaACiAL Position:  At end-1985, 110C's financlal conditLon could
only be characterised as Lusolvent In view of lts serious capital lmpairment
and liquldlty problems. The Corporatlon had been reporting small annual
profLts but had ln fact been Lncurring losses which reached P613 million by
December 1985. At thli poLit, National Home was teohnLcally bankrupt wLth a
negative net worth of P358 (US$17.5) million. The problems vbich led to the
Corporations Insolvency were:
(a)  lack of sound financial planLnig;
(b)  negative spread (due to fallure of cross-subsidLes);
(C)  liberal loan terms ln conjunctlon wlth weak credit appraisal
criteria;
(d)  poor collectlons; and
(e)  accounting backlogs.
ZiancLal kr    M leas
13.        (a) PLMancial Planning:   Over the last few years lack of funds
to mest lts oblIgatlons was UOC's most pressing problem.  The Corporation's
current ratlo was 11.5 ln 1982, but 'clined sharply thereafter to 0.9 In
1985. However, lts primary problem was not reflected In Lts balance sheet.
The Corporation lssued Lines of Commltment to orLgiLating banks wLthout
arranging the requLsite flnancing, assuming the capital market would provide
adequate coverage at reasonable prlces as and when needed.  The banks, in
turn, Issued constructlon loans and commLtments to bullders for the
associated mortgage flnancLng. Unusually hIgh inflation drove interest rates
to 20%-40% In 1984 when bullders had completod constructlon and these
commItments fell due, and forced 1101C to suppiement its Pag-IBI0 borrowings
wLth market borrowings costtng up to 33% to meet even a portlon of Its
comitment obligations. At year-end 1985 the CorporatIon's portfollo of P5.5
billion was financed with about P3.9 billlon of 3D14 funds (70%), with the
balance covered by 11.6 billion In high cost IC's, 11C1'  and debentures. In



94
ANNEX 9
Page 6
December, facing heavy pressures from bankers and builders to clear up
commitments which had been awaiting payment longer than 8 months, the
corporation "sold" P278 million in existing mortgages to local banks,
promising to repurchase this paper by mid-1986. The repurchase agreements
were on a verbal, "good faith" basis and were not reflected in NHWFC's
balance sheet. Despite this effort, as of year end a balance of P1.0 billion
(US$49 million) overhang of contractual takeout obligations remained,   the
majority of which were not yet paid as of August, 1987.   During 1986 and
1987, NHMFC's funding requirements to meet bonds falling due, repurchase
agreements, the takeout backlog, and subsidy needs due to the negative spread
on its portfolio were estimated at over 3.0 billion, substantially in excess
of anticipated inflows from mortgage repayments and new Pag-IBIG borrowings
of about P1.7 blllion.
14.        As ?MFC's liquidity needs grew, funds available from HDMF for
housing shrank.   Facing mounting pressures for the Fund's termination as
economic conditions worsened, HDMF intensified efforts to provide more of its
contributors with benefits through small provident loans, consequently
reducing its housing investments as shown in Table IX-V.    Though probably
essential to HDNF's survival, this move exacerbated NHNFC's liqiuidity
problem. With interest rates an unprecedented levels and Pag-IBIG
retrenching, the Corporation faced a severe liquidity crisis.
Table IX-V
SHARE OF HDNF COLLECTIONS INVESTED IN HOUSING
1980    1981   1982     1983    1984    1985
Cumulative Collections (Pm)   10     124    769    1,874   3,194   6,000
Cumulative Investment
in Housing (NHNFC)           1     121     754   1,852   3,095   3,944
% Invested in Housing        10%     98%      98%     99%     97%     66%
% Invested in Provident
Loans/Other                90%     2%        2%     1i       3%     33%
15.       The primary cause of NHMFC's liquidity problems was its lack of
financial planning, the consequences of which were compounded by unusual
economic conditions. As noted above, mortgage purchase commitments were made
to originating banks, but without simultaneous arrangement for the requisite
financing, leaving NHMFC vulnerable to market forces and the decisions of
other agencies (e.g. HDMF) to meet its contractual obligations. It was thus
highly exposed when the 1983 crisis emerged.
16.      (b) Negatis& Spread: The Corporation's initial Business Plan called
for a cross-subsidized interest rate structure: yields on open housing loans
to upper income groups and earnings on other high-yielding investments were
expected to cover the proposed 9.5% subsidized fixed rate on Pab-IBIG



- 95 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7
mortgages.   Average costs were expected to be 12.5% and average yields
13.85%, leaving a positive spread of 1.35% to cover NHMFC's administrative
costs, as shown in Table IX-VI.
Table IX-VI
SPREAD IN NHMYC INITIAL BUSINESS PLAN
REVENUES                                    COSTS
Asset          Volume  Yield Rate    Fund Source         Volume    Rate
NCR-Open Housing 10%       15.5%        BMPC's - Series A   25%
10.0%
Pab-IBIG           40%       9.5%               - Series B   25%      16.0%
Other Investments  50%      17.0%       HDMF Trust Fund      50%      12.0%
Weighted Average:  100%    13.85%                           100%      12.5%
17.      In actuality the spread turned negative.  The NHMFC originated loans
at 9% fixed interest rate over 25 years to Pag-IBIG members, just below the
planned level. "Open Housing" loans to non-members were also extended up to
P200,000 per borrower, at just above the expected rate -- 16% over 15 years.
Pag-IBIG borrowings, on which the Corporation paid HDMF 12.75% over a term of
20 years, were not placed in mortgages, but in other higher yielding
Investments as intended. However, while profitable, these investments did not
produce the expected surplus to be used for cross-subsidy. Series A (tax
free) bonds also proved unattractive to the market, forcing NUNYC to utilize
the higher-cost series B. These events unsettled MUYC's delicate cross-
subsidy formula from the outset. Meanwhile, by purchasing fixed rate
mortgages yielding 9% (with fees, points and charges, 10.2%), without
adjusting for changes in its cost of funds the Corporation locked itself from
the beginning into both a negative spread and term mismatch on member loans,
counting on anticipated profits to cover the assured losses.
18.       As rates fluctuated and then sharply  rose following the 1983/84
crisis, NHMWC was forced to liquidate its other investments and utilize HDHF
funds  to meet  its mortgage commitments.    Interest rates  on government
securities soared to 41% by year-end 1984. As noted above, NHHEC was forced
to discount its two-year bonds to yield as much as 33% to remain competitive
and attract the funds it iequired to meet even a portion of its mortgage
takeout commitments. Since it was not marketing mortgages per so, but
instead floating its own bonds and debentures, NHMFC faced the typical
problem of savings and loan institutions world-wide -- of fixed-rate, low-
yield assets  and  floating-rate,  high-cost  liabilities.    Actual  spreads
reached negative 4% in 1985 as shown in Table IV-VII.
19.       As a result, the Corporation began incurring losses in 1983 which
were capitalized and included under "deferred charges" to be amortized from
future Housing Contributory Fund (HCF) earnings, under which an additional



- 96 -
ANNEXL9
Page 8
10% is collected after the third year of the mortgage.   This practice of
capitalizing losses vas approved by the Board, justified on the grounds that
the 1983-84 crisis and inflationary spiral led to an unusual interest rate
structure which represented abnormal business conditions and should be
amortized over a period of years.  However, even without the crisis, the
weighted yield on Pag-IBIG mortgages would have been 10.9%, still well below
NHNFC's cost of funds, and V.NFC's losses would have continued.   As of
December 31, 1985, deferred charges totaled P6L3 (US$30) million. Offset
against NHNPC's equity of P255 (US$ 13) million, a negative net worth
remained of P358 (US$17.5) million.
Table It-VII
NIMFC ACTUAL SPREADS. 1981-85    Source: UNHYC
Weighted      Weighted                  Establishment
Year      Return         Cost         Spread        Costs         Profit/Loss
1981      12.43%         10.07%        2.36%         1.32%           1.04%
1982      12.59%         10.90%        1.69%         0.71%           0.98%
1983      12.60%         13.86%       (1.26%)        0.92%          (2.18%)
1984      12.41%         13.95%       (1.54%)        0.78%          (2.32%)
1985      14.00%         18.00%       (4.00%)        0.96%          (4.96%)
20.        (c) Lending Terms/Credit ApMraisal:  NMIMC's lending terms were
influenced by EDNI's desire to service its membership and therefore quite
liberal.   The Corporation offered 90% financing plus originating fees and
points totaling 7% (four points to NRMYC and three points to the originating
institution) which were capitalized and added to the loan amount, bringing
the effective loan-to-value ratio to about 97%. The commensurate downpayment
was therefore only about 3%. Loan amounts of four times annual salary were
allowed, regardless of other debt obligations. The multiplier was applied
blindly without a proper credit evaluation.   The Corporations "tacking"
policy was equally liberal. While individual loans could not exceed
P100,000, up to three members could tack into a single property with a
maximum mortgage of P300,000. No special conditionality applied if two wage
earners combined borrowings -- as they typically did. Though loan servicing
payments were limited to 30% of "gross family income," this included not only
the spouse, but relatives to the fourth degree removed. Open housing loans
to non members could be combined with member loans. The combined effect of
these liberal policies allowed eztended families, members and total strangers
to pool their incomes, and thus qualify for a much larger loan than the
homeowner himself could afford. Under such liberal terms, many borrowers
overextended themselves and experienced payment difficulties during the
depressed 1983-84 period. At that point NmMIC began to encounter serious
collection problems. However, as the mortgages were Insured by HICC, NHKFC
felt no compulsion to tighten its credit terms.
21.       (d) Collectio: NMIC collections performance has been seriously
deficient, having substantially deteriorated since 1984, and is presently a
major concern. Collections against current amounts due net of arrears
averaged 681 over the last five years. Thus arrears have mounted each year.



'.97 ^                             ANNEX 9
Page 9
Improvement was evident from 1982 to 1984, when collections rose from 60% to
83%, but declined sharply thereafter to 67% in 1986.  Collections including
arrears averaged 60% over the last five years with no discernible trend. (By
comparison, NHA's collection rate including arrears for a much lower income
clientele was reported at 57% in 1985 and 52% in 1986 including resettlement
properties.) Cumulative performance including all payments due and made, but
net of any compounding of interest on arrears was 71% in 1986. Average number
of months receivable stood at 6.5 months. Tables IX-VIII to Il-X present
NHWMC collections data.
Table IX-VIII
ANNUAL COLLECTIONS NET OF ARUAP.S
(P million)
Period   Current Amt   Amount Collected    % Net       Arrear.    Averg No.
Due            (Gross)        Efficiency  PA  Cum   Mo. Recvbls
1980          2.7             0.9            33%      1.8   1.8    8.0
1981         25.1            20.0             M%      5.1   6.9    3.3
1982         88.9            53.3            60%    35.6  42.5    5.7
1983        186.3           111.8            60%    74.5 117.0    7.5  177.7BS
1984        465.3           385.9            83%    79.4 196.4    5.1
1985        760.8           524.9            70%   235.9 432.3    6.8  510.4BS
1986 NCH    233.6           156.9            67%    76.7 509.0    6.5
Table Il-Il
ANNUAL COLLECTIONS INCLUDING ARREARS
(P million)
Period       Total Amount       Amount Collected    % Efficiency    Arrears
Due with Arr.         (Gross)                          Carrd. Fwd
1980             2.7                 0.9                 42%            1.8
1981            26.9                20.0                 74%            6.9
1982            95.8                53.3                 56%           42.5
1983           228.8               111.8                 49%          117.0
1984           582.3               385.9                 66%          196.4
1985           957.2               524.9                 55%          432.3
1986 (Mch)     665.9               156.9                 NA           509.0



- 98 -
fim9
Page 10
Table IX-IX
CUMULaTIVE COLLECTIONS
Not of Compounding on Arrears
(P million)
Period      Amount Due (Cu)       Amount Collected (Cum)       % Efficiency
1980              2.7                      0.9                     33%
1981             27.8                     20.0                     75%
1982            116.7                     74.2                     64%
1983            303.0                    186.0                     61%
1984            768.3                    571.9                     74%
1985          1,529.1                  1,096.8                     72%
1986 (Mch)    1,762.7                  1,253.7                     71%
22.       The low rate of collections on NEMFC's portfolio is due to (a) the
poor performance QZ NHMFC's collecting banks in combination with (b) the
Housing Finance Company's (HFC) lengthy delays in enforcing sanctions
(foreclosures) and (c) NHIFC's own accounting backlog and consequent lack of
collection management and follow-up.   National Home collects through
servicing banks which are responsible for issuing delinquency notices on an
agreed schedule. The banks must make up the first three installments of
payment arrears from their own funds -- a requirement that NHMFC has not
always enforced. The servicing bank maintains accounting records and is
supposed to remit copies to NHMFC monthly. The HIGC insures the loans and is
supposed to cover any remaining difference between the amount collected and
the amount due. These mechanisms initially worked satisfactorily, and in its
early years NHMFC reported collection efficiency of 100% including payments
against the bank's and HIGC's guarantees. Collections were therefore a
neglected area of the Corporation's adminisuration.
23.       Collections became a pressing issue following the banking shakedown
which accompanied the 1983/84 economic crisis. Some 30% of NHMIC's servicing
banks were closed and banks controlling nearly 60% of the Corporation's
lending volume were either closed or were being restructured.   The DBP's
prolonged and grave financial difficulties have had a particularly severe
effect on the Corporation's perforcmance since it originated 42% of NHMFC's
mnrtgages.   The DBP accounts now represent half of NMIFC's total arrears.
Since accounting records of the closed and restructured banks are incomplete,
NHHFC sought in some cases to transfer the collections function to other
banks and in others took over the task itself.
24.       Follow-up on collections has also been poor. Part of the problem is
that responsibility is administratively split betwee:. three agencies: NWHMC,
its servicing banks, and HIOC. Most servicing banks have not followed up
with delinquent borrowers. Some may send a single follow-up letter, but few
make personal visits to delinqueat borrowers to collect arrears or make
arrangements for payment. The HIGC is actually responsible for follow-up and
foreclosure of NHMFC accounts and, since its inception, has been assigned 783
delinquent accounts worth P86.7 million. However, this represents only a



- 99 -
ANE  9
Page 11.
small proportion of accounts with serious arrears. Of these, 297 or 38% vere
returned to NHMFC, 190 having settled their accounts and the rest for
technical and othar reasons. HIGC has foreclosed on only a few of these
acc . nts, but none have completed the period of redemption and been
repossessed, sold and the account cleared. Foreclosure in the Philippines is
difficult, politically volatile, and prolonged, usually taking more than
three or four years. The NHMFC, for its part, has been preoccupied with its
liquidity problems and has paid little attention to collections until
recently. Thus borrowers have been allowed to fall into lax payment habits.
25.            A  further complicating  factor constraining  foltow up  on
delinquencies and the reason that so few accounts have been turned over to
HIGC for foreclosure is NHMFC's 13 month backl;.g of postings. As of December
31, 1985 P272 (US$13) million of undistributed collections had not been
posted to individual accounts. The Corporation had tentatively applied P216
or 79% of this amount, based on estimates, leaving a balance of P56 million.
Posting was slow both because it is still being done manually, and because
manpower for this work was diverted to complete the Corporation's
computerization effort.   In September, 1986 the Bank approved funding for
supplementary contractual assistance under Loan 1821-PH to expedite postings
and clear up the backlog. The Corporation, hovever, did not utilize these
funds. As of December 31, 1986 the total amount undistributed had grown to
P736 (US$36) million of which P648 or 88% was tentatively applied, leaving a
rising balance of P88 million.
26.          In early 1987, P4.7 billion of NHMHC's P6.2 billion mortgage
portfolio was transferred back to HDMF, back-dated to mid-1986. The HDMF,
which has a large, now somewhat underutilized staff since it became
voluntary, has assumed responsibility for computerizing the records and
posting back-payments. Since collections henceforth will fall to HDMF, the
Fund can offset amonnts due against Pag-IBIG members current savings
balances, thus collecting by fiat a portion of arrears. Future payments can
be deducted at source together with now volvutary Pag-IBIG payments. However,
as of July 1987, a substantial balance of P70 (US$35) million in interest
receivables plus P87 (US$4) million in HIGC receivables still remained on
NHMFC's balance sheet. Discussions are underway as to the treatment of these
arrears.
Accounting
27.         NHMFC's accounting functions have been fragmented among several
departments and involve detailed recording of information which is only
marginally useful. As noted above, there is a large backlog of postings, with
the result that information on delinquent accounts is inaccurate, hampering
follow-up and  foreclosure  efforts.    Annual  income  statements  are also
inaccurate with respect to interest earnings since they are based on
estimates of interest and principal components of the unposted collections.
28.       NHMFC's Treasury Group maintaitns the accounts for bonds, HDMF trust
funds,  interest payable and notes payable.   Its Accounting Services
Department under the Finance Group keeps accounts of all operating
expenditures,  fixed assets and liabilities  for expenditure and prepares
entries and keeps control accounts on the basis of daily transaction reports



- 100 -                            AM  9
Page 12
of the other departments.   It also maintains subsidiary ledgers for cash,
loat accounting by originating institution and by lending program -- in
effect duplicating the record-keeping of existing departmental sourc-
documents, from which it then prepares a daily trial balance.
29.       NHMFC's accounting procedures also show certain discrepancies.  In
1984, for example, the Corporation took a credit for P 25 million as a
subsidy which it claimed from Government but which has not yet been received
and is still reflected as "other receivables." Further, while it amortizes
discounts on BMPCs and BCs over the life of these certificates, it recognizes
commitment charges on loans as income on receipt and does not take credit for
them over the life of the loan.
30.       The Corporation's recent reorganization is intended to streamline
financial functions and eliminate duplication or extraneous work wherever
possible, and should help address the preceding problems. In addition, under
the associated technical assistance, training and studies component,
technical assistance is planned to strengthen NHMFC's accounting and internal
auditing functions.
31.        Work on computerization of NHNFC's accounts began in 1982-83 and
proceeded slowly until 1985 -ztan the program came to a standstill due to a
change in Corporation leadership. In 1986, after another management change, a
crash program for computerization was launched and by June, 1987, two of the
six major computer programs needed were completed and tested: the Commitment
Line Monitoring Module, and the Take-Out Module.   The Accounting and the
Automated Billing & Collections Modules were completed in early 1988.
Acquired Assets Management and Foreclosure Modules will be undertaken during
1988. Details of NHMFC's computerization program are presented in Annex 10.
.onclusiou
32.           NHMFC has thus far functioned as a member-oriented lending
institution although its lending has, in fact, been skewed towards the most
affluent members and some non-members. It has not developed a secondary
mortgage market per se, but has been operating as a retail housing finance
agency. The nature of NHMFC's primary business is obscured by the use of
originating banks through which it has operated. The mechanisms of its
"secondary" operations, e.g. collecting banks and HIGC insurance have not
served the Corporation well, and have, in fact, contributed to its problems.
The fact that NHNFC's business is primarily retail housing finance must be
recognized, and its operations and staffing revised to better serve this
function. Since, itt reality, there is very little reteil housing finance
activity in the Philippines, MWiMC will first develop this business and
address secondary market development thereafter. Government has endorsed
NHMFC's continuance as a mortgage finance institution, and the Corporation
has prepared a Policy Statement and an institutional Action Plan (Annex 10)
to correct the problems outlined herein.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
NATIONAL WRE MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION
may 19, 1908
Xnternatlona :ank for leconstructLon
and Development
1818 a street .V.
washlngton. D.C.
Centleson
This serves as a letter of clarification on the enclosed Polily
Statement and Operatitg Guidelines of this institution approved by the
Board on March 1, 1988.
I* Credit 1valuation
I ,;ould like to reaffirm NHDYC's intention as set out In the
above PolLcy Statement to function as a viable and prudently mnaged
financial Institution.  To this end, it is fuxther our Intention to
institute within the next 12 months, credit evaluation procedures
approprlate to the low income cllentelle we serve and to the size of
the loans affordable by this clientelle.  soeer, due to the present
lack of an acceptable and adequate system to implkaent such
evaluation, we propose first to review approprlate evaluation methods,
utllizing In the interim, simpler procedures.
As a first step, we shall seek from each of our applicants a
statement of their respectlve long-term loan liabilities, to determine
the extent of such liabilities, In cases whore an aff davit of the
borrower is used to determine his lncome, as under UDWC' s non-member
program, the amount of any long-term debt outstanding will be utilized
to arrive at the allowable loan limlt of the borrower.
Re: Ceilint  on   mn Aammt
It is our intention to enforce a lilmt on acceptance of loans
from P180,000 to P250,000 of PS00 million or December 31, 1989,
whichever cones sooner. Our goal, however, is to serve lower income
groups and we view thls temporary measure as necessary to launch the
new program and Oprimo the pump".
Re: Terms on Bank-AsiLsted Loans
Please find attached the terms and conditions agreed for World
Bank assLsted loans applicable to the first year of operations.
Yours uincerel 
Authorized Representative
Nattonal Rome Mortgage finance Corporatlon



-102 -                            ANNEX 1C
Page 2
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporatlon
AGRED =TERMS AND CONDITIONS ON NMDEC SUBLOANS
APPLICALE TO WORLD BANK FINANCED LOANS
may 19. 1988
The terms and conditions set out below have been agreea upon as
applicable to the first year of the Project, and may be supplemented
as necessary.
a. Refinancing of Existing Unts: Bank funds vill not be utilized
for refinancing existing units
b. Borrower Eligibility: as set out in NMDFC's Circular No. ULP-011
c. Interest rates:    9% for loans up to P60,000
12% for loans from P60,000 to P108,00C
d. Ceiling:   70th percentile of the urban Income curve, presently
calculated at P108,000 (December, 1987 incone curve)
e. Average to be Maintained on Income Distribution: to be developed
f. Loan Amount/Tacking:   as proposed in the NMIMC Corporate
Clrcular No. ULP-Oll of May 4, 1988 provided that a study be
undertaken within the 12 amonth period on (a) the extent of
tackitg under the new and previous portfolios, and (b) the
relationship of tcking provisions and payment performance;
S. Loan Period: up to 25 years
h. Grace Period: a grace perLod on principal not exceeding 3 years
may 'e allowed
i. Loan to Value Ratio: not to exceed respectively 90% and 80% for
loans of up to P60,000 and P60,000-P120,000 respectively, unless
accompanied by a varranty by the originating entity or a credit
insurance fee as set out in NEIfC's May 4, 1988 Circular No.
ULP-011
j. mortgages subject to graduated payments will not be eligible for
Bank financing
k. Collateral: first real estate mortgage or equlvalent
The foregoing is premised upon onlending terms from GOP to NHMFC of
8.5%, 20 years, 5 years grace period, vith the foreign exchange risk
borne by GOP.



-103 -                      ANEX 10
Page 3
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
SUMMARY
NHMFC POLICY AND OPERATING GUIDELINES
This Annex comprises two parts: (a) NHMFC's Policy
Statement, and (b) Operating Guidelines.
Part I
NHMFC POLICY STATEMENT
A. MANDATE/OBJECTIVES
1. Urban focus. Concentration on urban areas where housing
needs are most critical;
2. Volume purchases. Mortgage purchase will be made in
large volumes;
3. Geographic Spread. The program will have geographic
spread in order to ensure that program benefits are
not overconcentrated in Metro Manila;
4. Lower Income Focus. The program will serve the lower
income groups which are not adeuquately covered by
private sector financing;
5. Sustained viability of the program will be ensured;
6. Full cost recovery mechanism shall be an integral com-
ponent of the program;
7. Development and operation of a secondary mortgage mar-
KET SYSTEM.
B. ORGANIZATION POLICIES
1. Effectiveness. An effective and streamlined organiza-
tion shall be established and maintained;
2. Delegation. A flexible organizational structure shall
be developed and adopted in order to sufficiently dele-
gate duties, responsibilities and authorities, group
key activities related functions and provide levels
of adequate span of control;
3. The organization shall continue to be strengthened,
especially in areas of mortgage management operatiorns,
credit and collection operations and treasury operations.



104 -                        ANNEX 10
C. FINANCIAL POLICIES
1. Retuzn on Equity. The Corporation shall adopt a profit
policy of maintaining no less than breakeven.
2. Viable investment policies, procedures and strategies
shall be developed to improve NHMFC's return on investment.
3. Spread/Cross Subsidies. A positive spread on the total
portfolio of the Corporation shall be maintained.
4. Term and Interest Rate Match. Lending terms/rates shall
be matched with costs of borrowing.
5. Asset/Liability Management. By instituting asset-liabi-
lity management policies, developing pricing mechanisms
for assets and liabilities to reflect the true corporate
yields and costs, and as appropriate, liquidating non-
performing assets, NHMFC's interest rate exposure and
risks shall be reduced in the case of Folio I and subs-
tantively eliminated in the case of Folio II. An adjus-
table rate mortgage instrument shall be used whenever
the corresponding funding is on a variable rate bases.
6. Long-Term Private Funding. A system and attendant programs
shall be developed to attract a continuing flow of long-
term funds for housing and mortgage finance both f*rom
the public and private sectors;
7. Financial Manaaement. Financial management processes and
procedures shall be developed in order to avoid future
financial crises and backlogs by (a) institutionalizing a
formal corporate planning process, (b) developing and
using effective management tools for monitoring, timely
reaction and control, and (c) developing a Management Infor-
mation System for appropriate management level decisiOn-
making;
8. Accounting. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
shall be the basis of accounting.
D. CREDIT POLICIES
1. Forward Coverage of Commitment Line. There shall be a
full matching between purchase commitment lines (PCL's)
issued to originating financial institutions and developers
and the commensurate sources of finance;
2. Approval of Purchase Commitment Lines* PCLs amounting to
P50 million shall be approved by the Credit Committee of
NHMFC while those over P50 million shall be anproved by
the NHMFC Board of Directors.
Credit Committee. The Credit Committee shall be composed of
the Officer in Charge/Exec. Vice President, the Senior
Vice President and the Vice President of the Treasury Group.



-105 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 5
3. Authority for Loan ADproval. Borrower's credit is ap-
proved by NHMFC accredited originating financial insti-
tutiions ar- Aevelopers in accordance with the credit
appraisal criteria established by NHMFC.
E. MORTGAGE MANAGEMENT POLICIES
1. Processing Period. The Corporation shall implement a
target processing period of ten (10) business days from
date of delivery of mortgages to NHMFC to check release
for mortgages with warranties. For mortgages without
warranties, the target processing period shall be thirty
(30) business days.
2. Regional Operations. The Corporatior shall initially
establish its regional presence through its network of
accredited OFIs and visits by the central office staff
in regiional urban centers and will review the need for
regional offices as warranted.
3. Home loan origination and purchasing programs shall be
developed and expanded through developer/OFI accreditation
guidelines, improved delinquency and foreclosure proce-
dures, and expansion and improvement of servicing and
collection operations.
4. Marketina. Efficient marketing strategies shall be
developed by (a) establishirg a regional program to
promote NHMFC's new shelter program(s), (b) solidifying
developer/OFI customer base through efficient accredi-
tation procedures, commitment and purchasing guidelines
and support services, and (c) generating new customers
through marketing program development and training and
other awareness programs;
5. Graduated Amor-tization Payments. May be allowed on
condition that initial monthly amortizations should not
be less than 75% of level amortization payment.
F. COLLECTIONS ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I.Collections Manacement. The Corporation shall manage its
own loan processing, account posting, deliquency moni-
toring and foreclosures;
2. Collection Efficiency. Target collection efficiency
levels shall be 80% with 3 months or less receivables,
90% with 8 months or less and not less than 95% including
realizations from foreclosure. A loan loss reserve of
at least 5% will be maintained In addition to amounts
received as credit insurance.
3. Collecting Banks. Mortgage servicing shall no longer be



-106 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 6
a mandatory function of originating financial institu-
tions. A sufficient number of financial institutions
shall be selected as collecting banks. Weak performance
by collecting banks will reeult in their disqualification
and replacement. Neighborhood/non-government organiza-
tions may also be employed as collecting agents.
4. Collection Servicing Fee. Collecting banks will be paid
a fee o 2% of the amount collected (P&I) and may retain
payments for a float period of 22 days (between 15-30
days, averaging 22). Full payments shall not be subject
to the 2% fee;
5. Salary deduction. Collection of amortizations through the
salary deduction scheme shall be implemented whenever
possible. Only in cases when the employer is not willing
to deduct the amortization payment will the borrower be
exempted from the salary deduction scheme.
6. Subcontracting. Once the procedures are well established
and control systems in operation, the Corporation shall
subcontract eleuents of the collection system (e.g. fore-
closures), provided that overall management of mortgage
servicing remains at all times under NHMFC's own tight
control;
7. Foreclosure. The foreclosujesproeedures shall be streng-
thened and improved in accordance with the following
guidelines: (a) an account with previous payment from
take-out date shall be foreclosed when it becomes six (6)
months in arrears; (b) an account with no payments at
all is foreclosed on its third (3rd) month in arrears;
When a property is forecloed the Corporation shall deduct
all payments due it (loan p+i, penalties. interest during
redemption period, legal costs, publicity and other costs)
from the sale price.
8. Collection') Administratiovi. An ipproved collection ser-
vicing operation shall be formulated and implemented
through:
a. Computerization of the collection system for loan
amortization bookkeeping and accounting;
b. Development of standardized systems and p'ocedures
for CABs of NHMPC for collecting and accountiLxg
functions;
c. Development of standards for monitoring and evalua-
ting performance of CABs;
d. Issuance of annual statements of accounts to borrowers;
9. An improved delinquency procedure including an organized
educational program for borrowers (on their responsibi-
lities) and an organized reporting system for early de-
tection of delinquent accounts shall be established..



107 1                        AM= 10
Page 7
G. ADMINISTRATION STRATEGIES
1. Management by Objective. An Administrative/Human
Resource Management by Objective (MBO) system shall
be developed.
2. Job duties, responsibilities and &athorities shall be
defined in order to clarify management and staff roles
consistent with key activities and related functions
and operations;
3. Measurable management and staff standards of performance
and evaluation criteria in line with MBO program shall
be developed.
4. Human Resource Function to coordinate hiring, staff
training and development, salary and benefits adminis-
tration and other personnel functions shall be developed;
5. Reviews. The salary administration and benefits program
shall be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect
cbanges in duties and respponsibilities and changes in
the local job market;
6. Physical Facilities. Present facilities including head-
quarters and regional offices shall be rationalized to
determine physical facility requirements consistent with
growth targets, staffing increases and projected supply,
maintenance and procurement levels;
7. The administrative and operating budget shall be reviewed
through monthly performance analysis to ensure that ex-
penses are consistent with growth patterns, stated profit
and operation objectives and organizational viability.



108
ANNEX 10
OPERATING POLICIES              Page 8
A. Definition of borrower eligibility criteria
1. Does not own residential unit as sole or co-owner;
2. Legally able to do so.
B. Loan Uses
As may be estublished by Board ofDirectors from time
to time.
C. Loanamounts/Proportion to household income
1. Proportion of Income/Loan amount. For loans of up to
P60,000, not to exceed 22%; for loans of over P60,000
to P120,000, not to exceed 28%; for loans of over P120,000
to P180,000, not to exceed 34%; and for loans of over
P180,000, not to exceed 36%.
2. Tacking. No more than three individuals may be tacked:.
into a single loan, provided the borrowers are relatea
within the second civil degree of affinity or consanguinity.
Number can exceed three if these are living within the
same household.
D. Credit Appraisal
1. Downpayments/Loan-to-value Ratio. The amiount of loan
which may be granted shall not exceed 90% of the appraised
value of the collateral but can go to as much as 100%
on condition that the same is accompanied by a warranty
or credit insurance.
2. Credit evaluatior./Underwriting. A thorough  evaluation
of all documents presented for take-out will be under-
taken to ensure that these conform with obtaining
lending guidelines.
3. Origination Fee. Originators will be paid a fee of 2%.
E. Loan Period
1. Loan Period. Shall not exceed 25 years or the difference
between present age and 70th year of the principal bor-
rower.
2. Term Match. NHMFC will maintain a reasonable degree of
term atching between its assets and liabilities.



-109-                         ANNUl1
Page 9
F. Credit Insurance
In lLeu of an accompanying warranty, a one-time credit
insurance fee of 2% of the loan amount may be accepted.
G. Fees and Penalties
1. Commitment Fee. 1% of approved credit line, refunded upon
expiration of line except for portion committed but not
delivered; exceptions may, however, be authorized by the
Board of Directors.
2. Penalties. 1/15th of 1% on the unpaid amount per day for
borrowers; .001% per day for collecting banks.
H. Geographic Targets
In order to realizi- its regionalization objective, NHMFC has
set the follouing ideal targets in terms of number of units
and investment amount per regior. Marketing efforts will be
geared to achieve the same.
Region                  No. of Units (%)        % Investment Amount
1, Ilocos                         4.2                    3.8
2. Cagayan                        1.7                    1.6
3. C. Luzon                       9.3                   10.8
4. S. Tagalog                   11.9                    10.6
5. Bicol                          3.9                    2.8
6. W. Visayas                     6.0                   424
7. C. Visayas                     6.4                    4.3
8. E. Visayas                     2.8                    1.7
9. W. Mindanao                    2.1                    1.6
10. N. Mindanac                   4.5                    3.2
11. S. Mindanao                   5.6                    4.6
12. C. Mindanao                   2.6                    2.1
13. NCR                          38.9                   48.5
I. Income Distribution Targets
NHMFC sets the following targets of number of units and
investment volume per income decile in accordance with its
mandate of serving the lower income group.
Income Decile              No. of Units (%)       Investment Volume (%)
1st - 3rd                     45                     25 %
4th - 5th                     30                     25 %
6th - 7th                     15                     25 %
8th - 9th                     10                     25 %



- 110 -
AN -  10
Page 10
J.Lon1 s
Current intere3t rates sball be: 9% for loans of up to
P60,000, 12% for over P60,000 to P120,000, 15% for over P120,000 to
P180,000, and 16% for over P180,000 to P250,000.



is--              -            ----            q---            ----            ----                -----  - - -  - 1.  1  -  -  1.
|2itx~     1 l  I T  -- - --  l               -                       -------- m ..  .11...1....1111.11
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 . .                            1. i. -U
V    s
g Is----
i-~1  |               -     t   --   --   - --l---  --        - -   1 --- - 1 - --  1 j 
w~~~4ieII~~~~ U-t U                    U   I   U  ,.  U   1    U U , U U        jI U               
=9
U   ~~    4a         1 4n           S       1    ]'       *,      o|S} ]|F
S -;  ;sS



- 112 -
ANNEX 10
Page 12
IweC IlMtITUtIIR   vtIm   u         (CMIII)
TWILU
I             I             I              I             I              I             I
iWl                   *                             198      I    191"     1     1989    t      1990       I  1991    1     199Z    I
I__ , ~~~.                                        I .
I       ARpr   Ildi   I           Yerwl   I   YearZ   I   Ywv 3   I    Year    I
S.  cWred lsu tsflhigm t ldule                  I      I      I       I      I      I      I       1      I      I      I       I      I
Oeuepw    uanWtut1stng               I      I      bI                    I      I      I       I      I      I      I      I
Revilson                             I      I      I       I     t          1      *           I      I             I  1
6. teluromiowe    1Al                           I      I       I      I      I      I      I       I      I      I      I       I     I
-DOetelop     &Wi testirg              I      I      -          i          I      I      I       I      l      II            I
-Reladi                                1      1      I       I      I             _              I      I      I      I      I
' C.I It                                                                                I III3I  I      I      I      I      I       1      I
- H se Q training                                                              I      I      I       I      I      I      I       I     I
-Lotstus ila g                                    I                                   I                                   I       I      I
-Dtheri(i      ialuumgr_    t, etc.)              I      I      I       I                                                               I
L  MlU  lR tWlION/IllfOliISlSMA                    I.I      I       I      I      I      I      I       I      I      I      I . .1    .I
-RontStewingCimtteetlTea              cal Cstel I        I      *       I      I      I      I      I       I      I      I       I      I
-M 'sinternulrevlmotlno inftltioun                i      I              I      I      I      I       I      I      I      I       I      I
-ation TU Wdcusultac                              I   I            _           I    I   I   I   I    I   t    I   I
- epn ewlI utommtimn/onvitlS Am                  I       I      I                            I      I      I      I      I       1      I
-D im8 I                                                        I       I                                                        I       i
' q piat acquidstion                                         I  I  ,                                        I      1      I       I
- leiusa n eof tnas   t VAN                                     I       I      I                                              I          I
I      I        I        I  I              I.     I      8       I      I      I      I
18STR TIEI 6TilllIC  fINtIIIL HJOt I gCUUIItl            1      1       1      1      1      1      81             I      1      8              I
-T lme olctuce t                                  I      I      I 1d11                I              1      I                           I
-teduicalauuor  t                                 I      I      I             .   I          I       I      I      I      I      I      I
I      I      I      1      I       l      I      I      I       I      I      I      I
o1 [ lWor III'lC's rUTUE rMO          fsns M             I      I      I          I       I         I              I      I      I      I 1
-Prepn  lemof Rlente ce                           I      I      I       I      I      1-l      1           I      I      I      I      I
-Sdect Cmultants                                  I          I  I       t      I             b=' _                 I      I             I
- Cupletstutd (Vin.l kport)                       I      I       I      I      I      I                 I __                      I     I
| S           I      I I            I I  I  I  I  I
in uCa   MIIm    Orel by Legistwu re                    II                                                                                      I
a I                 t                                   a 12       I          '
RCPHIJUI1. 1V/12i8?.
2A41



113 -
Page I
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
m  INMM STATEMENT
(P fIltfon In Current Prfce.)
TABLE I
INCOME STATEMENT                        N I S t 0 0 I C A L                                     PR Oa J E C T ED
.........................................            .........................................................................................
RE  V E N UE S                1960  1981  lq82  1983  '0484  1965  1966             1987  1988  1969  1990  1991  1992  1993
intrest                         19   42    67   181   44   586   421                 226   '      198   258  394  641   1014
C*mdtment Fene                   0      1    14   4        82      0      0            0             4    10    19    30    39
Nsetltaneous                     0      4    10    22    66    88    53                0      1      1      1     1      2     3
,...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ....    . . ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... .... ...... ... ........ ... .........
TOTAL REVENUES                  19    47    91   248   S62   674   474               226   198   203   269   415   673  1056
EXPEND I TURES
.......................
Perseml Senices                  7      9   11      12    16    29  31                25   25   26    29    36  47            60
Other Operatin%it*ots            5      5      7     6    12    21    18              16    16    17    20    24    31    40
Interest  nd BBeM: Chare         2    19    55   210   500   596   648               173   127   122   173   287   482   759
Nisctllaneous                    0      1      2     9    13       0      1            2      5    11    24    42    66    85
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....          ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ........ ..
TOTAL EXPENDITURES              14    34    75   237   541   646   698               216   173   176   245   390   626   944
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....          ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ........ ..
NET INCOME                       5    13    16    11    21    28  -224                10    25    27    24        5    47   112
Incoem  Tax                     0      1      0     4      4    lu      3             4      9     9      8      9    16    39
......... ... ........ ...... ... ........ ... ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    . .....  ....    ......  ....  ....    ......  ....
NET AFTER TAX INCONE                   12    16      7   17       16 -227              7    16    17    15    16    30   73
+ Prior Ye.r AdJustments         0      0    -3    -1    -6    -5   192               80      5      5     5      5      5     5
RETAINED EARNINGS FOR YEAR    5    12    13          6    11    13   .35             -73    11    12    10    11    25    67
21-Apr-88



- 114 -
ANNEX1A
Page 2
NATIONAL HONE MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION - FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
tABLE 2                               . .............................. ........................----------------------
(Structural Analyses in Percentages)
INCOSE STATENENT                             H N    S T O R I C A L                                         P R O J E C T E D
R E V E N U E S                   1980  1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986                   1987  1988  1989  1990   1991   1992  1993
Interest                           100   89   74   73   74  87   89                            100   9998   96  95   95   96
Comnitment Fees                      0       2     15      18    15        0       0              0      1       2      4       5      4       4
lIscellaneous                         0      9     11       9     12      13      11              0      0       0       0      0       0      0
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....                 ...... .... ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ....... ... ..
TOTAL REVENUES                     100    100    100    100    100    100    100               100    100    100    100    100    100   100
E X P E N DI t U R E S
.......................
Personnel crvices                   37      19     12       5      3       4       7             11     12      13     11       9      7       6
Other Operatng Costs                26      11      8       2      2       3       4              7      8       8      7       6      5       4
interest and Bank Charges           11     40      60   8S        89      88    137             76      64     60    64        69   72        2
Nfcellaneous                         0       2      2       4       2      0       0              1      3       5      9      10     10       8
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....                 ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ....... ... ..
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                  74      72    82    96        96      96    147             95    87       87      91      94     93     89
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....                 ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ;... ... ........ ... ........ ... .......
NET INOME                           26   28  18    4    4    4  -47                               5   13   13    9    6    7  11
- Incoe Tax                          0       2      0       2      1       1       1              2      4       5      3       2      2       4
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....                 ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
NET AFTER TAX INCONE                26    26       18       3      3       3    -48               3      8       9      6       4      5       7
+ Prior Year Adjustmsnts             0       0     -3       0     -1      -1     41             35       3       3      2       1       1      0
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....                 ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
RETAINED EARNINGS FOR YEAR    26            26     14       2      2       2     -7            -32       6       6      4       3      4       6
33s  3  J       3l    3333    3          3  33              3      333 
21-Apr-88



TABLE 3                                                                                              hJANMII
Page 3
NATIONAL NME MORTGAE FINANCE CORPORTION  -  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
INCOME STATEMENT RATIOS                         (Amotmts In Pesos Mitlion at Current Prices) 
198   1961  1982  198   1984  1965  1986          1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  199   1993
..   ..       . . ..       . . ..      . ...              . . . .      . . . .     .. . .
RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS:
Net Incm                       5    13    1611I    21    28 -224                10  25    27  24  2547  112
Investment at Jan  1           0   419   682  2039  4024  6623  6953          3417  2360  2275  2558  3353  4971  7499
Investment at Doec 31        419   682  2039  4024  6623  6953  31417         2360  2275  2558  3353  4971  7499 10853
Ave. Investment in Assets   210   551  1361  3032  5324  678   5185          -I888  2317  2416  2955  4162  6235  9176
R A T I 0 :2.4   2.4   1.2   0.4   0.4   0.4  -4.3             0.4   1.1   1.1   0.8   0.6   0.7   1.2
3333333 3333  333   3333  Z333  3333  3333  33333    3333  333n  3333  333   333333
RETURN ON EQUJITY:
NetIncm                        5    13    16    11    21    28 -224             10    25    27   214   25    47 112
Equity at Jan  1               0   155   192   225   231   242   255           525   451   463   475   485   496   521
Equity at Doc 31             155   192   225   231   242   255   525           451   463   475   485   496   521   589
Averape Equity                78   174   209   228   237   249   390           488   457   469   480   491   509   555
R A T I 0 :6.5   7.5   7.7   4.8   8.9  11.3 -57.4             2.1   5.5   5.7   4.9   5.1   9.2  20.1
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED:
Net Ineomeafter taxas          5    12    16      7    17    18  -227            7    16    17    15    16    30    73
Equity.+ Lltrm Debt Jan  1 292   391   642  1943  3836  473   6089            1690  1666  1613  1917  2732  4366  6916
Equity.+ L'trm Debt Dec 31  391   642  1927  3746  4648  6027  1690           1666  1613  1917  2732  4366  6916 10274
Average Equity LT Debt       342   517  1285  2845  4242  5380  3890          1678  1640  1765  2325  3549  5641  8595
R A T I 0 :1.5   2.3   1.2   0.2   0.4   0.3  -5.8             0.4   1.0   1.0   0.7   0.5   0.5   0.8
3333333333   .t3Z   333   3333  3333  3333  33333   a33   3333  3333  3w   333333
RATE OF RETLUR  ON NET FIXED ASSETS AND INVESTMENTS:
Net Inm                        5    13    16    11    21    28 -224             10    25    27    24    25    47 112
Short Tem Investments          0     0   647   330   428   105   170           299   117   106    88    78    80    81
Accounts Receivabte (net)   107    49    98 239  434 627  848                  748 661   58    520 481   468   46?
Mortggesn                    217   341   886  277   4966  5495  1497          1151  1290  1648  2523  4165  6756 10106
Securities MHS                 0     0     0      5    II    23  31              0     0     0      0     0     0     0
Other Investments             80 233       6      0     0     0     0            0     0     0      0     0     0     0
Fixed Assets                   0     3     5     5      5     4     2            0     1     2     4      5     7     8
Tota  FAand  nvesment   40    626.  1642  3352  5844  6254  2548       2198  2069  2339  3135  4730  7311 10661
Total NFA and Investments      0 404   626     1642 3352  5844  6254   2548      219 6 2069  2339  3135  4730  7311106
Average UFA and Investment 202   515  1134  2497  4598  6049  4401            2373  2133  2204  2737  393   6021  898
ft A T I 0 : 2.5   2.5   1.4   0.4   0.5   0.5  -5.1           0.4   1.2   1.2   0.9   0.6   0.8   1.2
33zz=3333333333   33333    3333    3333                       33-33=               333    3333
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE:
Net Cash from Operations       7    31    71   217   517   614   421           137   263   291   414   643  1005  1472
Debt servicing Requirement    2    19    55   210   500   56   648             288   158   153   230   391   661  1021
Surptus Cash                   5    12    16      7  17  18-227               -150  105  138  184 252  344450
Rt A T I 0 : 3.5   1.6   1.3   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.6           0.5   1.7   1.9   1.8   1.6   1.5   1.4
21-Apr-88



116 -
Page 4
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NHMFC BAIANCE SHEET
(p million in Current Prices)
TAtIL 4
BALANCE SHEET                           H IS T O P I C AL                                       P R O J E C T E D
.... ..... . ........................................................  .........................................
A S S E T S                   1960  1981  1982  1963  1984  1965  1986              196   1988  1909  1990  1991  1992  1993
.............                ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ....      . . ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... .... ......... ............ ............ ..
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cosh                             1    14   358   549   60         39  60             102   148  162  164   189   139  143
Short Term Investmsnts           0      0   647   330   428   105   170              299  117   106    88    78   80   81
Accounts Reeivable (net)   107    49    96   239   434   627   848                   748   661   583   520   481   468   467
Inventories                      0      0      0     1      2      2      1            1      2     4      6      9    11    16
.. .....     ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     .... . . ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... .... ...... ... ........ ... ........ .....
TOTAL CURENT ASSETS            108    63  1103  1119  1424   m    1824              1150   929   855   778   757   6Y8   707
INVSTMENTS:
Mortae Contracts               217   341   866  2773  4966  S495  1497              11S1  1290  1648  2523  4165  6756 10106
Securities M S                   0      0      0     S    11    23    31               0      0      0     0      0      0     0
Other Iwestmints                80  233        6      0     0      0      0            0      0      0     0      0      0      0
i .. ........ ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....
TOTAL INESTMNS                 297   574   892  2M8  4977  SS18  1S28               1151  1290  164   2523  416S  6756 10106
PROPERTY AND E WIPHENT:
Land, Iprovements, Equipm    0          S      7     7      9      9     8             8    10    14    19    2S    32    40
- Prov'n for Depreciation        0      2      2     2      4      5     6             8      9    12    15    20    25    32
UIlTTEN  NW   VALUE P a E        0      3      5     5      5      4      2            0      1      2     4      S      7     8
OTHER ASSETS:
Deferred Chargs                  3      9    33    79   174   613    52               47    42    36   31        26    21    16
Niscellaneous                   11    33       6    43    43    45    11              12    14    16    17    17    17    17
....  ..... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....           ...... ....  .....  ....... ......  ....  ..... ............ ............ ....
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS              14    42    39   122   217   658    63                59    56    52   48    43    38    33
...   .... .... ....... ....    ......  ....    ......  ...   .... ..... ...... ..... ....... .......... ..... .....
TOTAL ASSETS                   419   682  2039  4024  663  6953  3417               2360  227S  2SS8  3353  4971  7499 10653
21-Apr-88



- 117-
TAB3LE 4                        NATIONAL HOWNEMRTGAGE FINANCE CORPORAION  -  FINANCIAL PERFORMNCE
(P mitlion In Current Prices)
EALANCE  SHEET                        HISTORICAL                                           P ROJ E C TED
L I ABIL IT I ES            1960  1961  1982  1963  1964  1965  1966           1967  1988  1969  199   1991  1992  1993
CURENT LIABILITIES:
AccowtetsPayabto               0   0   0   8 10 1830                             202224 25 2830 33
interest  & Other Payabtes   28    40    96   160  1881   846  1437             S82   556   544   532   520   507   503
Totat Current LIabitities    28    40    96   188  1891   864  1467             602  5S0   566   557   546   537   536
LONG-TERN LIABILITIES:
Notes Payabte                 83  5637  19               02M5295                  0     0      0     .0     0     0     0
Bond. Payable                152   256   699  1622  1276  1496   764           1101   901   651   776   737   587  1337
TrustHDNF                      1 121   754 1852 3095 3944            0            0     0      0     0      0     0     0
TrustMNNS                      0 1712 2233   35 106   ~                               106 106 106 106106 106
Loam                           0      0     0     0      0     0     0            814 4486 1365 3026570268242
Totat Long Term Liability   236   450  170   3515  4406  577   1165            1215  1151  1443  2247  3869  6395  9665
OTHER LIABILITIES:
Def.rr'd Credits               0   012 766450237                                 60 7361   51  45 30 29
other                          0      0     4    14  20    12  23                12     9    II    13    12    16  15
Total Other Lfabflftfes    0   0 16908462 260                                    926827264 574                         4
Total LiabiLities            264   490  1814  379   6361  6698  269            1908  1812  2083  2866  4475  6977 10264
GOERMENT EQUITY:
Paid-in Capital              150   175   195   195   195   195   500            500   500   500   500   500   500   500
Retainad Earnings              5    17    30    36    47    60    25            -49   -37   -25   -15    -4    21    89
T.OTAL EWIITY                155  192  225  231  242  255  525                  451   463   475   465   496   521   569
TOTAL LIABILITIES/EQUITY    4.19   682  2039  4024  6623  69M   3417           2360  2275  2558  3353  4971  7499 10853
21-Apr-U



- 118 
ANNEX llB
Page 6
TABLE S                              NATIONAL NONE  MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION              FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
TABLE 5~~~~.................... .............................................................................
(Structural Analyses in Percentages)
BALANCE SHEET                               H I S T O R I C A L                                         P R O J E C T E D
A S S E T S                      1980  1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1966                 1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
...........                     ............. ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ....   .    . ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... .... ......... ............ ............ .. ...
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash                                0      2      18     14      8       1    24              4       7      6       5      4      2      1
Short Ter  Inwstments               0      0     32       8      6      2       5            13       5      4      3       2      1      1
Accounts Receivabte (net)          26      7       5      6      7       9     25            32      29     23      16     10      6      4
Inventories                         0      0      0       0      0      0       0             0       0      0      0       0      0      0
,...... ............ ............ .....  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ....  ....
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               26      9     54      28     22     11      53            49     41      33     23      15      9      7
INVESTMENTS:
Nortgage Contracts                 52     50   43        69     75     79                    49      57     64     75      84    90    93
Securities MHS                      0      0       0      0      0       0      1             0       0      0       0      0      0      0
Other imestsents                   19    34        0      0      0       0      0            19      19     19     19      19     19     19
,...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ....         .    . ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ....  ... . ... ... ........ .......
TOTAL INVSTENTS                    71     84             69    75      79      45            49      57     64     75    84    90    93
PROPERTY AND EQUIPNENT:
Land, lprovements, Equipm           0      1       0      0      0      0       0             0       0      1      1       1      0      0
* Prov'n for Depreciatton           0      0       0      0      0      0       0             0       0      0      0       0      0      0
---    ------         --     ------.--                ...... ....  .....  ...... ....  ....  ....
WRITTEN DOWN VALUE P a E            0       0      0      0      0       0      0             0       0      0      0       0      0      0
OTHER ASSETS:
Deferrsd Charges                    1       1      2      2      3       9      2             2       2      1              1      0      0
Niscel lanous                       3      5       0      1      1       1      0              1      1      1      1       0      0      0
....  ..... ....  ...... ....  ..... ....                 ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ........ ............ ............ ..
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS                  3      6       2      3      3      9       2             2       2      2       1      1      1      0
...... ........ ... ^...... ... ..........  ......  ....  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....  ......  ....
TOTAL ASSETS                      100    100   100   100   100   100   100                  100    100    100    100    100   100   100
21-Apr-88



- 119 -
AhEI1I
Page 7
TABLE 5                                 NATIONAL HONE MORTGAGE FINNCE CORPORATIN   -  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
................................ ....................................................
(Struct.ural nsalyses in Percentages)
BALANCE SHEET                                  HISTORICAL                                                       P R 0 J E C T E D
.. ...................... ..............................................................  .........................................
L I A 8 I L I Y I E S              1980   1981   1982   1983   1964   1985   1986                1967   1968   19        1990   1991   1992  199
.....................              ....    ...... ....   ...... ....   ...... ....               ...... ....   ...... ....   ...... ....   ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
AccountsPaYable                        0       0       0      0       0       0       1               1      1       1       1       1       0      0
Accrued Expenses                       7       6      5       4      26      12     42              25      25      21      16      10       7      5
....   ...... ....   ...... ....   ...... ....                ...... ....    ...... ....    ...... ....   ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
Total Currnt Lfablftfes                7      6       5       5      29      12     43              26      25      22      17     11       7       5
LONG-TERN LIABILITIES:
Notes Payable                        20        6      2       0       0       4      9               0       0       0       0       0      0       0
Bonds Payable                        36      38    44        40      19      22     22              47      40      33      23     15        6     12
Tt HDMF                                0   18   37   U               47   57    0                    0    0    0    0    0    0    0
Trust NHS                              0       2       1      1       0       1      3               4       5       4       3       2       1      1
Loans                                  0       0      0       0       0       0       0              0       6      19     41      61      76      76
.... ----      .. ----   ----  .. ----   ----  . ----         ...... ....       ...... ....     ...... ....    ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
Totat Lono Term  Labfltty            56      66      83      87      67     83      34              51      51      56     67      76      85      89
OTHER LIABILITIES:
Guarantee Deposlts                     0       0       1      2       1       1       7              3       3       2       2       1      0       0
MIsce(laneous                          0       0       0      0       0       0       1               1      0       0       0       0      0       0
....   ...... .... .... ....   ...... ....    ....      .     . ....   ...... ....   ...... ....   ...... .... .. ... ...    ....
Total Other Liablltites                0       0       1      2       1       1      a               4       4       3       2       1      1       0
. ...  .......... .....   ....   ......   ....   ......   ....   ....  . .....   ....    ...   ....   . .....   ....   ......   ....
Totat Liabititles                    63   72   89   94   96  96    85                               81   80   81   86  90   93  95
GOVEWRNENT EUJITY:
Paid-ln Capital                      36      26      10       5       3       3     15              21      22      20      15     10       7       5
Retained EarnIngs                      1       2       1      1       1       1       1             -2      -2      -1       0      0       0       1
. ...   ....   ... ..  . .. .   ....   ...... . ....       ....... ....   ...... ....   ....   ...... .... ........ 
TOTAL EQUITY                         37   26   11    6    4    4  15                                19   20   19   14   10    7    5
.... ---            ---     ---     ----   ----.. ----  .     .... ..... ..... ..... .. . ....   ....   ......   ....   ......   ....   ....
TOTAL LIABILITIES/EQUITY            100    100    100    100    100    100    100                  100    100    100    100    100    100    100
21-Apr-88



120-
ANNEX 11B
Page 8
TABLES 4                       ATIONAL NONE NORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORE  ON  - FINANCIAL PERFOURANCE
...................................................  ..................................
BALANCE SHEET RAT6OS                         (AmoLmts In Pesos  illion at Current Prices)
1980  1981  1962  1963  1964  1905  1966       1987  1988  1969 1990  1991  1992  1993
....     ..... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ........ ... ........ ... .............
CURRENT RATIO:
Current Assets             108   63  1103  1119  1424   m    1824         1150  929  8S5   m    757  698  707
Current Liabilities         28   40   96   188 1891  864  1467             602  S80  568  S57   548  537  536
R A T I 0 : 3.9  1.6  11.5  6.0  0.8  0.9  1.2              1.9  1.6  1.5  1.4  i.4  1.3  1.3
333333  a33  3333= 3*              us33    e  =  _  
QUICK (ASSET TEST) RATIO:
Current Assets             108   63  1103  1119 1424   m    1824          1150  929  855   778  757  698  707
Les  Inventories             0 0         0     1    2    2       1           1    2    4    6    9    11   16
,.......,  ...... ........... ..... ....   ...... ....   ...... .. ..    ,  .....  ....   .....  ....   ...... ....   ...... ....
Liquid Assets              108   63  1103  1118  1422  771  1823          1149  927  851   772  748  68?  691
Current Liabilities         28   40   96   188 1891  864  1467             602  580  568  557  548  537  536
R A T I 0 : 3.9  1.6  11.5  5.9  0.8  0.9   1.2             1.9  1.6  1.5  1.4  1.4  1.3  1.3
_3      33                m 3    3    3   3  3    3 
LONG-TERM DEBT TO CAPITALIZATION:
Lon-term Debt              236  450  1702 3515 4406 57M   1165            1215  1151  1443  2247 3869 6395 9685
Long-term Debt + Equity    391  642  1927 3746 4648 6027  1690            1666  1613  1917 2732 4366 6916 10274
R A T I 0 : 0.6  0.7  0.9  0.9  0.9  1.0  0.7               0.7  0.7  0.8  0.8   0.9  0.9  0.9
LONG-TERN DEBT TO EQUITY:
Lon-term Debt              236  450  1702 3515 4406 57M   1165            1215  11S1  1443  2247 3869 6395 9685
Equity                     15S  192  225  231  242  25S  S25               451  463  475  485  496  521    9
R A T I 0 : 1.5  2.3  7.6  15.2  18.2 22.6  2.2             2.7  2.5  3.0  4.6  7.8  12.3 16.4
_                _       m   _             =   3333                  333333333333
DEBT TO EQUITY:
Total NDbt                 264  490  1814 3793 6381  6698 2892            1908 1812 2083 2868 4475 6977 10264
Equity                     155  192  225  231  24   2555  25               451  463  475  485  496 521  589
R A T I 0:  1.7  2.6  8.1  16.4  26.4  26.3  5.5            4.2  3.9  4.4   5.9  9.0  13.4  17.4
EQUITY:
Equity                     155  192  225  231  242  255 525               451  463  475  485  496  521  589
Tofta Assets               419  682 2039 4024 6623 6953 3417              2360 2275  2558 3353 4971  7499 10853
* A T I 0: 0.4  0.3  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2                0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
_        3 333         no3     = _       =     3 _               =3  333_  333   =3    3 _
DEOT RATIO:
Total Liabfitties          264  490  1814 3793 6381  6698  2892           1908  1812 2083  2868 4475 6977 10264
Total Assets               419  682 2039 4024 6623 6953 3417              2360 2275  2558 3353 4971  7499 10853
R A T I 0 : 0.6  0.7  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0  0.8               0.8  0.8  0.6  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9
21-Apr-88



- 121 -
Page 9
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
MMKF CH FLOW STkTMIENT
(P mliton in currant Prfes)
TAJ! 7         CAS FLOW STATENEOT                       P R O JiE C T E D
...................         ....................................... ............. ......................... ........
RECEIPTS                      1967  1968  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
...............               .........   ..... ... ....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ........ ..... ..... .....
ncme from operatfs:
NCR Cottection                181   311   336  460   692  1068  1566
Otherlnccme                     1     2     S    11    20    32   42
.......     ... .... ....     ..... ....     ..... .... .. ..... ..
$PA total                     182   313   343   471   713  1100  1610
-operat1ng Costs              41    41    43    49    60    79  100
-Income Tax                     4     9     9     8     9    16   39
.......  ....  ..... ....  ....  ... ... .... .. ..... ..
Net from operattoas           137   263   291   414   643  1005  1472
Mu Sourcing:
Bonds                        -250  -200   -50   -75   -39  -150   750
Notes                        -m       0     0     0     0     0     0
Trusts                          0     0     0     0     0    0      0
Loon I                          0    42   105   255   477   754    0
Loon 2                          8   101   254   671  1230  2088 2802
Oovrunt Subsidy                 0     0     0     0     0     0    0
Govrnsuent Equity               0     0     0     0     0     0     0
..... ....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ........ ..... .....
TOTAL RECEIPTS                -400   206   600  1265  2361  3697 5024
PAYNENTS
...............
Debt Servicfng:
Bonds                         287   14S   104    9S    87   80   96
Notes                           0     0     0     0     0     0    0
Trusts                          0     0     0     0     0     0     0
Loon I                          0     2     9    25    S8   113  161
Loon 2                          1    12    39   110   246   468  764
Investments:
Takeouts Nortgages           *298   167  420  1017  1900 3004 3904
Goernvmnt Scuritfie             0  -170     0     0     0     0     0
Current Lfab. Reductfonr       313    -2   -1  -10    -3   13    3
TOTAL PAYMTS                   303   153   572  1237  22J8  3678 4928
CHE IN CASH AT BANK           -702    52    28    29    72    19   95
21-Apr-88



- 122 -
ANNiEX llD
Page 10
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NHMFC KEY ASSUMPTIONS
1968  1989  1990  1991  1992        Tr.AL
1. TAKEOUTS at the following levels:                                         P an  P un  Pm Po   n   Pumn
(A) United Lending Program - ewbers                 51   130   488   988  1758          3415
(C) United Lending Program - Non-membere             1?    43   163   329   586         1138
(C) Natonal Housing Authority- Ongoing Program   83   192   250   328   176             1029
(C) National Housing Authority - few Program         16    55   116   25S   484          926
167   420  101?  1900  3004         6508
2. FUNDING from the following sources:
(A) GSIS/SSS/HDMF                                   101   254   671  1280  2088         4393
(B) IBRD                                            42   105   255   477   754          1634
CC) NHNFC Intermnlly generated funds                25    61    91   144   162           482
....    .....  ....   ..... .......  .......... ..
167   420  1017  1900  3004         6508
3. RETIREMENTS of Bonds at the following rates:                               200    50    75    39   1S0          514
198  1989  1990  1991  1992          AVER
4. COLLECTION EFFICIENCIES as follows:                                         X     X     X      X     2           X
CA) nCR Folio I (Current portion)                 90.0  95.0  95.0  95.0  95.0          95.0
C8) NCR Folio 2 (ULP 1)                                  85.0  87.5  90.0  92.5         95.0
(C) NCR Folio 3 (NHA)                                    85.0  87.5  90.0  92.5         95.0
'D) NCR Folio 4 (ULP 2)                                  85.0  87.5  90.0  92.5         95.0
5. INCONE YIELDS and RATES as follows:
(A) Average Yield on Nortgages                                                          13.0
(B) On Short Term Investments                                                            4.8
(C) Comitment Fees                                                                       1.0
(D) Insurance Commissions                                                                0.2
6. EXPENDITURE RATES and TAXATION as follows:
(A) Interest on UNP Certificates (average)                                              11.0
(8) Interest on B Certificetes (average)                                                 9.0
(C) Interest 'n GSSISSSS/IDAF (average)                                                  9.4
(D) Interest on tBiD Loan                                                                9.0
(E) Orgirntion Fees                                                                      2.0
(F) Provision for Doubtful Debts                                                         5.0
(B) Income Tax Rate                                                                     35.0
7. OTHER ASSUNPTIONS:
(A) NHNFC will roll-over oeturing 8DPC  ard BCs wmen due at Interest rates of 10 2 and 9  , respectively.
(B) NHNFC will be able to collect on the overdue accounts of P 730 mn, at the rate of about P 100 mn p.e.
CC) NHNFC wilt not receive any further infusion of Equity capital or Stbsidies from the Government.
21-Apr-88



- 123 -                           aMEg 1L
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTlROITY
Backsround
1.          The National Housing Authority (NHA) is a public corporation
established in mid-1975 by amalgamating six public housing agencies. Under
its charter, NHA was mandated to (a) provide and maintain low-cost housing
for the urban poor, (b) undertake housing and land development and
resettlement, and (c) promote private enterprise participation in the housing
sector. In practice, however, it is involved in diverse programs and services
including high-cost completed units intended to cross-subsidize shelter for
the lowest-income groups; construction of high-cost units in joint venture
with private builders, rental housing operations; provision of small business
and workshop construction loans; and special construction projects for
Government, in addition to its primary functions of slum upgrading, squatter
resettlement, development oi serviced sites, and the production of commercial
and industrial (CI) properties. The Authority provides mortgage financing for
all the above, and services its own portfolio, thus functioning as a non-
depository financial institution.
Organization. Nanagement and Staffing
2.         The NHA is assigned to the Office of the President and operates
under a Board the composition of which is presented in Annex 13. Although the
new Board is operational, Congressional approval must be obtained for its
confirmation. The Authority's Chief Executive Officer, the General Manager,
is appointed by the President, and confirmed by Congress.
3.        The NHA's organizational structure reflects its diverse functions
and "end-product" focus. Eight operational groups report directly to the
General Manager (see Chart 40053), who is aided by an Assistant General
Manager. Besides its headquarters in Manila, the Authority has small regional
offices In Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro, Bacalod and Iloilo. Almost 80% of the
Authority's 2,400 staff members are deployed on operational work, with 18% in
central administration and 5% in central technical units. NHA project
managers have high levels of responsibility and accountability for activities
on their sites, and are generally experienced and competent.   Staff is
generally competent and well motivated, partly a result of careful selection
and a good junior professional staff training program. Turnover is rodest in
relation to other public corporations. However, partly in response to a
hostile external environment and partly as a result of management style, NHA
evolved a tightly controlled, centralized style of management with restricted
delegation. Project management often reports directly to the General Manager.
Several areas, particularly financial management and estates management, need
strengthening.



- 124 -                        ANEX 12
Page 2
,Xeratlomal Performance
4,       As summarised In Table XI-I, shelter output by NUA during 1976-86
totaled about 148,000 units. Together with the 41,000 units Inherited from
its predecessors, the Authority bas handled 189,000 accounts. From NUA's
beginnings in 1975, annual output rose to a peak of about 26,000 units In
1981, declining thereafter as economic conditlons worsened.  Productlon is
heavily concentrated In Manila, though regional programs began to expand in
the early 1980s. Of NHA's total production, resettlement dominated with over
half of all units, followed by slum upgrading (29%), serviced sites (14%) and
a few completed, higher-cost units (5%). The NA manages 3,500 rental units
in 12 estates.
Table XII-I
NHA SHELTER PRODUCTXON 1976-1986
1976    1977    1978    1979    1900   1901    1982    193    1981    198   1906   TOTAL
Serviced Sits  0  0  0   0  121   5,061   1,706   3,60?   3,851   5,57?  532  20,451
Ih  ul Prod  0X    O0  OX  OX  1X    19X    9s    162    212    282    102    1:X
RuettUemnt  2,665   1,357   4.185   6,781   1,450  11,961   7,721  11,910   8,888   9,651   3,963  76,562
X &nml Prod  982    832  612  472  492  45  412  531  Sit    482  762  522
SlipwUpgradIng  60    500   1,867   6,868   3,523   7,801   8,354   5,694   3,213   4,414  712  43,006
IfinnulProd  2X  92    272  482    382    29X    la  252  202    222  14X    29
C*pleted Units  0    421  831  638   1,059   1,810  949  1,472  379    371  0   7,330
I  nnui Prod  0I  8X  12S  i2  122  72  S2  62  22  22  OX  5X
TOTIL PlOD    2,725   5,278   6,883  14,287   9,153  26,633  18,730  22,713  16,334  20,013   5,207 147,956
2 RM1 6rth  MR  912  302    108    -362    1912    -302  212    -282  232    -741
IHRITtO INU W IlOIY..     ..............  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .   . . .. . .41,011D
mmt. .U.IIS.. . ,............. ,, 8..... .188956
S.        Capital investments made by NRA during 1975-84 totaled some P3.1
billion, about a third of which went to slum upgrading, 42% to resettlement
and serviced sites, 14% to completed units, 6% to joint ventures, 5% for CZ
properties and 0.04 % for small business loans, as shown In Table XII-II.
6.       Though impressive in absolute terms, NUA's output remains marginal
in relation to needs. The Authority's contribution to new housing stock for
lower-income groups was negligible over this period, comprising at best a few
thousand units since nearly all the now serviced sites it provided were
utilized for resettlement. Of the 257,000 dwellings identified in 1978 as
needing upgrading in Metro Manila alone, NRA has service,. only about 43,000
or 17%. At this pace, four decades would be required to complete the current
backlog. NRA recognizes that the pace of upgrading will have to be
accelerated and will begin to address this problem by carrying out a resurvey
of irnformal settlements in major urban areas, starting in Nanila under the
proposed project to determine the current backlog. More rapid approaches to
upgrading will also be explored, although wide popularity of title
acquisition as part of the upgrading process will obstruct the use of
approaches not involving land acquisition.



-125 -                                          A
Page 3
PHILIPPINES
BOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table XUI - xi
HRA'S CAPITAL INVSTMEMNTS
(in  iZLtion n)
Residential Units-
Uervlced
Sites &                                                              Foretqn-Assigted   SAainst
Slum Up-  Resettle- Economic   Joint   Commerclal/ Livelihood                        Project           Total
grading   moot        Rousing Venture  Industrial  (SOL, U      )       Total   Investment Level   Investment
975
rount             16.827      17.189      5.707        0           0            0          58.723         15.827          61.01
2                  61.01      29*27       9.72         -           -            -                           -               -
976
*Twunt            77.141      16.829      2.535         0           0            0         06.505         76.375           74.14
X                  79.93       17.44       2.63        -           -            -            --                             -
'77
1ou.,nt          27.305     40.766    24.666          1)          0        0.010          92.767         27.180          29.30
*                  29.43      43.94      26.59         -           -         0.03            -              -               -
978
XIount            24.870      21.440    72.236    2.041            0        0.068         120.655         19.049           15.79
2                  20.61       17.77     59.89      1.69           -         0.06            -              -               -
979
X-munt            59.524      17.444    39.nn6    3.200            0        0.027         119.241         40.689          34.11
2                   49.9       14.62     32.70      2.76           -         0.02            -              -               -
980
iowunt           24l.896      29.818    2S.446   42.882            0        0.090         340.132        185.noo          54.39
2                  71.12        8.77      7.48    12.61            -         0.03            -              -               -
P8t
ount             185.34    288.372    43.099   46.228              0        t.ll4         564.t47        361.000          64.14
2                  32.82       51.12       7.64     8.19           -         0.23            -              -               -
982
Aount            133.613    290.132    75.440   57.871             0        3.565         S60.621        276.W00          49.23
S                  23.85       51.79      13.47    10.33           -         0.64            -              -               -
983
iunt             151.713    407.890   111.047   33.721        16.179        5.354         725.904        328.000          45.19
S                  20.9o       56.19      15.30     4.65        2.23         0.74            -              -               -
984
dEount            93.275    169.541    16.835          0    133.490         1.368         414.509        238.884          57.63
2                  22.50       40.90      4.06         -       12.20         0.33            -              -               -
Total         1.030.298  1.299.421   416.017  186.033    149.669          11.816      3.092.400/a
Total No. Units
Produeed /c   37.880      77.207      7.559 /b                                                                        122.736
Average cost    27.200       16.810    79.650 /b                                                                         23.900 /a
-Shelter portion only P 2.931 m expenditure which resulted in 122.736 units.  Average a P 21.900.
b Total for both Economic Rousing and Joint Venture.
F Prom 1975-1984.



- 126 -ANNF  12
Page 4
7.       The sale price of units built by NHA during 1975-85 averaged about
P11,800, affordable to roughly 85% of the urban population.  Affordability
was achieved, however, by subsidizing half of the real cost of production.
Most infrastructure costs were not directly charged to buyers, but instead
were to be covered by budgetary transfers from other agencies, chiefly
Manila's Metropolitan Water and Sewerage System (MWSS) and the Ministry of
Public Works and Housing (MPWH). These transfers largely have not occurred.
NHA's average unit costs and sale prices are shown in Table XII-I11.
Table XII-III
UNIT COSTS AND SALE PRICES
Type Unit          Est Production    No. of      Average Sale  Trice as %
Cost          Units        Price         of Cost
Uparading:            27.200 avg    37.880         1.885          40%
Tondo                 NA           12,676         3,300
ZIP                   NA           13,757        16,200
Rural/Regional        NA           11,447        12,900
S/S & Resettlement    16.810 av      77297         6.384
Metro Manila SS       NA           11,745        17,300
Regional Cities SS    NA            2,604        10,000
Resettlement          NA           62,948         4,200
Completed Units       79.650          7.559        71.700         90i
Avera&e          23.900        122,73i        11.800         49%
8.      The NHA's involvement in projects has also been leungthy, suppressing
volume delivery. This is primarily due to protracted land acquisition, slow
sales, and to lengthy delays in turning over completed infrastructure to the
responsible municipalities and ministries for maintenance. For the most part,
NUA has been unable to extract itself from Infrastructure maintenance and
operating responsibilities which have become burdensome given the size and
physical dispersion of its portfolio. These duties divert an increasing
proportion of the Authority's attention from its priority tasks.
Financial Performance
9.         NHA's financial performance has significantly lagged its physical
performance, suffering from a combination of ineffective or inappropriate
policies, some of which have been mandated by Government, and weaknesses in
it's own financial management. Until the early 1980's, NUA functioned in most
respects like a Government department, relying on budgetary infusions to
supplement external borrowings and devoting only marginal efforts to
improving internal cash generation. Enforcement of pricing and other
financial policies was weak. The Authority's unwritten financial objective
was to realize a marginal profit in nominal terms. The financial statements
show that this has been achieved over the last seven years, with a return on
equity averaging 0.25%.  However, inflation over this period averaged 20%
annually, leaving NHA with only about 29% of its original 1979 capital in
real terms. The Authority's consequent Lzadual decapitalization is a fate



- 127 -                         MU_1
Page 5
shared by many public corporations in the Philippines.   Direct government
budgetary infusions have been necessary to fund operations.  During 1976-
1985, Government support to NHA totals some P2.7 billion while peso loans
sourced mainly from the World Bank and KFW contributed an additional P1.9
billion.
10.      Asset Structure.  The NHA's financial statements (including income
statements and balance sheets) for 1980-1993 are shown in Annex 14. As of
December 31, 1985, NHA's balance sheet as summarized in Table XII-IV showed
about 65% of total assets (P2.7 billion or US$132 million) in works in
progress (project development) and properties held for sale or transfer to
other government agencies. Mortgt.ge contract receivables, completed rental
properties and loans to municipalities -- representing the main thrust of
NHA's operations -- comprised only P691 (US$34) million or a modest 17% of
total assets.   The amount in productive investments is strikingly low
folloving a decade of operations. The remainder was distributed among current
assets (13%), miscellaneous investments (4%) and fixed assets (1%). However,
inventory figures for 1985 showed 75% of all units completed had been sold.
Thus a substantially larger proportion of NHA's assets should have appeared
in contract receivables. This discrepancy, which was noted by the Commission
on Audit (COA) in its 1985 audit of NHA's accounts, was partially addressed
in 1986, when P778 million of works in progress was shifted into completed
rental properties, mortgage contract receivables and works held for transfer,
reducing works in progress to P799 million. Further adjustments are proposed
in 1987. The problem of the overstated works in progress account arose in
part,   because of the lack of iUttegration among the Authority's various
operational and financlal activities (see para. 15).
Table XlI-IV
NA CONPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS
December 31, 1985 and December 31, 1986
AS                                    L W TAITX
Mo-t 2 AWmt 2                       Awm= 2  AmW2t I
ztmnt A  ........................3 0 132  656 142 Ormut LAnblIitles ............  250 6X  407 91
Nn-podtuwstJs .............  2,68    652  2,635  572  Lwri T1- TAblIities Total ....  1,279  312   1,465  322
-     In Prop.11 ......... 1,52 3sx      (WS and VW loan., 'am
- Pn e ties hold for S&.alsmfr...  1,U1 272 1,835 402  fran Treasucy for debt w)
Pa&wtive 1nwsmts (ruial mita,           Otb0 Id bil ities (deferd
Liatl'mt antr rsvbl, 1X and             Prfit).....................  89   22  195   4X
MbL bimirAw bm).............    691  172    969  212  Total  Ilities:  1,618  S9X   2,067   452
Otber aaaets/Iimes ..............  195 52  331 72 Ity .2,529 61X 2,576 552
WAsse t  ..........................AS  43  12  52  12
1UAL   4,147  1002   4,643  1002      L    4,147  1OO2    4,643  1002
11.      NHA's borrowings were relatively low for a public corporation, with
government equity and retained earnings representing 55% of total funds
employed, reflecting a gradual de^line from 81% in 1980. This level of debt
was comparatively modest for a housing finance institution, with a total debt
to equity ratio in 1986 of only 0.80.  During this period, however, NHA,s



- 128 -                           ANNEX 12
Page 6
long-term liabilities -- primarily World Bank loans on-lent by Government --
almost doubled from only P95 (US$4.7) million in 1980 to P1,465 (US$72)
million at end-1986. As a proportion of total liabilities, long-term debt
rose from 6% in 1980 to 32% in 1986. At the same time,   NHA was able to
obtain new infusions of capital which, with its expanded borrowings, caused
total assets to grow by about 25% per annum in nominal terms from P1.5
billion (US$74 million) in 1980 to P4.6 billion (US$228 million) in 1986. In
real terms, however, as noted above, NRA has steadily decapitalized.
12.       NHA's liquidity has declined from an initially high level as works
in progress claimed an increasing proportion of assets. Current assets
declined from 24% of total assets in 1980 to 14% in 1986. At the same time,
the current ratio has steadily declined, from nearly 6 in the late 1970's to
1.6 in 1986, but generally remained within a satisfactory range.
13.       Cost Recovery. Cost recovery has been the weakest aspect of NHA's
performance. Though internal cash generation was sufficient to cover NHA's
debt service obligations during 1980-84, this ratio dropped precipitously to
about 30% in 1985 when principal repayments on World Bank borrowings came
due, and debt service obligations increased five-fold from P 27 million to
P142 million. There was no improvement in 1986 as a result of the elections
and subsequent change of Government.
14.       A combination of essentially three factors were responsible for
NHA's poor cost recovery performance:  ineffective pricing, poor sales
performance, and low collection rates.
(a) Pricing: Prior to 1985, NH;'s pricing policy was based on three key
principles: (1) significant cross subsidies involving losses incurred
on below-market pricing of residential units for the low-income
population to be offset from anticipated profits generated from the
sale of commercial and industrial (CI) properties at market prices, (2)
repayment by the relevant municipalities and ministries of
infrastructure costs incurred by NRA, and (3) non-recovery of overheads
and interest during construction. The Authority was also not allowed by
COA to set aside provisions for loan losses. However, with high
inflation and a deteriorating economy, demand for CI units fell,
forcing prices down and severely limiting the profits intended for
cross subsidies. This, plus the inability to recover infrastructure
costs from other agencies, forced NRA to revise it pricing policies and
lending terms in mid-1985.
First, cross subsidies from commercial/industrial properties were
eliminated and the prices of all residential units were set to reflect
the real cost of development and construction.   A wide array of
individually small but cumulatively significant costs previously
omitted from cost recovery were identified for inclusion in future
prices. Administration costs were to be recovered, along with interim
interest during construction.   A markup designed to preserve NHA's
capital in real terms was added. The objective was to charge at least a
break-even price for all units. Thus, cross-subsidies were dropped.
Differential pricing continues, with the more attractively located
residential units and all CI properties sold at market prices. Second,



- 129 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 7
land acquisition is to be completed prior to start-up of civil works,
allowing accurate land pricing and prompt sale upon completion.
Land costs had previously been set too low, since they were often not
settled until long after sales were finalized due to protracted court
procedures for expropriation.  The change in land pricing means that
prices closer to market will have to be paid to expedite land
acquisition. It may also slow the pace of construction while a "land
bank" is acquired. Third, the cost of all infrastructure not explicitly
covered under a contract with another agency is to be included in the
sale price, thus eliminating the need for interagency transfers and
speeding the pace of development by freeing NBA from lengthy
negotiations with these agencies. This policy parallels that of private
developers, but could increase lot costs by as much as 50%. Fourth, NHA
credit policies were changed. Dovnpayments were introduced of 10% for
serviced sites, and S% for upgraded units, and CI units were to be sold
for cash rather than credit. Most fundamentally, NHA acknowledged that
in future, the Institutions purchasing the mortgage will determine
credit terms.
The net effect of the changes in pricing policy was a sizable increase
in unit sale prices.   The resulting prices however, are still
affordable to about 85% of the urban population. To check this
important assumption, a market test was conducted in January, 1985 in a
770 lot site included in the Bank-assisted Pasig Karangalan Village
Project (Ln. 1821-PH), which resulted in over 20,000 applicants of whom
17,000 were financially qualified. Effective demand was therefore over
20:1. The NBA speculates that the price could have been doubled and
still would have met with strong demand, a fact which would indicate
ample latitude for private sector participation in lower market
segments.
Unfortunately, the effect of the new policies will take time to be felt
in terms of increased cash generation. Currently a major proportion of
NHA's assets is tied up in unsold properties (many are occupied but
unsigned) governed by the old pricing policy. Two or three years will
be required before new developments translate into sales. Moreover,
several of the sites recently completed have been exempted from the new
policy. Such political intrusions into NHA's financial decision-making
have recurred periodically. Thus the Authority's will to rigorously
implement improved policies remains the crucial and final test of
whether it can become a financially viable entity.
(b) Sales Performance: Poor sales have also affected NBA's cash inflows.
Much of this problem has been in the regional cities and in CI
properties, only 37% of which have been sold.  CI sales in regional
cities were particularly depressed with only 4% sold two years after
completion. NHA plans a renewed effort during 1988 to market existing
CI units. Meanwhile development of new CI properties, particularly in
regional cities, has been deferred. The Authority is aware of the
problem and is conducting an analysis of its causes, which is expected
to be completed by mid-1988. Table XII-V summarizes NHA's inventory
position as of Narch 1987.



- 130 -                          hANEX- 12
Page 8
Table XII-V
NRA INVENTORY. MARCH 31. 1987
Number of Units
Sales/Alloc        Collections
Allo-   Not    Under Coll      No
Completed  cated Alloc.  or Fully Pd  Collection
Residential Progerties
WB assisted           55,422   41,258   14,164    34,682       20,740
% of Completed:    100%      74%      26%        63%         37%
NMA in-house         138,223  117,461   20,762   104,755       33,468
% of Completed:    100%      85%      15%        76%         24%
Total        193,645  158,719   34,926   139,437       54,208
% of Completed 3/87:    100%      82%       18%       72%         28%
% of Completed 1/86:              75%       25%       63%         37%
Commercial/Industrial
WB assisted (12 m)     1.047    0.410    0.637      0.236       0.811
% of Completed:    100%      39%      61%        22%         78%
NRA in-house (K2 m)    0.668    0.223    0.445      0.169       0.499
% of Completed:    100%      33%      67%        25%         75%
Total (M2 m)   1.715    0.633    1.082     0.405        1.310
% of Completed 3/87:    100%      37%       63%       24%         76%
- of Completed 1/86:              38%       62%       20%         80%
(c) Cgollections  Performance:  Poor collections  are  in part  due  to
difficulties in initiating regular payment habits among squatter
populations who have no previous payment history and who are accustomed
to free occupancy, in part to the mixed nature of NRA's portfolio,
which includes resettlement functions, and in part to NHA's political
sensitivity which erodes its will to enforce sanctions against non
payment. In addition, until 1983 when the financial and economic crisis
curtailed the availability of government investment funds, NRA was able
to rely on government budgetary inflows and peso loans sourced
externally to continue its mainstream construction activities and had
little real need to enforce collections.   Since that time, NHA has
attempted to increase its collection effort, but with mixed results.
Collections in World Bank-assisted sites were reported at 85% of
current amounts due in 1985, a significant improvement over the 1984
level of 67%. Average receivables dropped to 4.2 from 6.8 months due to
a major loan restructuring effort.  Improvement was achieved through
tightened collection administration, since NRA rarely enforces
sanctions on residential properties and had repossessed only about 60
units as of end-1985 and resold only 3. The collections rate on the
overall portfolio was only 71%, with arrears averaging 6.4 months.



- 131 -                           Page 9
Loans for small businesses, home materials, municipalities   and
resettlement had the highest arrearage levels. Resettlement accounts,
which represent half of all units built by NRA and 27% of total
receivables, were a particular problem, with a repayment rate of only
46% in 1985 and average arrears of about 12 months.   Resettlement
mortgages have proven incollectible since no real sanctions can be
enforced in the event of default. In 1986 changes were introduced to
recognize the problems inherent in resettlement. Collection on small
business loans, representing only about 6% of NRA's collection
portfolio, totaled only 38% of current amounts due in 1986 and 4%
including arrears, with average arrearages of over 100 months. Home
material loans, representing another 6% of receivables, returned only
36% and arrearages averaged 24 months. Both the small business and
home materials loans are uncollateralized. Net collections on loans to
regional cities, another problem portfolio, were only 67%. Despite its
need for revenue, NRA failed to repossess units in default or, for
municipal loans, to deduct payments at source from Treasury. In 1986,
trends and performance reportedly improved with overall collections at
reported at 77% vs. 71% end-1985, due to reduction in amounts due from
resettlement areas. Total payments including advance payments dropped
below the  1975  level.   Table XII-VI  summarizes  NRA's  collection
performance from 1982-86.
Table XII-VI
NRA COLLECTION PERFORXANCE. 1982-1986
Amount (Pm)     Net Collections      Average
==--------------   aas   of Amount   No. of Months
Total      %      Due That Year     Receivables
Year     Amount   Incr    (Net of Arrears    at year-end
Collected (Decr)     & Advances)
WB Assisted: 1982      NA        NA             NA             NA
1983      NL        NA            NA              NA
1984     36.7       NA           67%             6.8
1985     83.9      129%          85%             4.2
1986     80.1       -5%          77%             7.1
NRA Overall: 1982     47.8       47%            NA             NA
1983     67.1       40%           NA              NA
1984    101.0       51%          74%             9.0
1985    158.1       57%          71%             6.4
1986    154.6       -2%          77%             7.9
The combined (cumulative) impact of the previous pricing policies, weak
sales performance and low collections on portfolio segments eroded
overall cost recovery to about 36% of NHA's expenditures on residential
site development, and 18% of CI properties as shown in Figure XII-VII.
The Authority's inability to service its debts is the direct result of
this combination of factors.



- 132 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 10
Pigure XII-VII
CONPOUNDED COST REcovERY
200
180
160
!  *N  L   N   -w-^-----------------         ----------   1
80 -_                                RESD84T-EXPECTED_____  7S%
140
20 
or
cOSm               PRCONG                SAS            COUECTIONS
15.           Accounting System/Audits: UAI's manually operated accounting
system has proven inadequate to keep pace with the inc.:easing growth and
diversity of its operations and does not provide information in a manner to
enable "profit center" analysis.   In 1984 and 1985, COA qualifiLed NR's
financial statements for inconsLstencies between its accounting and other
records. While NRA has partially computerized its operations, it still lacks
an internally-linked and integrated information system. Reports generated by
different departments frequently present significantly different figures.
The Authority has recently emrloyed consultants for the design, procuroment
and installation of a fully computerized accounting and collection system.
Phase I of this task will be completed by mid-1988 financed under Loan 1821-
PH. Implementation will require several more years.
16.     Administrativs Costs. NRA's administration costs as reflected in its
income statements have been 2% to 2.5% of total assets managed over the last
seven years. As a percent of operating assets (works in progress and loan
assets) administration costs have steadily declined as UHA's liquidity was
translated into operations from 4.8% in 1979 to an average 2.6% over the last
three years. However, these administration costs are managed by NRA and a
sizable proportion of administrative costs are not reflected in the income
statement, but are instead capitalized under works In progress for eventual
inclusion in the unit sale price of units. Since administrative overheads
were not actually charged into final sale prices under Urban I and II, it is
probable that major sums are being carried under works in construction which
are now uncollectible and should be wrLtten off. A study should be undertaken
of NRA's administrative overheads to determine the appropriate markup to
cover these costs.



- 133 -                           ANNEX 12
Page 11
17.       In summary, NHA's financial performance has been the weakest aspect
of its operations, and virtually threatens the Authority's survival as an
independent corporation. The Authority's initially quite liquid position has
been gradually translated into works in progress, but due to protracted
construction periods, inattention to marketing, weak accounting procedures
and time lags In information flows, and low collections levels due to non-
enforcement of sanctions, these works have not yet been translated into
sales, mortgage assets and income. It's mixed mandate including government's
resettlement functions is the cause of some of these problems. As a result,
NaU is unable to service its mounting debt, and increasingly relies on
government budgetary infusions and asset sales to meet its obligations. The
Authority's decapitalization is essentially due to its policy of "marginal,
nominal profit" which has made it dependent upon continued infusions of
government equity which cannot be relied upon in future. Financially, it is
in no position to sustain further borrowings. In an attempt to address these
problems and thus to enable the Authority to carry out its important role,
INRiA has developed a Statement of Policies   and an Action Plan for
Institutional Strengthening outlined in Annex 13. Other actions being taken
by NHA are discussed in the text of t.his report.



- 135 -                           ANNEK 13
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NHA POLICY STATEMKT
May, 1988
This Annex comprises (a) NRA's Board structure, (b) NHA's May 19, 1988
Letter of Clarification on aspects of its Policy Statement, (c) NRA's Policy
Statement approved by the Board on 19 February, 1988, and (d) the Authority's
Institutional Action Plan.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The National Housing Authority was created under Presidential Decree
757 on July 31, 1975 as modified under EO 90 of December 17, 1986. The
Corporation is governed by a Board of Directors which approves all major
activities and policies of NHA in accordance with the provisions established
by the GOP under PD757.  The Board is presently composed of the members
listed below with a "**".   Proposals have been approved by RUDCC for
revisions to the Board membership; new members are also listed below and
presently act  in an advisory  capacity.    Congressional  ratification  is
required before the new Board is formally appointed.
**  #1... BUDCC Chairman (Chairman of the Board)
#2.. .NUFC Representative (President of NHUPC)
**  #3...NHA General Manager
**    ... NEDA (Undersecretary)
i*  #5... DOF (Undersecretary)
#6... DBN (Undersecretary)
**  #7...DPVH (Secretary)
#8... DOLG (Undersecretary)



136                            ANNEX 13
Page 2
, OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
may 19, 1988
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.V.
Washington D.C. 20433
United States of Amerlca
Gentlemen,
This letter is to clarLfy aspects of the NUH Policy Statement
approved by the NHA Board of Directors on February 19, 1988 which was
discussed ln Washington, D.C. in the course of Negotiations on the
World Bank assisted HousLig Sector Project.
Rs.Sjection 11-1 on Policy Formulatlon
The "housing polLcLes" referred to in this section are in
relatLon to shelter productLon in accordance with NBA's new mandate
under Executive Order 90, and do not cover financlal or other
policLes;
Re: Sectlon II-1 and III-2 on Income and Geograhic Distribution
Attachments 1 and 2 to this letter present NHA's present targets
with regard to the income and geographic dlstribution of units
developed by this Authority.   We anticipate these targets will be
revised annually.
Re: Section 11-4 on Assistance to Develogers/Others
The NHA is committed to limiting its role to assisting other
entities obtain development financing for low income housing project,
and will not engage ln direct lending to such entities. This should
not, however, be read to preclude joint ventures in which NRA elther
owns the land or develops the infrastructure.
Re: Sectlon III on Resettlement
It is NRA's intention to contrlbute significantly to development
of new houslng stock, as reflected in our five year investment plan ln
which over 70% of total output represents additions to stock and less
than 30% resettlement.
Re: Section VI-4 on Aver^ge Receivables
The Authority's goal is to reduce average receivables (now at
about 8 months) to 3 months within a period of 3 years.
Re: Section VI-$ on Provisions for Doubtful Accounts
The NHA shall make approprlate provisions for doubtful accounts
including mortgages and conditional contracts of sale. The level of
such provisions will be established through the study/technical



- 137 -                      ANNEX 13
Page 3
assistance provided under the proposed loan for assisting NRA
strengthen its internal accountlig and audit functions.   Thls
commitment is preiised upon COA's acceptance of the principle of NHA's
establishing provisionis for loans backed by real property collateral.
The NUA accepts the principle and will exert all efforts to convince
COA of the rationale behind these provisions.
Re: Section VI-9 on Financial Ratios
(a) Current ratio is defined as current assets/current liabilities
and will be set at 2.0; and
(b) debt to equity ratio of not more than 15:1;
Yours sincerely,
thorizet Xepresentalv
Mr. Teodoro Katigbak
Chairman of the Board



- 138 -                          AM  13
Page 4
ATTAC)UEUT I.
NHA INCOME DISTRIBUTION 2ARGETS
PEILIPPIN  NIDI   TERM DIELOPRT D&a
Percentile   sale Price   Percentage of   Percentage of
Affordable     of Unit      No. of Units    Investment
to:          (1987)
.- - -   - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - _- -
O    - 15th      NA             0%     ---       0%
15th - 30th  up to 45,000      42%  @35,000    32%
30th - 40th  45 to 55,000      29%   @5O,OOO   31%
40th - 50th  55 to 66,000      29%  @60,000   37%
over 50th        NA             0%     ---       0%



- 139 -                             ANNEX 13
Page 5
ATTACHMENT 2
NiL GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION TARGETS
FOR THE
PHILIPPINE NEDIUM TERM DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Region     % Total   Percentage of         Percentage of
Pop.      No. of Units          Investment
1   Ilocos          7.1%          4.2%                  3.8%
2   Cagayan         4.6%          1.7%                  1.6%
3   C. Luzon       10.3%          9.3%                 10.8%
4   S. Tagalog     13.1%         11.9%                 10.6%
5   Bicol           7.1%          3.9%                  1.8%
6-8  Visayas        22.5%         15.2%                 10.4%
9-12 Mindanao       22.8%         14.8%                 11.5%
13  NCR            12.8%         38.9%                 48.5%



- 140 -                           ANNU  13
Page 6
NUA POLICY STATEMENT
I. NRA MANDATE
The National Housing Authority, a public corporation wholly owned by the
Government of the Republic of the Philippines, is the government agency
tasked to evolve and implement the national program In accordance with the
medium term Philippine Development Plan (1987-1992) to meet the housing needs
of marginal and low income families principally in urban areas;
The NHA shall be the lead agency for the ihelter component of the urban land
reform program of Government, with authority to proclaim Areas for Priority
Development (APDs) or Urban Land Reform Zones (ULRZ);
The NHA is likewise responsible for development of "economic" housing for
low income earners whose housing need is not served by the private sector;
II. GENERAL POLICIES (AND ACTIVITIES)
1. Policy for Low Income. NUA shall formulate housing policies and
programs for the low and marginal income group; (see Letter of
clarification re applicability to production activities);
2.  Sole Producer?Developer Role.The NHA shall be the sole public agency
engaged in direct shelter production and shall function as a real
estate developer to acquire land, develop the same, and sell
principally to marginal and low income families;
3. Private Sector Joint Ventures. NHA shall encourage and promote joint
ventures with the formal and informal private sector, particularly
with the landowners of identified properties for development, and
adopt measures which shall attract their participation in sites and
services and slum improvement programs;
4. NRA shall facilitate and assist the local governments, NGOs, private
developers, and the communities in initiating and implementing low
income housing projects through the provision of design, management
and technical services, and if necessary, extend assistance to secure
short term development finance (see Letter of Clarification for
statement that NHA will not engage in direct lending to these
entities);
5. Sales. Lots shall be sold for cash or through credit under mortgages
originated by NHA. These and existing mortgages shall be sold to
appropriate financial entities.
6. Decentralization. The NHA shall, in the implementation of its national
housing program for marginal and low income families, decentralize its
operations to expand the coverage of the program to regional centers.
(See Section III-2 for geographic distribution targets);



- 141 -                           ANNE  13
Page 7
7. Annual Corporate Plan.   The NHA shall prepare a Corporate Plan
annually to assess the implementation of corporate policies and
objectives,  and  prescribe  a  program  of  production  with  the
corresponding requirements in terms of funds and cash, including such
amounts to be requested from the national government as trust funds or
subsidies.   The plan shall review and update existing policy
statements, outline a rolling 5 year program of capital investments,
and include financial projections.
III. PROGRAMS AND PROJECT DEmLVPHMNT
1. In the implementation of the Medium Term Philippine Development Plan
1987-1992, the NHA, by itself or in joint venture with the private
sector, shall undertake the following programs:
(a) Sites and Services Program.   The NHA shall purchase raw land,
develop and sell as residential subdivisions of which at least
70% of the lots shall be priced so that they can be afforded by
families whose incomes fall below the 50th percentile;
Income Distribution. In principle, the NEA shall target an even
distribution of lots to serve families between the 15th and 50th
percentiles. House construction for families above the 50th
percentile will not be undertaken. (See Attachment 1 of NHA's
Letter of Clarification for income distribution targets for the
NTDP.)
(b) Program for the Inmrovement of Slums and Other Depressed
vWammitiesK.  The NHA shall undertake by itself or assist the
community through self help in, the acquisition, development and
disposition of slum sites and other depressed communities which
are suitable for upgrading;
Alternative Arrangements. Lots shall be sold to the occupants, but
NHA shall offer alternative arrangements to those occupants who
cannot afford to purchase under installment terms;
APD Prioxit%. NRA shall concentrate on Areas for Priority
Development, but the willingness of the occupants to participate
financially in advance and to commit to a provisional price shall
be a prime determinant for site prioritization. Priority shall be
given to government-owned APDs where there is no funding
requirement for land acquisition. (See V-6 for majority commitment
of community);
Technical Assistance. Under the Community Self-Help Program NUA
will provide technical assistance to the communities. This
assistance will be funded through Government subsidy and will not
be directly recoverable from the beneficiaries;
(c) Relocation and Resettlement Proaram. The NUA shall undertake for
the government, the relocation and resettlement program as
necessary. In support of such program, the development of
resettlement sites shall be undertaken only when the agencies



- 142 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 8
implementing projects that call for the removal of squatters, or
the national government, release trust funds directly to NRA for
implementation. Future resettlement sltes shall be sought in more
viable locations closer to the urban core. NHA shall develop and
turn over these completed projects to the concerned local
government or agency (see Letter of Clarification for commitment
to development of new stock and limit on extent of resettlement);
(d) Community Socioeconomic   Development Program.    The NRA shall
evolve a program to improve the socioeconomic conditions of the
communities in its projects particularly those in the lowest 15th
percentile of the income structure, and shall coordinate the
implementation of such programs with the concerned agencies of the
government.   NHA will dispose its existing small business loans
portfolio and will cease further lending once Government
identifies a lead agency for the lending program.
2.  Geographic Distribution.   NHA shall adopt a program which allocates
available resources between Metro Manila and the regional cities in
proportion to actual demand. For this purpose, the NHA shall estimate
the actual demand in each region and allocate investments in
proportion to such demand. Such estimates of actual demand shall
periodically be updated through the systematic collection of relevant
national housing data on the needs of marginal and low income
families. (See Attachment 2 of Letter of Clarification for the
geographic distribution targets for the MTDP.);
3.  Infrastructure Provision. Social and physical infrastructure normally
implemented by other agencies shall be constructed by NHA only when
trust funds are released by government specifically for that purpose.
Where funds are not forthcoming, but such infrastructure is essential
to enable disposition of lots, any cost incurred by NHA shall be
considered as an. investment to be recovered directly from the
beneficiaries. NHA will turn over all completed infrastructure and
facilities including ownership of the land thereof to the concerned
agencies for maintenance and operation;
4.  Design Standards. Design standards shall be determined by the
affordable limits of the target beneficiaries.   Flexibility in the
provision of services will be maintained according to land costs and
beneficiary income levels;
5.  Procurement.   Civil works contracts shall be awarded through public
competitive bidding and implemented in accordance with the provisions
of P.D. 1594 as amended;
IV. LAND ASSEMBLY
1.  Title Before Construction.   The NHA shall evolve and implement a
program of land assembly which, among other things, shall ensure the
acquisition of land before the scheduled implementation of projects;
(4.) The physical development (civil works) of any project site shall not
be started until the title to the land has been transferred or



- 143 -                           ANNEX-13
Page 9
mortgaged to the NHA;
2. Expropriation. NHA shall acquire privately owned land through direct
purchase by negotiating with its owner. Expropriation shall be pursued
only when  such negotiations  have  failed.    For  slum  improvement
projects, such negotiations shall consider the limited market
potential of the land because of the presence of squatter families;
3. Site Selection. Site selection for new development will be based on
size, location, accessibility, and price. An area of at least 10
hectares with minimal requirement for off site works, near existing
community facilities, within easy reach of public transport, and the
price of which can be afforded by low and marginal income groups
should be preferred; (See separate policy on site selection);
V. ESTATE MANAGEMENT. MARKETING AND SALES
1. Estate Management. Estate management operations shall be terminated
with the disposal of the rented properties, the turnover of
resettlement sites, the transfer of completed physical and social
infrastructure, and the disposal of the mortgage portfolio;
2. Recovery of Interim Estate Management  Costs.    Estate management
operations shall be undertaken in the interim only within projects
that have not been disposed or turned over to other agencies. When
undertaken by the NHA, the full cost of estate management services
shall be recovered directly from the beneficiaries;
3.  Clredit gal.  Credit sales shall be covered by documents which are
acceptable to the NHNFC and other purchasing institutions;
4. RgMa1mMs. Downpayments shall be required for all lots sold  on an
installment basis;
5. Voluntary Savings. A voluntary savings program for lot purchase shall
be introduced under which beneficiaries who accumulate a stipulated
amount within a specified time period will be given priority for lot
award;
6.  MaJoritX  Acceptance for Upgrading.   A specific commitment from the
majority of beneficiaries of candidate slum upgrading sites, including
signed acceptance of the pricing and payment schemes, shall be a
prerequisite for project implementation;
MI. FINANCIAL POLICIES
1. Return on Equity. NHA shall become a financially viable corporation
with real capital growth achieved through the attainment of surplus.
Within the next five years, NHA shall at the very minimum, sustain its
existing capital in real terms. New equity infusions will be needed
during this period to provide growth capital for program expansion.
Thereafter, government infusions will be reduced and eventually
eliminated as NUA generates more growth capital itself and the need
for program expansion stabilizes.   As a general rule, the Rate of



- 144 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 10
Return on Equity targeted  for each yeer shall be greater than the
moving average of tbe anmwul rate of inflation computed for the last
ten years less the lowest and highesF annual rates experienced.
2.  Priclng.   Pricing shall be market related and based upon a cost plus
formula, such that aggregate sales prices of properties sold in any
financial year shall exceed the cost of development (including
interest expense) by an amount sufficient to cover all:
- non capitalized operating expenses,
- inflation,
- provisions for income tax on profits,
- and to generate a surplus.
Cross-Subsidies. For each project, full cost recovery is the minimum
under which the cheapest lot will be priced so that it is afforded by
the target beneficiaries and at least recovers all development costs
(including design and supervision, project management, and interest
expenses) and permits capital preservation.   The reliance on cross
subsidies from commercial industrial development shall be terminated.
(7.) Subsidies. NHA shall no longer incorporate subsidies into its programs
nor undertake governmental functions unless they are to be financed
directly by government budgetary allocations specifically enumerated
for these purposes and released to NRA as trust funds.
3. Portfolio Sale: NHA's role as a mortgage and loan administrator shall
be phased out as other agencies assume this role. NHA shall sell or
transfer the existing interest bearing residential mortgage portfolio
to the financial sector, and the small business loans to the TIC. The
non interest bearing resettlement mortgage portfolio shall be
transferred at no cost to the local governments or non governmental
organizations.   All outstanding houslng materials  loans shall be
Integrated into the residential mortgages. Mortgage loan sales shall
be made at prices which reflect their potential for recovery, and any
losses associated with them shall be assumed by the national
government.
4. CollectionsgArrearslForeclosures. It shall be corporate policy to
increase the existing collection rate in order to reduce average
zeceivables to three months potential "at the end of the program
period". NHA shall initiate an arrears management program which shall
set annual targets for the reduction of arrearages. Foreclosure and
termination proceedings shall be initiated against all beneficiaries,
particularly those of economic and commercial industrial
mortgag6s/loan, whose accounts become delinquent (see Letter of
Clarification for arrears policy of three months, to be achieved
within 3 years);
5.  Treatment of Existinm Loans to Local Governments.  Ezisting loans to
local governments shall be reviewed and those that are deemed
collectible shall remain in force until maturity. The uncollectible
loans shall be written off during the financial restructuring of NRA,
and all losses assumsd by the national govt.



- 145 -                           A=  13
Page 11
6. Termination of Direct Lending. No further direct "long term" lending
will be undertaken by NHA, except at times vhen adverse financial
market conditions make it impossible for NHA to sell unless credit is
provided. In general, mortgages will be originated once a loan
commitment has been made by the NHMFC or any other financial
institution to purchase the mortgages. The interest rates and terms of
these mortgages shall be those acceptable to the purchasing
institution.
7. (Moved up with #VI-2 above)
8. Accounting. NHA shall maintain its books .ccording to generally
accepted commercial accounting principles, under a full accrual system
with provisions made for doubtful accounts. The accounts will be
completed within two months following year-end;
9. Ka Ratios. The NHA will monitor financial performance according to
the following ratios, computed from entries in the commercial books
which exclude the trust accounts set up for subsidized projects:
(a) Current ratio of at least 2 to 1 to measure short term
liquidity, and ability to pay short term debts (see Letter
of Clarification for definition);
(b) Long term debt to equity ratio of not more than 15:1 to
measure capital structure and degree of indebtedness;
(c) Debt ratio of not more than 0.9 to measure the proportion of
assets financed through borrowings and the extent of trading
on equity (leveraging);
(d) Number of times interest earned ratio to measure the extent
that income earned is sufficient to cover interest
expenditures. Initially this shall not be less than 1.0 but
a more acceptable ratio of not less than 2.0 will be
targetted over the longer term;
(e) Profitability ratios measuring net income after tax against:
- total assets initially at least 0.5% but a return of at
least 6.0% shall be targetted over the longer term;
- equity initially at least 1.0% but a return of at least
12.0% shall be targetted over the longer term;
(f) (Debt service ratio covered in the NHA Project Agreement of
at least 1.1 to measure the extent to which internal cash
generation is sufficlent to cover debt servicing);
VII. APPROVAL. REVIEW AND AMENDMENT OF POLICIES
These policies will be subject to the approval of NRA Board of Directors and
shall be reviewed annually during the regular corporate planning process. Any
major amendments will be subject to Board approval.
*            *           *
Approved by the Board of Directors under
Resolution No. 1276 dated 14 September, 1987
Amended under Resolution No. 1390 dated
19 February, 1988



U                                   U.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                            -
U        ..                                                     ,.g -4 
U ~~    al                            *q    - qul.I:W "
-    -5--                       So~.f                                 Mo
9                        i    "       Z r. 34 ;        1 |
S                                     _ _0.  _ 
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~It
*                                             T   -  -   -    -  -  -  -  Tt  ' -T   , -  -  -  I
np__ ~   -- - ------       - - - - - -  ,t-- - - -----        3   .t - - v   
It   0                                                                                Mu I 0.  1=*
"  x       P        g                   |  ~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - - - - - - - - -T     
-  -     - -  -  -  -  -  -  -
--_------ "- -a--                  --~-i---  ----_ _ _                                     IS 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S      __-.g                $i                 _._ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                          W_
________         _______     _______       __   _     _   _____________ *_ jI            i        I 
U-    II-                                                           5~~~-- -        - - - -        - - -      
fluiD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
" _ tt _ " n Z "~~~~~~~~~*                     t |48    jt
-  VS~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~4                             .1$pWt
-   -     -     -     -    -     -   --   --   --  --   - - -1--5
5    _jt5__5t____i   _ _ 5~~~~~~~~~ I| S U
X----_____| __ _ __n_____________._____-----_-:U - -
3                                    -  -     - . -                  - -   -   -   -   -
g   _____"   __               3      ____"__ ____  ___________________|_  _I   3
> tt                   __    g_  __    _,    _-  --   - .- ----       -                 . _i- I



"                            -~~~~I-                           I r                                                           I         
* a                                       :! ~t..*4*D *..2  *          |                                         '°   .4B      81   | :~~        f i i     
n                                               _i   _          .                                      .....    .                      1
ct  -1*I       -  -_ *n-n
,.            0-      Ca                       lb   _ --..-                               -    -..  a - *                I _   _    t I        *
hC       9 -  ~                      *    -.      . .-                       ' - N_                     -          -_    - _        4 _*G
Om  _                 -g -    a                                                                "a a  m    3  --                    -.       *         4 n   _  t4
*a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.           j --            ---.  4--   ----4 _:-   @
44 -                         -' - n                    -                            _* _ _  _.   ato
.4.. .." .    :~ gg          le                                                                                                 I n%
" 3 ne                                    -          r.      at | -|                                                -    -~ -       
.4  'a *- -                                                           i              -    --  -. -  -    - .  -Is.- - - ggi~~~~*-    a.~~g   
X~~~~0                   -m                        3  _*.                 . *-  _            ._____4__        __4||   -3____#     
;  1   .....                     - -i    i-----                    g-----            -----                        
E | ...... ,                                                                                                                                ra _  __. -  . .. 
.a c... - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                   0. '0~~~~~~~~~~~~c
a.                                                   0~~~~-
10,                                                                                             -      -     -     -     -    -     -    -     -     --  $1 1-  = 
4*  a       -                                                                             a.4.~~~~~~~~ - - -      - - -        -E
4*II                   !.                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----             ----      
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
4*44--         -                                                                                                                        4 - - - -           - - - -        
44          4- -         - - - -        
-           --     -- -            - -      9-   -    -           - - - -  -                - - --        -4--    -3  
-         --             - -     - -     -                              - - -   -  - -  -  - -A                                         
a  a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r I -. 
4*..           -         ---     ---                          ---           - --4.4---      - -                                     - --  ..-
a---  4.4*    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                           4*44~~~
t    -   -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -   -     - -   -     -  -   -     - -     -   -     -     -     -      -  -     -     -     -      -     -  --    -,-4-



ii ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~ ~       i                                                              do6*s   g4,     5     t       
I  *  -I-.   . Z IL
zm   ~    ~     4b.- V.
I~~~                                                       *-.                                                       [          i 
I    -    ~ ~   v40-                                             ip0 
- - ' *- iZ~~~~~~i  -            -ali #_X-s       s~-i            
6~4-
|~~~~~~~~~ _                                                                                a- m. i          a-_.            e 
.5  ~~~~ 0    uaa t-.'4 L
v. -     a                                                                    4C Ge  - -
0G.   m    o~~a-         G.'               43                                                                           C
0   0 0.
-G- £---- -                                                       -3- - -                                                     -___  _
: __  g_-          _                                                                                          .    ...  _            _______.  _      ,     
N             -       -     --              -0     - -                -   -- -. -                                                              * --
-  - - - -              - -  - -________ - - - -- -I- - -  -;                                              
----~ e-- --- #' *- -- -- -- -- -- -- ------                                                    - - __- - -   - - - --
_  l                                           ....- -  -                                        -  -  -  - _  ii
-  - i   -                                                                                                                   i -   -   -- - -   --
----                                                                                                    -   -   -   -
LS----ii                                                                                                                                               -  ''  -   -           N         
!!          X                                                                .'S                                                  S .        N ;   Sg      >t
i   X                                                                                     ..              ^ a  s _  ii X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ is s s E s i...a r
g ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ .. -f _                                                                                                          3     ........    .                                                       .---__    
5            tS                         Ii                                                                                         i ua   ; SS-
Stls  ~I   -t                                                                _                   -               "    -_               ,



a a                      _-                       !         G- 
F   ,9                 s ! Z s '        -
IL __ft e. r. aa.                       - I                                              £    : 
j_.       _          _7 - -' Z
~~-  - - - - - - - - - -  - - -  75
_-- a                        - _ _  -  - -  - - -                7
-_             -_  - $_ _--- ----  d---                               __ 
j:~~~~~ -                  -1 -   - -    -   --   --   -- -    -    -   _-      _, e     -    -D 7 3
_ _  _  _  _ __ __ _- - -                  - - -   31- - - ---  ja
- -     - - - - -           !S- - - -    _____-    - - -   7!!- - - - -                     7-'*° 3
-4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-.    -,-  - -                                                    -         -- - - -   -
-   -    -   -     -   -  -   -   -     -   -   -   -   .. -    -   -     -     -     -     -   7d -    -   -_-   -     -   -   - _   _
3 ~  ~    ~ ~~     -                           -    1--It-   -  _                                            -  - -
4~           ~~~ -  -  d- ---          - -- - --          - - -  - - -S - - - -                 
-   -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - - - I  -    -
X~~~j                                iim7   ~~a~~g                                                       I  7S_
Q             -       ,tI               ,0  *                                               ,s   s-"~~~~~~- 
^~ 7S__j   ;=7  



- 151 -
ANNEX 14A
PAGE 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NlEA  INCOME  STATEMENT
MATIMKL NWU8IN AUTNORITY  -  FINANCIAL PERFORNANCE
................................ .............................................. 
I(Ewft. In Pow  Nillion at Current Prices)
INCW STATINT                          N I 8 I h   S   I C A L                             P R O J E C T E D
* a V I I U E 8                0  19s 1  192  1903  198 1964  1965  1966        97  1966  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
.........                   ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....           ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....
siet of Nwrtgws                0     0      0     0     0      0     0           14   101   252   379   624  7S1   719
-Pr.detfmn Comt                0     0     0      0     0      0     0           12   99   247   366  583   660   604
.... .... ... ..
Gros  ProfIt                   0                  0     0      0     0            1      2     5    12    41    91   115
Nisctlltisus                  47    61    71    J5   111   116   132            144   159   170   181   191   217   235
hnAL RYEVENI                  47    61    71    85   111   116   132            145   161   175   193   232   308   349
EXPEND ITURIS
.......................0
P"  uwl S      imom           n     25    30    35    50   50    49              60    63    66    70   72    70    67
otberw  retiqs Cte            10    16    21    19    29    23    23             20    21    22    23    24    23    22
Interest  id lnk Chmrs         1     6     9    14    19    30    36             79    92    94    85    62  44 27
LcsaesiD. zpr .ltion          10     9     911         11      6  15             26   27   27    28    27   28    28
....  ..... ...    ......  ....    ......  ....    . .....  ....  ...   ..... ......  .......    .. .....  ....
TOTAL   PITUI                 43   55    69 79        109 11       123          18S   202   210   206   186   165  145
.. .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....  .....  . .. .  ......  .. ......  ....  ....
NOT INOS                       4     6      2     6     3      5     9          -40   -41   -35   -12    47   143   205
-Ineoe To                      1     1     0      0     0      0     0            0     0      0     0    16   50  72
.... .... .... .... .... .... ....    .... .... .... .... .... .... ....
ET AFTERTAXTM   1              2     5      2     6     3      S     9          -40   -41   -35   -12    31    93   133
_---                                                -    m_   m_   _u    _    m_  _   _



- 152 -
TAKLE 2
ANiNEX 14A
PAGE 2
NATIONAL ROUSING AUTHORITY  -  FINANCIAL PERFOR NCE
....................................................
(Structural Analyse. in Percentafg)
INCOhE STATENENT                          N I S T O R I C A L                                     P R O J E C T E D
R E V E N U E S               1980  1981  1962  1963  1984  1985  1966                 1967  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
.._......................     ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....              ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... . ...  --
Sale af Nortgae                   0      0      0      0      0      0      0             9    63   144   196   269   244    206
-Production Cost                  0      0      0      0      0      0      0             8    61    142   189   251   21S 1
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....             ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
Gross Proftt                      0      0      0      0      0      0      0             1      1      3      6     18    30    33
seollaneous                     100  100   100   100   100   100   100                   99         99   7    94    82    70    67
......... ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......    ... .....  ....    ......  ....    . .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....  ....
TOTAL  EVENUES                 100   100   100   100   100   100   100                  100   100   100   100   100   100   100
EXPEND I TURES
=......................
Perso,el Servam                 48   40    42   41    45    43    37                     41    39    38    36    31         23    19
Other Operating Costs            21     26    30    22    26    20    17                 14     13     13     12      10      8      6
Interet and  ank Charges    2    10            13     16    17   26   27                 55    57    54   44         27     14      8
Losses/Depreclatfon             21      15    13      13    10       7     11            18     17    16    14       12      9      8
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....             ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ;... ... ........ ... ........ .. ....
TOTAL EXPENDITURES              92    90    97   93 9   98                 98           127   125   120   106         b    54   41
....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....             ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ...........
NET INCOME                        8   10    3    7    2    2    2                       -2  -25  -20   -6  20  46  59
- Income Tex                      2      1      0      0      0      0      0             0      0      0      0      7     16    21
......... ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....  ....  ....  ......    .. .....  ....    ......  ....  ....
NET AFTER TAX INCOWE              5      8      3      7      3      4      7            27   -25   -20       -6    13    30    38
10/25/87



- 153 -
TAKE. 3                            NATIONAL hOUSING AUTHORITY  -  FINANCIAL PEFORMACE
.......................................ANNEX  14A
INCONE STATEMENT RATIOS                (Amnow~ts In Psos Million at Current Prices)                     PA`GE3 3
196   1961  1982  1963  1964  196   1966        196?  196   1989  199   19".i  199  199
RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS:
Mot Income                   4     6     2     6     3     5    9           -40 -41   -35 -12    47 143 205
trwestment at Jan  1      1194  1518  1943  2635  3276  3648  414?        4643  3589  3605  3566  3296  3294  3372
investment at Dec 31      1518  1943  2635  3276  3648  4147 4643         3589  3605  3566  3296 3294 3372 3500
Ave. Investment in Asstet 1356  1731  228   2956  3462 389   4395          4116  3597 358   3431  3295  3333  3436
R A T I 0   0.3   0.3   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2        -1.0  -1.1  -1.0  -0.4   1.4   4.3   6.0
RETURN ON EQUITY:
NetIncme4                          6     2     6     3     5     9          -40 -41 -35 -12    47 143 205
Equity at Jan  1           97   1236  1514  1940  2149  2336  2529        2576  178   1730  1713  1458  1479  1600
Equity at Dec 31          1236  1514  1940  2149  2336  2529 2576          1780  173   1713  1458  1479  1600  177
Average Equfty            1106  1375  1727  2045  2243  2433  2553         2178  1755  172   1566  1469  1539  1667
R A T t 0   0.3   0.4   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.2   0.4        -1.8  -2.3  -2.0  -0.8   3.2   9.3  12.1
=amaamm mama   ----                                                     -- -
RETURN ON CAPiTAL EMPLOYED:
NotlnIomafter taxes          2     5     2     6     3     5     9          -40   -41   -35   -12    31    93   133
Equfty + L*tmi Debt Jan 1 1122  1331  1685  2352  2918  3220 3808         4041  3111  3127  3064  2802  279   269
Equity.+ L't'm Debt Dec31 1331  1685,  2352  2918  3220  3808 4041        3111  3127  3084  2802  279   2893  3043
Avergep Equity LT Debt    1227  1508  2019  2635  3069  3514  3925         3576  3119  3106  2943  2800  2846  2968
R A T I 0   0.2   0.3   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2        -1.1  -1.3  -1.1  -0.4   1.1   3.3   4.5
manmamaamm   mm    aamaamm mm   mama                        axa        mama mama   - Us=  aa
RATE OF RETMUR  ON INCME EARNING INVESTMNTS:
Not lrwestmnent ncome        4     6     2     6     3     5     9          -41 -43  -40  -25         6  5290
Short Term investments     109   71   232   115    68   105   127          280   294   386   225   185   174    80
RentatlProperty             91    87   82    70    65    97   189           152  139   126   113   100   88    75
Instatlmt Contract Robte   21   108   141   164   215   220   435          721   738   784   844   678   862   840
Other lrwestments          183   211   311   417   467  464  600            125   166   189   207   216   209   203
TotalInvesmentDec1 40    477-  7--6  766-  815-  886- 1351          1278  1336  1.85  1390. 1380  1333  119?
Totat Investments Jan 3138 404   477   766   766  815   8 86  1351            1278  1336  1485  1390  1380  1333 19
Average NFA & Investments 392  441   622   766   791   851  1119           1314  1307  1411  1438  1385  1356  1265
N A T I 0   0.9   1.3   0.4   0.6   0.4   0.6   0.8        -3.1  -3.3  -2.9  -1.7   0.5   3.8   7.1
DEDT SERVICE COVERAGE:
Not After TaXtinc            2     5     2     6     3     5    9           -40   -41   -35   -12    31    93   133
interet ndlai* Charons    1    6         9    14   19   30    36            79    92    94    85    62    44     27
Losses/Depreciatfon         10    9      9  11    II    815s                26 27 2728  2728  28
intenmLtCash Geeratfon    13   20    20   31    33    43    60              66    77    87   100   120   165   188
Debt Servicing               8    10   16    18   27  142   177             183   164   1710  168   164   161   158
R A T I 0   1.7   2.0   1.3   1.7   1.2   0.3   0.3         0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.7   1.0   1.2
mamamamma  maaaa==aamm                          aa                 aamm   mm - mm 
10/25/87



-154 -
TABLE 4                                            PHILIPPINES
ANNEX 14B
HOUSING SECTR PRJECT                                            N 
NHA BALACE SUET
(Amounts In Peos NiLtian at Current Priess)
BALANCE  SHEET                       H IS8TORAI CA L                                   P aOJ IC TEaD
....................*....................................
ASS E TS9                  1960  1961  1962  1963  1964  196   19686         196   1939  196   19O  lo1  10   1993
..........  ...    ....  ...   ........  ...   ....      ....  ....... ..             .... ..
CMRRENT ASSETS:
Cah                 ~~109 73  60 113 220292339                         141w V 3283463 62
Shoirt Term Invetmsnts      109    71  232  115    66 10512?                 a 294  386 235185 174    so
Accounts Receivabte (net)  140   112   113   155   124   125   183           2M9   M               439   494   554   M2
Inventories                  4      6     6     7     5      8     7           4      5     7     9   1315s19
TOTAL CURREN  ASSETS        362   262   431   390   417   530   656          04    67?   S1T   70    75    06   784
INVESTNENTS:
Rental Properties           106   107   107    96    97   124   22           US   US   US6   U58            6as   258
-Prov'n for Deprecfation   17    20    25    28    32    27    32           106   119   13    145  1IN    170   183
Written dwAnvatue            91    87    82    70    65    97   189           152   13    126   113   100    so    75
Irstatlut Contract Rcbte    21   106   141   16"   215   220   435           73    M3   78    84    87    862   840
Other Investments           183   211   311   417   467   464   60            15   146   189   20    216   20    203
........    ..     ..     ..    ...6......                  .. ...  ....   ...
TOTAL INVESTMETS            295   406   534  idd   747   781  122            956  10U   1100  1145  1194  1159  1117
PROPERTY AND ESUIPEENT:
Landendlnprovaments           5     5     7     7     7      7     7           9     9      9     9     9      9     9
suitdinpmwd Structures  2728 33 35 374152                                     at973is7381el8487
Eqaipmsnt                    26 2930 35424651                                 57 67 7787 97107 117
subtoteL                     58 62 707?8694 110                              13514 161n1847W200 213
- Provtn for Depmistion   14    20    24    30    37    51    5e              67    e1    95   110   125   140   155
...    ...    ..    ...    ......   ... ... ..  .......a ...  a.. ...
WRITTENDMM VALUE PE    44    42    46          47    49    43    52           48    47    46     6     62    40    58
OTHERt ASSETS:
Vorks In Progress           678  1126  1505  1915  1471  1577   80           399 w 37   370   5 346   75    830
SaLe/Transfer Properties    94    65    60   233   859  MIi  1835           133   14    1174   TR7   636   552   671
Miscellaneou                 4542 5940 105105 76                              40 4040 404040 40
..    ...                            ...    . 0.   .......  ....a   ....  .....
TOTAL OTNER ASSETS          817  1233  16'24, 2'18'8  2'43'5  2793' 2'7'11  103   181   158   13   1312  1347  1541
.0    0      ........          ....   ....
TOTAL ASSETS               1518  19-43  2'63'5  32'7'6  36-48, 4,14,7  46-43,  35    36W   3566  529   32    3372  30
10/25/87



- 155 -
TABLE 4 Continued
AMNNE 14B
PAGE 5
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY - FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
....................................................
(Amomts In Pesos Nitlion at Current Prices)
ALaNcE  SHEET                          H   S 8 T O R I C A L           I                   P R OJ E C T E D
-                   ~~~~~~.........................................     .........................................
L I A 8      I L I T I E 8  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1965  1986            1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  199
CURENT LIABILITIES:
Accoint Payable.              37    20    40   139   158   159   2?5             194   206   211   215   221   226   23
Other Current Liabftities  100   132   108    53   105    91   132                66     66     6     6     6S    66    66
....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....           ....  ....  ....  .._    ....  ....  ...._
Total Current Liabitities  137   152   148   192   263   250   407               260   m      27?   281   287   294   302
LONG-TERN LIABILITIESs
Publti  Debts                 95   171   412   769   884  1279  1465            1331  1397  1370  1344  1319  129   1269
OTHER LIABILITIES:
Deferred Profit on Sales    12    66    95   111   114    85   188               217   205   206   211   208   184   155
iscellaneous                  38    40    40  55        51      4     7            0      0     0      0     0      0      0
....      ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     ..... ............ ............._...... ..
Total Other Liabilities       50   106   135   166   165    89   195             217   205   206   211   208   1864  155
.. .....  ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  .... . . ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... .... .....   ..    
Total Liabilities            Z82   429   695  1127  1312  1618  2067            1808  1874  1853  1837  1814  1M    172
GOVERNMENT EQUITY:
Paid-in Capital              590   866  1265  1435  1669  1835  1835            1067  119?  1467  167  147  1467  1467
Saubediesd Surplusses        651   646   671   701   620   607    39             753   614   362   119    93    71    40
Retairned Earnings             5      2     4    13    47    87   702            -40   -81  -116  -128   -81    62   266
,...... ............ ..............    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....  ....    ......  ....  ....  ...... ._... ...  ...._
TOTAL EWITY                 1236  1514  1940  2149  2336  2529  2576            1780  1730  1713  1458  1479  1600  1M
....      ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     ..... ...................  _...... ..
TOTAL LIABILITIES/EQUITY  1518  1943  2635  3276  3648  4147  4643              3589  3604  3566  3295  3293  3372  3S00
mu  urn   mu    -    ur           -    3333          -    mmnu  no=-    urn==aurn..
10/25/87



-156 -
TABLE 5                                                                                                AIUX14B
PAGE 6
NATIONAL HOUING AUTHORITY  -  FINANCIAL MEFORNANCE
(Structural Analyse  In Percentaes)
BALANCE  SHEET                      giH TORICAL                                      P ROJ E CTIED
A S S E T S               196  1961  1962  IM5  1964  196   1966           190719 191969  1990  1991  199   199
CURRENT ASSETS3
Cash                        71    &            3     6     7     7           4      1     1     1     1    2      2
Short TormInvestmmnts        9     6     4    5    3       3     4           7     911I    13   15    16  18
Accounts Roceivabte (net)    0    0      0     0    0      0    0            0      0     0     0     0     0     1
Inventories                 ')    0      0     0     0     0     0           0     0     0     0      0     0     1
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS        M4    13    16   12   11   13   14               19   19   23    21    22    24    22
INVESTMENTS:
Rentat Propertles                  6     4     3     3     3     5           7     7      7     8     a     a     7
- Prov*n for bepreclatlcn    I     I    I      I     I     I    1            3     3     4     4      5     5    5
Written down vatue           6     4     3     2    2      2    4            4      4     4     3     3     3     2
Instutlmt Contract Rcbte     1    6      5     5    6      5     9          20    20    22    26   2V    26    24
other lwestmsnt             12  11    12  1313  11    13                     3     5      5     6     7    6      6
TOTAL tMVESTNENTS           19 21  20 202019 26                             28 29 31  35 36 3432
PROPERT AND EWIPNENT:
L&WandastIuprvemsnts         0     0     0     0     0     0     0           0     0     0      0     0     0    0
u,tldlrgs andStructume       2     1     1     1     1     1    1            2     2      2     2     2     2    2
Equilpmnt                    2     1     1     1     1     1     1           2     2      2    3      3     3    3
SubtotaL                     4     3    3      2    2      2     2           4     4     5      5    6      6     6
- Prov'n for Depreeftatln    1     1     1    1      1     1    1            2     2     3     3     4      4     4
WIRITTEN OM IVALUE P 9E      3     2     2     1     1     1     12                2      2     2     2     2     2
OTHER ASSETS:
WorksIn Prors.              45 585758O4038 17                                11  10  10 16 19 2224
Sate/Trnmfer Properties      6     3     2     7    24    27   40           39    39   33    24    19   16   19
Nlsoettansou                 3     2     2     1    3      3     2            1     1     1     1     1     1    1
TOTAL OTHER ASETS           54  6362  6767  6756B                           51    50    4     41    40    40~
TOtAL ASSETS               100   100   100   100   100   100   100         100   100   100   100   100   100   100
mu   mu  ur~n"                                    on"uu - mu---
10/25/87



- 157 -
ANNEX 14B
PAGE 7
NATIONAL NUSING AUTHORITY - FINANCIAL PERFORNANCE
....................................................
(Structural Analyses in Percentages)
BALANCE   HEET                              1 8 T ToR  I CA  L                                   P R O J E C T E D
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............  ............ .............................  .............................. ........
L I A B I L I t I    8        190  1961  196   16   1964   95  1986                  1987  1968  1989  1990  1991  1           1993
.....................   .... .... .... .... .................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts Paysble                 2      1      2      4      4      4      6             5      6      6      7      7      7     7
Other Current Ltabtltties    7          7      4      2      3      2      3             2      2      2      2      2      2     2
....  ..... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....             ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
Total Current Liab1tlt1es    9          8      6      6      7      6      9             7      8      8      9      9     9      9
LONG-TERN LIABILITIES:
Pubtic Debts                     6      9     16    23    24    31    32                37    39    38    41    40    38    36
OTHER LIABILITIES:
Deferred Profit an Sales         1      3      4      3      3      2      4             6      6      6     6      6       5     4
Nseetltneous                     3      2      2      2      1      0      0             0      0      0      0      0      0     0
o .. ........ ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....
Total Other LiabilIttes          3      5      5      5      5      2      4             6      6     6      6      6      5      4
.. . ........ ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....
Totat Liabilitfes               19    22    26    34    36    39    45                  50    52    52    56    55    53    49
GOVERNMENT EMJITY:
Paid-1n Capital
Subsidies/Surplusses            39    45    48 6444                      40            30    33    41    45    45   44           42
Retained Earnins                 0      0      0      0      1      2    15             .1    -2    -3   -4    -2          2      8
.. . ........ ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  .... ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....
TOTAL EUITY                     81  78  74  664   61 55                                50  48  48  444    47 51
....  ..... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....             ...... ....  ...... ....  ...... ....  ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
TOTAL LIABILITIES/EWJITY   100   100   100   100   100   100   100                    100   100   100   100   100   100   100
10/25/87



- 158 -
TABLE 6                           NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY - FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
....................................................            ANNEX 14B
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS                  (Amoumts In Pesos Million at Current Prices)                  PAGE 8
1980  1981  1982 1983  1984  1965  1966       1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
....   ..... ....     ...... ....   ...... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....   ...... ....   ......  ... ........ ... ........ ... ........
CURRENT RATIO:
Current Assets            36.  262  431  390  417  530  656              694  67   817  702  725  606  784
Current LiabiLities       137  152  148  192  263  250  407             260  272  277  281  287  294  302
R A T I 0  2.6  1.7  2.9  2.0  1.6  2.1  1.6              2.7  2.5  3.0  2.5  2.5  2.7  2.6
_333 =              _               =                     3     3 _         -     =   =3= __
WICK (ASSET TEST) RATIO:
Current Assets            362  262  431  390  417  530  656              694  677  817  702  725  806  784
Less Inventories            4    6    6    7    5    8    7               4    5    7    9    12   15   19
.... .... .... .... .... .... ....   .... .... .... .... .... .... ....
Liquid Assets             358  256  425  383  412  522  649             690  672  810  693  713  791  765
Current Liabilities       137  152  148  192  263  250  407              260  272  277  281  287  294  302
R A T I 0  2.6  1.7  2.9  2.0  1.6  2.1   1.6             2.6  2.5  2.9  2.5  2.5  2.7  2.5
333=3=3  333  3o  3               3   =33 3              3333  333  3=3  =33  3= 3
LONG-TERM DEBT TO CAPITALIZATION:
Long-term Debt             95  171  412  769  884  1279  1465           1331  1397  1370  1344  1319  1294  1269
Long-term Debt + Equfty  1331  1685 2352 2918 3220 3808 4041           3111  3127 3084 2802 2798 2893 3043
R A T I 0  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4              0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.4  0.4
_=333333   33=  33=  33=  3=   33=  _=3                  =33  *3=  =_3  _33  _3          =33
LONG-TERN DEBT TO EQWITY:
Low-term Debt              95  171  412  769  884  1279  1465           1331  1397 1370  1344  1319  1294  1269
Equity                   1236  1514  1940 2149 2336 2529 2576           1780  1730  1713  1458  1479  1600 1773
R A T I 0  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.6              0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  0.9  0.8  0.7
=                           =   3=  3         =            =   3 =                     =  
DEBT TO EQUITY:
Total Debt                282  429  695  1127  1312  1618 2067         1808  1874  1853  1837  1814  177? 1727
Equity                   1236  1514  1940 2149 2336 2529 2576           178  1730  1713  1458  1479  160) 1M3
A A T I 0  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.8              1.0  1.1  1.1  1.3  1.2  1.1  1.0
3333333=33 3_33 a33   -3     3   a333 3333 3333          33 3         =   =33  =333  =3
EQUITY:
Equity                   1236  1514  1940 2149 2336 2529 2576          1780  1730  1713  1458  1479  1600 1M
Total Assets             1518  1943 2635 3276 3648 4147 4643           3589 3605 3566 3296 3294 3372 3500
R A T I d  0.8  0.8  0.7  0.7  0.6  0.6  0.6              0.5  0.5  0.5  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5
=333333   33=33    =3  =33  333  333                     3_3   333 333   3    3=3   =3 333
DEBT RATIO:
Total LiabiLities         282  429  695  1127 1312  1618 2067           1808  1874  1853  1837  1814  17   1727
Total Assts              1518  1943 2635 3216 3648 4147 4643           3589 3605 3566 3296 3294 3372 3500
R A T I 0  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4              0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.5  0.5
_- 3=3=  3=3~3333  _333                       ~    _   _3_38 8      =33  =333  =33  =333s-
10/25/87



- 159 -
TASE 7                                            PHILIPPINES
ANNEX 14C
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT                                               PACE 9
NHA CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(Amounts in Pesos Million at Current Prices)
CAN  FLOU STATENT                      H 1    T OR I C A L                                 P R O J E C T E D
.........................................           ......................................................................
R E C E I P T 8             1980  1981  1982  1983  1964  196M  1986            1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
In omn from Operations        47    61    71    85   111   116    95             158   260   422   559   815   967   953
- Cash OperatIng Costs        34    41    51    54    79    73    80              92   182   335   459   695   803   765
....      ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
et from operations            13    20    20    31    32    43    15              66    77    87   100   120   165   188
Loan Collections               0      5    67    37    68    88    18             57    79   108   127   139   143   145
Reautn of Investments          0    66      0      0     0    90      0            0      0      0     0      0     0      0
New Sorrowing                 92    86   233   287  144   451   204              200    97       0     0      0     0      0
covornomnt: Equity           184   275   400   170   234   166        0          200   130   270       0      0     0      0
Soafl Progr.   95        0    28    34    15    26    64             50    50    50    50    50    60    60
ftumds rom contractors         2      0     0      0     0      0     6            0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Chwen  in Misc. Assets         0    73  -175   125   196   -82    42            -286  -103   -24   340   450   525   653
= ... ........ ... ........ ... ........ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....
TOTAL RECEIPTS               386   525   573   684   689   782   349             287   330   491   617   758   893  1046
PAYNENTS
~...............
Development Costs            316   447   433          -1 305   46   117          266   255   322   453   585   699   786
Loan Rleases                  50    49    69   55    78    28    12                0      0     0      0      0     0      0
Lend ad Buildngs               4      1     7      2     3      a     0            0      0     0      0     0      0      0
Aoufsitfon of Equfpment        1      3    17      4     7      5     2           12    13    13    13    13    13    13
Investmentuleposfts            7    51    14    15    15    I8    71            -161   -52  -110   145    31    20   100
LOn Repeyents                  8    10    16    18    27   142    70             183   164   170   168   164   161   158
Other Deposits                19      0    10      1    87    31    29           156    46  103  -153   -40   -30   -11
.. ............ ............ ............ .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....   .....  ....    ......  ....    ......  ....   ......  ....
TOTAL PAYMENTS               405   561   566   651   582   710   301             456   426   498   625   753   863  1046
....      ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....  ...... ....     ...... ....     ...... ....     ..... ............ ............ ............ ..
CMAGEN CASH AT ANK           -19   -36      7    33   107    72    47           -169   -97    -7    -8       5    29    -1
10/25/87= =
10/25/87



- 160 -
.14
PAU 10
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
NHA KEY ASSUMPTIONS
1. During 1986 and 1967 IRA In cooperation with the Couaisuonm on Audit (COA), wdertook a mejor review of Its
ffnancial position. Todate about P 1.1 billifon of write-offs and other adjustments hav been fdentfffed. It
is estimstod that a further P 700 mitlion of adjustments will be required In order for NHA to secure an unt
qualified audit. The projection assums that all neceosary adjustments will be lncluded In the Audited Finanr-
cial Statements for 1988.
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992       TOTAL
-.-.......  ....  ...... ......   .........  .....
P n  P mn  P mn P sn P mn           P m
2. INVESTNENT PROGRAM Is estimated of the following megnitude:             266   255   322   453   585        1801
3. MORTGAGE SALES to NHNFC as follows:                                      14  101   252   379   624          1370
4. BORROVING from existing sources for completfon of the current program 200   97        0     0     0         297
S. GOVERNENT EQUITY infusion to prime the new deveLopmen program:          200   130   270     0     0         600
6. GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES for funding of SOCIAL (Resettlement) PROGRANS:    50    SC    50    50    50           250
TOTAL  OVERMET FUNDING:                                                 250   180  320    50    50          850
7. COLLECTION EFFICIENCIES as foltows:
CA) Loans to Local Goverrnmnt               X    60.0  70.0 80.0  90.0 92.5
(3) Loans to Private Individuals            X    60.0  70.0  80.0  90.0  92.5
tC) Loans for HML & IBL                     X    60.0  70.0  80.0 90.0  92.5
CD) Instalment Contracts Receivable         X    70.0 90.0  95.0 95.0  95.0
8. INCONE YIELDS AND RATES as follows:
(A) Loans to Local Goverrment               X    10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
(B) Loans to Private Individuals            X    10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
(C) Loans for HNL & IBL                     X    14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0
tD) Instalment Contracts Receivable         X     9.5  10.0  10.5  11.0  11.5
(E) Rental Nousing Income                   X     5.5   6.0   6.5   7.0   7.5
(F) Interest on Short Term Investments      X     5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
9. EXPENDITURE RATE and TAXATON as follows:
(A) Adifnistratfon Costs   Personnel        X     6.0  6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
(3) Adcinistrative Costs - Other Overheads X      2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
(C) Depreciation Rental Nousing             X     5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
(D) Income Tax Rate                         X    35.0 35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0
10. OTHER ASSUIPTIUS
CA) Inflation rates included in the projections are based on Bank estimates of 5 X p.a.
(B) Interest capitalifed as part of construction cost has been set at 9 X p.a.
CC) NRA will not seek or requfre to raise local or external loans.
0I/am



- 161 -                          ANNEX 15
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.          An economic rate of return was calculated on a typical housing
unit to be built under the project, utilizing the Bank's standard imputed
rental value methodology. The rate of return therefore reflects the return
expected on the mortgage investment component of the project, and excludes
the materials import component per se.
2.               Costs are mid-1987 and include land,  design/engineering,
administration, survey and site preparation, civil works, labor for
completing dwellings and infrastructure and dwelling maintenance at 3%.
Labor was shadow priced at a local wage rate for informal labor which did not
exceed the official minimum wage. Land was priced at its highest opportunity
cost, which generally represented market value. Costs excluded taxes and
inflation. Benefits were based on imputed rental values as reflected in a
mid-1987 survey. For upgrading, communities with and without the proposed
service levels were surveyed to determing the incremental difference in rents
attributable to the improved services. These communities were selected with
reasonably comparable locational advantages to neutralize the impact of
location on rent levels. Land was treated as a benefit in the last year of
the project (terminal value) at the same value as the original cost,
reflecting no real increase or decrease in value. Separate calculations were
made for Metro Manila and regional cities.
3.           The resulting rate of return  would range from about 27% on
serviced sites to 31%-37% on slum upgrading depending upon whether the site
was located in Metro Manila or the regions, as shown in Table 15-I.
Sensitivity runs were made to test the effects of a 20% increase in costs
which might arise from delays in construction or inflation, or a 20% decrease
in benefits which might occur from lower-than-expected rental levels. Both
cases still result in a satisfactory return. These relatively high returns
reflect the scarcity of suitable accomodation and utility services.   If
supply were to come into better balance with demand by the time of project
completion, these rates of return would drop, since they are based upon
market rent levels.
4.           In addition to the economic rate of return, sales prices were
checked to determine the immediate financial return on a typical unit built
under the project. Table 15-I shows the expected return based on cash sale
immediately upon completion of the unit.   Returns range from 35%-41% for
serviced sites, and from 33%-48% for slum upgrading. Sensitivity analysis on
this basis, again assuming 20% increase in price or 20% decline in benefit,
would lower the expected return, which would, however, still remain within
acceptable limits.



- 162 -                           ANN    15
Page 2
Table 15-I
EConomic Rate of Return
Using Imputed Rental Value         Using Sales Prices
Component      Metro Manila   Reg. Cities      Metro Manila   Reg. Cities
A. Rate of Return on:
Serviced Sites    27%            28%              35%           41%
Slum Upgrading    31%            37%              33%           48%
B. Assuming 20% Cost
Increase:
Serviced Sites    24%            24%              22%           28%
Slum Upgrading    27%            32%              20%           34%
C. Assuming 20% Decrease
in Benefits:
Serviced Sites    23%            24%              19%           26%
Slum Upgrading    26%            31%              18%           31%
5.              Cost and benefit streams have been prepared utilizing a
computerized model, and are available on file.



- 163 -                         ANNEX 16
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUNENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
SECTORAL ACTIONS
Executive Order #90
Sectoral Policy Statement
Sectoral Investment Plan
NHMFC ACTIONS
Policy Statement
Business Plan
Institutional Action Plan
HDNF Transfer Agreement
GSIS/SSS Loan Agreements
Mortgage Sale Terms Agreement with NBA
First S/S/Upgr Sale Agreement Signed
NUA ACTIONS
Policy Statement
Pricing Policy Summary
Institutional Action Plan
Revised Development Standards
Balance Sheet Cleanup
Portfolio Liquidation Plan
Criteria for Selection of Subprojects
HIGC
Interim Policy Statement
Agreement of the COP and PO on Sale of Maunlad S&L
DIVESTITURES
SIDCOR/HIGC Trust Agreement for BDC Liquidation
BDC Liquidation Plan
STUDIES TERMS OF REFERENCE
Constraints to Recovery for Small/Medium Contractors
NBA Auditing/Accounting Assistance
NHMFC Auditing/Accounting Assistance



PFILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
SECIOR ORGANIZATION CHART
A. FORMER ORGANIZATION
| inistry of Human Settlements
.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance
Production                                          Regulation          Financial
Funmtion                                            Function          Sourcing                Mortgage              Insurance
Function               Function               Function          t
N.A                            HSDC                           HSRC                    DF                      C                  IIFC
National             Human Settlements Development       Human Settlements      Housing Development      National Rome        Housing Finance
Housing                      Corporation                     Regulatory            Mutual Fund             Mortgage             Corporation
Authority ,                (Holding Company)                 Comnission         (PAG-IBIG Provident      Finance Corp.
Fund) 
BDC              VW              BB              NHC                   SSS                Originating
Bliss Develop-      Woodwaste       Builder's       National          Social Security        (and Collecting)
ment Company        Company         Bricks          Housing              System                BankAs
Company        Corporation  ,        _.
¢SIS
Gov't Social
Insurance
System
World Bank 41000



rl+l  ~~~~~~~~~~~I
'.4~~~~~~~~~~~~
L- ___  __l---| §jS
3 ~ ~ ~ L I
L.ammrnm.mma. I I ---'I W JIItjII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Housing and Urban Development Coordinating Council
Organization Chart
(HUDCC)
HUDCC MEMBERSHIP
Chairman: appointed by President
NHA General Manager                    HDMF General Manager
NHMFC President                        SSS General Manager
HLURB Commissioner                    GSIS General Manager
HI3C General Manager                  National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA)
Dept. of Budget and Management (DBM)   Department of Finance (DOF)
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)  Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)
Private Sector Representatives (2)
COUNCL SECRETARIAT
l                                        H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY GENERAL
(COUNCL CHARMAN)
OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT
SECRETARY GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE
DEPUTY SECRETARY
GENERAL
POLICY AND              RESEARCH AND                FINANCIAL               MANAGEMENT
PLANNNG                DEVELOPMENT                MONITORING           INFORMATION SYSTEM
World Bank 40054



-171-
46I  I
!§ } ,1Me    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i-f d~~~~I
LtJ    I
X~~~~i 



- 173 -
PHILIPPINES
HOUSING SECTOR PROJECt
National Housing Authority
Organization Chart
I.
6-ENER MAMGER                 OCFRC OF l
GftOUP   j  ~~~UG GRO        *RA         __K
Corporote     _....
PlonntnJ Otfice    _
Cotporate Opeatan   1g lrooes                              C      cll I
Sytems andic  1aSkForES            o
Servces     jStter ReatnROUP
Otitce of the 
Corporote Accutn_
rNC     rM F                POC' NICA                   PrO,  -: - OrT     |     COROATESPOTl
GP" ouP           g  X                   SERUCIC 6      . SGROU                         G  EIC    O  g
I Pncol rnning
& Developrnent Staff
_  Mtonogement                Development_              & Intormnolion      _      -ma Geeol emces
Deportment                Deposettprmenttion Depornt                            Deprment
TrIy    Lselitooo  l                                      W Humon Resorces
_   Troc#ury  |    >     ~~~Engineering      I     Developmnent   l      l    Development |
Deportrent                 Deporftient         |     Depa"rtmn            |    Depamortne
Deportment                    Adminsto'on   |                                     Deportmtent
rIN-NCJSE RJECTS            LOA CvVrN*|rwMEW              RVT SECtORI ZESE
GROllp                 P § ROJECT GROUP              G  ROUP                 ESAE G ROUP
TondooForeshore   §      r Mefto-Monilo   t        l    JointVenture            Esoengret|
Development            Proj   Dpttet               1pect    Pr epOrhtn  Deportmnent
IrDegat-Degoton              Reioa | | §|       [        Commeriobl & |
Ll Development   1    > Rgoo Fqcs| L                     ndustnal Estate |
Pfolect     I |L        Deportrnnt                  Departrnent
L] Special Projects             Resettlernent
Departrnent                Deportmnent
Sites ond                7  ask Forceeo
Services                   Squatter Rehflts
| Department                & Resettlement 
World Bonk-40053



- 174 -



