Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2974 PH
                     (Housing Sector Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
            NATIONAL HOME MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION
                      Dated September 1, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2974 PH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  1,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and NATIONAL
HOME MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION (NHMFC).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic  of  the  Philippines  (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  one  hundred sixty
million dollars ($160,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  provided  that  NHMFC  agree  to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and NHMFC,  the  part  of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
to NHMFC on the terms and  conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     (C)  by the Project Agreement  of  even date herewith between
the Bank and the National Housing Authority (NHA) (the NHA Project
Agreement) NHA has agreed to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank in respect of the Project as are set forth in the NHA Project
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS NHMFC, in consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. NHMFC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out  Parts  B, C (1)(b) and C (4) of
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative,  financial and housing practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Parts B, C (1)(b) and C  (4) of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. NHMFC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect   of  the  NHMFC  Project
Agreement and Parts B, C (1)(b) and C (4) of the Project.
     Section  2.04.  (a)   NHMFC   shall   duly  perform  all  its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, NHMFC shall  not take or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning  or  waiving  the   Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any
provision thereof.
     (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, sub-loans made
by NHMFC shall: (i) be  in  respect of sites and services, housing
units or upgrading of housing  units which had been constructed or
initially financed by  qualified  originators;  (ii)  be only made
to  benefit  households  below   the  seventieth  percentile;  and
(iii) comply with criteria agreed between the Bank and NHMFC.
     (c)  For the purposes of Section  2.04 (b) of this Agreement,
the  term  "seventieth  percentile"  shall  mean  households whose
incomes are at or  below  the  seventh  decile  of an urban income
curve as mutually agreed between  the Borrower, the Bank and NHMFC
for the purpose.
     Section 2.05. (a) NHMFC  shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  3
     (b)  NHMFC shall promptly  inform  the  Bank of any condition
with respect to itself which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the  progress  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the
purposes of Loan, or the  performance  by NHMFC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Ageement.
     Section 2.06. NHMFC shall duly  carry out the Commitment Line
Agreement with NHA.
     Section 2.07. NHMFC  shall  enter  into,  and duly carry out,
agreements  respectively  with  the  Borrower's  Government Social
Insurance System (GSIS);  Social  Security  System (SSS); and Home
Development Mutual Fund (HDMF),  setting  out arrangements for the
provision of funding by GSIS, SSS and HDMF to NHMFC.
     Section  2.08.  NHMFC   shall   take  appropriate  action  to
progressively raise  collection  of  receivables  owed  to it such
levels and within such time  periods  as  shall be agreed with the
Bank.
     Section  2.09.  NHMFC  shall  implement  an  adjustable  rate
mortgage policy with respect  to  that  portion of mortgages taken
out which are funded by variable interest rate financing.
     Section 2.10. NHMFC shall,  by  December 31, 1991, furnish to
the Bank for  comments  the  findings  and  recommendations of the
study undertaken under Part C (4) of the Project.
     Section 2.11. NHMFC  shall  take  all  necessary  action on a
timely basis to carry out  the NHMFC Institutional Action Plan and
the NHMFC Policy Statement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of NHMFC
     Section 3.01. NHMFC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and housing  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. NHMFC shall take  out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Bank,
for insurance against such risks  and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) NHMFC  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  NHMFC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
Page  4
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NHMFC shall earn, for each  of  its  fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending December 31,  1989,  a  positive  annual return on its
equity.
     (b)  Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, NHMFC shall,
on the basis of  forecasts  prepared  by NHMFC and satisfactory to
the Bank, review whether it  would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of:  (i)  the previous fiscal year;
(ii) such fiscal year;  and  (iii)  the next following fiscal year
and shall furnish to the Bank  the results of such review upon its
completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows  that  NHMFC would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a) for NHMFC's fiscal years
covered by such review,  NHMFC  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure or levels of  its  rates  and  fees  on future loans) in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  NHMFC shall, every six  months,  furnish to the Bank for
review and comment, a projection  of its financial performance for
the following five fiscal years.
     (e)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return on  equity shall be calculated by
               dividing  NHMFC's  net  operating  income  for  the
               fiscal year in question by  one  half of the sum of
               NHMFC equity (capital and retained earnings) at the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4%
               per annum of  the  average  current  gross value of
               NHMFC's fixed assets  in  operation, or other basis
               acceptable to the Bank,  but excluding interest and
               other charges on debt.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NHMFC shall take all such action as necessary to maintain:
        (i)   a debt to equity ratio of no more than 20:1;
        (ii)  an internal cash  generation  ratio  for each fiscal
              year at least equal to  1.1 times the projected debt
              service requirement; and
       (iii)  a positive effective spread for loans it finances of
              at least two  percent  (2%)  over  the cost of funds
              borrowed for such loans.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness of NHMFC
               maturing, partly or fully,   by its terms more than
               one year after the  date  on which it is originally
Page  5
               incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "internal  cash  generation"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of cash inflows from receipts and loan
                    repayments from all  sources related to opera-
                    tions  and  net   non-operating  cash  inflows
                    (including the beginning cash balance); and
               (B)  the sum  of  all  cash  outflows  for expenses
                    related  to  operations  including administra-
                    tion, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                    in lieu of taxes,  but excluding provision for
                    depreciation, other non cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating cash inflows" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  cash inflows  of  revenues  collected from all
                    sources   other   than    those   related   to
                    operations; and
               (B)  cash outflows  for  expenses,  including taxes
                    and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the
                    generation of the cash  inflows referred to in
                    (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  For the  purposes  of  this  Section, the projected
               debt service  requirement  referred  to  in Section
               4.03(a) (ii) of this Agreement  shall be based on a
               forecast prepared by  NHMFC  every six months which
               both the Bank and NHMFC accept as reasonable and as
               to which the Bank has notified NHMFC of its accept-
               ability, provided that no  event has occurred since
               such notification which  has,  or may reasonably be
               expected in the future  to have, a material adverse
               effect  on  the   financial   condition  or  future
               operating results of NHMFC.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.04. (a)  NHMFC  shall  review annually its interest
spread in each of its fiscal  years commencing January 1, 1989 and
furnish to the Bank for  comments,  before  June 30 of each fiscal
year, and exchange views with  the  Bank regarding, the results of
such review including appropriate recommendations for action.
     (b)  NHMFC   shall   take   necessary   steps   to  implement
recommendations agreed with  the  Bank  resulting  from the review
Page  6
under Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of NHMFC thereunder shall  terminate  on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify NHMFC thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For NHMFC:
          National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
          8th Floor, Allied Bank Center
          Ayala Avenue,
          Makati, Metro Manila
          Philippines
                                            Telex:
                                               762 3554 PH
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  NHMFC  may  be  taken  or executed by its
Chairman or such other  person  or  persons  as the Chairman shall
designate  in  writing,  and  NHMFC  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
Page  7
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    NATIONAL HOME MORTGAGE FINANCE CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
