Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2974 PH
                     (Housing Sector Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
                      Dated September 1, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  1,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and NATIONAL
HOUSING AUTHORITY (NHA).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic  of  the  Philippines  (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  one  hundred sixty
million dollars ($160,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, provided that NHA agrees to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by the Project Agreement  of  even date herewith between
the  Bank  and  the  National  Home  Mortgage  Finance Corporation
(NHMFC)  (the  NHMFC  Project  Agreement),  NHMFC  has  agreed  to
undertake such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  in  respect of the
Project as are set forth in the NHMFC Project Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS NHA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. NHA declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall  carry  out  Parts  B  and  C 1(a) of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and housing
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts B and C 1(a)  of  the  Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan  shall  be  governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. NHA shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the NHA Project Agreement
and Part C 1(a) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a)  NHA  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  NHA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition with
respect to itself which interferes  or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
Loan, or the  performance  by  NHA  of  its obligations under this
Agreement.
     Section 2.05. NHA  shall  take  all  necessary  action   on a
timely basis to carry  out  the  NHA Institutional Action Plan and
the NHA Policy Statement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of NHA
     Section 3.01. NHA shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and housing  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. NHA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
NHA practices.
Page  3
     Section 3.03. NHA shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  NHA  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  NHA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as  the Bank and NHA shall otherwise
agree, NHA shall earn,  for  each  of  its  fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31,  1992, a real return on equity,
consistent with applicable  standards  established by the Borrower
for government corporations and  taking  into account NHA's social
and economic development mandate, calculated as set out in the NHA
Policy Statement after excluding  from such calculation operations
financed with funds administered for  social purposes on behalf of
the Borrower.
     (b)  Before June 30 in each  of  its fiscal years, NHA shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared  by NHA and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would  meet  the requirements set forth in
paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of:  (i)  the  previous  fiscal year;
(ii) such fiscal year;  and  (iii)  the next following fiscal year
and shall furnish to the Bank  the results of such review upon its
completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  NHA  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for NHA's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  NHA  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its  prices)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)  NHA shall, every six  months,  furnish   to the Bank for
review and comment a  projection  of its financial performance for
the following five fiscal years.
     (e)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return on  equity shall be calculated by
               dividing NHA's net operating  income for the fiscal
               year in question by  one  half  of the sum of NHA's
               equity  (capital  and  retained  earnings)  at  the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
Page  4
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4%
               per annum of  the  average  current  gross value of
               NHA's fixed  assets  in  operation,  or other basis
               acceptable to the Bank,  but excluding interest and
               other charges on debt.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NHA shall take all such action as necessary to maintain:
         (i)   a debt to equity ratio of no more than 15:1; and
         (ii)  an internal cash  generation  ratio for each fiscal
               year at least equal to 1.1 times the projected debt
               service requirement.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of NHA
               maturing, partly or fully,   by its terms more than
               one year after the  date  on which it is originally
               incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "internal  cash  generation"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of cash inflows from receipts and Loan
                    repayments  from   all   sources   related  to
                    operations and net  non-operating cash inflows
                    (including the beginning cash balance); and
               (B)  the sum  of  all  cash  outflows  for expenses
                    related  to  operations  including administra-
                    tion, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                    in lieu of taxes,  but excluding provision for
                    depreciation, other non cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating cash inflows" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  cash inflows  of  revenues  collected from all
                    sources other  than  those  related  to opera-
                    tions; and
               (B)  cash outflows  for  expenses,  including taxes
                    and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the
                    generation of the cash  inflows referred to in
                    (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
Page  5
         (vi)  For the  purposes  of  this  Section, the projected
               debt service  requirement  referred  to  in Section
               4.03 (a)(ii) of this Agreement  shall be based on a
               forecast prepared  by  NHA  every  six months which
               both the Bank and  NHA  accept as reasonable and as
               to which the Bank  has  notified NHA of its accept-
               ability, provided that no  event has occurred since
               such notification which  has,  or may reasonably be
               expected in the future  to have, a material adverse
               effect  on  the   financial   condition  or  future
               operating results of NHA.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of NHA thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify NHA thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For NHA:
          National Housing Authority
Page  6
          Quezon Memorial Elliptical Road
          Diliman, Quezon City
          Metro Manila, Philippines
                                            Telex:
                                               722 22367 PH
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  NHA  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Chairman or such other  person  or  persons  as the Chairman shall
designate in writing, and NHA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
