Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2974 PH
                     (Housing Sector Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated September 1, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 1,  1988,  between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES   (the   Borrower)    and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts B, C  (1)(b)  and  C  (4)  of  the Project will be
carried out  by  the  National  Home  Mortgage Finance Corporation
(NHMFC) with  the  Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of such
assistance, the Borrower will  make  available  to NHMFC a part of
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  Parts B and C (1)(a) of  the Project will be carried out
by  the  National  Housing  Authority  (NHA)  with  the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to NHA a part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement;
Page  2
     (D)  the Bank has received a  letter  dated May 19, 1988 from
the Borrower including  its  Housing  Sector  Policy Statement and
Housing Sector Action Plan; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in   this  Agreement,  the  NHMFC  Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NHMFC and the
NHA Project Agreement of even  date  herewith between the Bank and
NHA;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "NHA"  means  the  National  Housing  Authority,  a body
corporate established by the Borrower's Presidential Decree Number
757 dated July 31, 1975;
     (b)  "NHMFC"  means  the   National   Home  Mortgage  Finance
Corporation,  a  body  corporate  established  by  the  Borrower's
Presidential Decree Number 1267 dated December 21, 1977;
     (c)  "NHA Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and NHA, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the NHA Project Agreement;
     (d)  "NHMFC Project Agreement"  means  the  agreement of even
date herewith between  the  Bank  and  NHMFC,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the NHMFC Project Agreement;
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  NHMFC pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "sub-loan"  means  a   loan   (including  credit  for  a
conditional sale) secured by real property, made or proposed to be
made by NHMFC to a sub-borrower  for financing part of the cost of
purchase by such sub-borrower of a housing site with services or a
housing unit or of  upgrading  housing owned by such sub-borrower,
and partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
     (g)  "sub-borrower" means a person to whom NHMFC has made, or
proposes to make, a sub-loan;
     (h)  "NHA Charter" means  the  Borrower's Presidential Decree
Number 757 dated July 31, 1975 as amended to date;
     (i)  "NHMFC Charter" means the Borrower's Presidential Decree
Number 1267 dated December 21, 1977 as amended to date;
     (j)  "NHA Policy  Statement"  means  the  statement of policy
adopted by the Board of Directors of NHA on February 19, 1988 read
together with the letter dated May 19, 1988 from NHA to the Bank;
Page  3
     (k)  "NHMFC  Policy   Statement"   means   the  NHMFC  Policy
Statement  and  Operating  Guidelines  adopted  by  the  Board  of
Directors of NHMFC on March 1,  1988 read together with the letter
dated May 18, 1988 from NHMFC to the Bank;
     (l)  "NHA Institutional Action  Plan" means the institutional
action plan of NHA dated May 18, 1988;
     (m)  "NHMFC Institutional  Action  Plan"  means  the institu-
tional action plan of NHMFC dated May 18, 1988;
     (n)  "qualified orginator"  means  any  entity satisfying the
criteria for qualified  originators  set  out  in the NHMFC Policy
Statement;
     (o)  "HUDCC" means Housing and Urban Development Coordinating
Council, an  inter-agency  coordinating  authority  established in
1986 pursuant to the  Borrower's  Executive  Order Number 90 dated
December 17, 1986;
     (p)  "Commitment Line  Agreement"  means  the Commitment Line
Agreement dated February 4, 1986 between NHMFC and NHA;
     (q)  "Housing  Sector  Action   Plan"  means  the  Borrower's
housing sector action plan attached to the Borrower's letter dated
May 19, 1988 referred to in  paragraph (D) of the Preamble to this
Agreement, read together with the  letter  dated May 19, 1988 from
the Chairman, HUDCC to the Bank;
     (r)  "Housing Sector Policy  Statement"  means the Borrower's
housing sector policy statement  attached to the Borrower's letter
dated May 19, 1988 referred to in paragraph (D) of the Preamble to
this Agreement read together  with  the  letter dated May 19, 1988
from the Chairman, HUDCC to the Bank;
     (s)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (t)  "Pesos" or the Sign "P"  means  pesos in the currency of
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred sixty million dollars ($160,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of the Philippines or  a  commercial  bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits  into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
Page  4
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out,  or cause to be
carried out, the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate  administrative, financial and housing
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. (a) Without  any limitation or restriction upon
any  of  its  other  obligations  under  the  Loan  Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause NHMFC and  NHA  to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the NHMFC  Project Agreement and the NHA Project
Agreement, respectively,  all  the  obligations  of  NHMFC and NHA
therein set forth, shall  take  or  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  NHMFC  and NHA,
respectively, to perform such  obligations,  and shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  $80,000,000 equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan to NHMFC under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between  the  Borrower  and  NHMFC under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank  which shall include the terms
and conditions set out in Schedule  5  hereto, to carry out Part B
of the Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  make available $5,000,000 equivalent
of the proceeds of  the  loan  to entities designated by agreement
between the Bank  and  HUDCC,  under  terms  and conditions agreed
between the Bank and  the  Borrower,  to  carry  out Part C of the
Project.
Page  5
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Parts B, C (1)(b) and C (4) of the Project shall be carried out by
NHFMC pursuant to Section 2.03  of the NHMFC Project Agreement and
in respect of Part C (1)(a) of the Project shall be carried out by
NHA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the NHA Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A and C (except Parts C (1)(a), C
(1)(b) and C (4)) of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower  responsible  for  carrying  out  said  Parts  of the
Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
Page  6
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during  such   fiscal   year,   together   with  the
              procedures and internal  controls  involved in their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that appropriate
arrangements are made  for  the  effective coordination of various
institutions in the housing sector by continuing to maintain HUDCC
(or its equivalent)  with adequate resources, staffing, powers and
responsibilities.
     Section 4.03.  Without  limiting  the  generality of Sections
3.01 and 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide or
cause to be provided on a  timely basis such resources as shall be
required by NHA for the  establishment of a roll-over construction
fund in NHA  to  finance  the  construction  of serviced sites and
housing units as well as the upgrading of housing units.
     Section 4.04.  The  Borrower  shall  take  necessary steps to
carry out the  Housing  Sector  Policy  Statement  and the Housing
Sector Action Plan on a timely basis.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  NHMFC  shall  have   failed   to   perform  any  of  its
obligations under the NHMFC Project Agreement;
     (b)  NHA shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the NHA Project Agreement;
     (c)  the NHMFC Charter  shall  have  been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of NHMFC  to  perform any of its obligations
under the NHMFC Project Agreement;
     (d)  the NHA  Charter  shall  have  been  amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of  NHA  to  perform  any of its obligations
under the NHA Project Agreement;
     (e)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action  for the dissolution and disestablish-
ment of NHMFC or  NHA  or  for  the  suspension of either of their
operations;
     (f)  an  event  shall  have  occurred  which  shall  make  it
improbable that the  Borrower  will  carry  out the Housing Sector
Policy  Statement  or  the   Housing   Sector  Action  Plan  or  a
significant part of either of them;
     (g)  the NHMFC Policy Statement or NHMFC Institutional Action
Plan or NHA  Policy  Statement  or  NHA  Institutional Action Plan
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, withdrawn or waived
so as to affect materially  and  adversely the ability of NHMFC or
NHA to perform any  of  their  obligations under the NHMFC Project
Agreement or NHA Project Agreement respectively;
     (h)  the  Borrower's   Executive   Order   Number   90  dated
December 17, 1986 shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
Page  7
ability of NHMFC or NHA to  perform any of their obligations under
the NHMFC Project Agreement or NHA Project Agreement respectively;
and
     (i)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that  NHMFC will be able to perform
its obligations under the NHMFC Project Agreement or that NHA will
be  able  to  perform  its   obligations  under  the  NHA  Project
Agreement.
Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h)  of  the  General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (h)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NHMFC;
     (b)  the Borrower  has  granted  all  approvals necessary for
implementing NHA's financial restructuring plan as agreed with the
Bank; and
     (c)  NHA has adopted a  liquidation  plan satisfactory to the
Bank in respect of  such  of  its  assets  as are to be liquidated
pursuant to the NHA Institutional Action Plan.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that  the  NHMFC   Project   Agreement   has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by NHMFC, and is legally binding upon NHMFC
in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the NHA Project  Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by NHA, and is  legally binding upon NHA in accordance
with its terms;
     (c)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower  and NHMFC, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and  NHMFC in accordance with its terms;
and
     (d)  that the conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan set
out in Section 6.01  (b)  and  (c)  above  have been duly complied
with.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Secretary  of  Finance  of the Borrower is
Page  8
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretary of Finance
          Department of Finance
          Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               SECFIN                          7550 CBP-PH
               Manila                          40268 CB-CONF
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
                   By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  For Part A:                                100% of foreign
Page  9
                                                expenditures
     (a)  construction       60,000,000
          materials
     (b)  petroleum and      15,000,000
          petroleum pro-
          ducts
(2)  Sub-loans made                             70% of amount
     by NHMFC under                             financed by
     Part B of the                              NHMFC in respect
     Project                                    of each sub-
                                                borrower
     (a)  in respect         30,000,000
          of facilities
          initially
          provided to
          sub-borrowers
          by NHA
     (b)  other              50,000,000
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Goods and                   1,250,000      100% of foreign
     vehicles                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)  Consultants'                3,750,000      100%
     services and
     training
                               ___________
          TOTAL               160,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement  percentage  for   Category  (2)  has  been
calculated in compliance  with  the  policy  of  the Bank that the
proceeds of the Loan shall not be disbursed on account of payments
for the acquisition of land;  on  this  basis, if the cost of land
represents more than 50% of  the  total cost to the concerned sub-
borrower of the site and  services  or housing unit financed under
any sub-loan, the Bank  may,  by  notice to the Borrower, decrease
the disbursement percentages  then  applicable  to Category (2) as
required to be consistent  with  the  aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
Page  10
          (i)  in respect of payments  made for expenditures prior
               to the date  of  this  Agreement, except that with-
               drawals, in an  aggregate  amount not exceeding the
               equivalent of $16,000,000,  may  be made in respect
               of Categories (1)  and  (2)  on account of payments
               made for expenditures  before  that  date but after
               August 1, 1987;
         (ii)  from Category (2) in  the  table  in paragraph 1 of
               this  Schedule   in   excess   of   the  amount  of
               $40,000,000 equivalent or  after  December 31, 1989
               unless the Bank shall have determined, by notice to
               the Borrower, that  the  Borrower has duly complied
               with the provisions  of  Section  2.09 of the NHMFC
               Project Agreement; and
        (iii)  in  respect  of   expenditures  for  petroleum  and
               petroleum products in an aggregate amount exceeding
               the equivalent of $15,000,000.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The main objective of the  Project is to assist in developing
an equitable,  viable  and  eventually  self-sustaining  system of
housing  production  and  finance  with  an  increasing  degree of
privatization. To this end,  the  Project  aims inter alia to: (a)
improve the  institutional  and  policy  framework  of the housing
sector; (b)  achieve  greater  efficiency  in  the  use  of public
resources in housing;  (c)  redirect  new  housing  stock to lower
income groups and expand access of such groups to housing finance;
(d) strengthen financial and risk management capabilities, as well
as  monitoring  of  the   housing  sector;  (e)  strengthen  NHA's
financial efficiency so that it may more effectively carry out its
mandate to serve  the  housing  needs  of  marginal and low income
families principally in  urban  areas;  (f)  improve the operating
environment for the private sector domestic construction industry;
and (g) stimulate the national economy and generate employment.
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time:
Part A
     Support  to  the   construction   industry  by  provision  of
designated  imported  construction   materials  required  for  the
housing sector.
Part B
     Provision of financial assistance  to individuals of selected
lower income groups for the purchase of serviced sites and housing
units as well as for upgrading units.
Part C
1.   Provision  of  technical   assistance,  training,  equipment,
vehicles  and  consultants'  services  for  the  establishment and
strengthening  of  the  operations   and  accounting  systems  of:
(a) NHA; (b) NHMFC; and (c) the secretariat of HUDCC.
2.   Establishment  of  a  management  information  system  and  a
sectoral data base for  the  housing  sector  and carrying out key
studies  for  assisting  the   Borrower   in  the  management  and
development of its housing sector.
3.   Carrying out of a study  on critical constraints facing small
private builders and contractors in the housing sector.
4.   Carrying out of a study on NHMFC's future funding operations.
Page  11
5.   Preparation of future Bank-assisted projects.
                           *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
February 15, 1994                                 2,920,000
August 15, 1994                                   3,035,000
February 15, 1995                                 3,150,000
August 15, 1995                                   3,270,000
February 15, 1996                                 3,400,000
August 15, 1996                                   3,530,000
February 15, 1997                                 3,665,000
August 15, 1997                                   3,805,000
February 15, 1998                                 3,955,000
August 15, 1998                                   4,105,000
February 15, 1999                                 4,265,000
August 15, 1999                                   4,430,000
February 15, 2000                                 4,600,000
August 15, 2000                                   4,780,000
February 15, 2001                                 4,960,000
August 15, 2001                                   5,155,000
February 15, 2002                                 5,355,000
August 15, 2002                                   5,560,000
February 15, 2003                                 5,775,000
August 15, 2003                                   5,995,000
February 15, 2004                                 6,230,000
August 15, 2004                                   6,470,000
February 15, 2005                                 6,720,000
August 15, 2005                                   6,980,000
February 15, 2006                                 7,245,000
August 15, 2006                                   7,525,000
February 15, 2007                                 7,815,000
August 15, 2007                                   8,120,000
February 15, 2008                                 8,435,000
August 15, 2008                                   8,750,000
                                                ____________
      TOTAL                                     160,000,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
Page  12
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to paragraph 2  below  of  this  Part A and except as
provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in  accordance  with  procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for the procurement  of  goods  under Part A of the
Project estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of $5,000,000 or more
each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
          Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to the prior approval  of  the Bank, commonly  traded
commodities under Part A  of  the  Project may be procured through
organized international  commodity  markets  or  other channels of
competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods under Part  A of the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each may be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for goods and works under Part B of the Project may
be awarded on the  basis  of  the normal procurement procedures of
the purchaser of such goods and works.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the  Loan  Account  in  respect  of  such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Page  13
2.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part B of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as  the  Bank  may  reasonably  request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
3.   Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2 of
Part C of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be
made out of the  proceeds  of  the  Special Account, the copies of
such contract  or  the  documentation  and  the  information to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant  to  the provisions of paragraphs 1
or 2 of Part C  of  this  Schedule,  as  the case may be, shall be
furnished to the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
4.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Part
C of this Schedule  shall  not  apply  to  contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditures.
5.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         On-lending Terms
I.   Subsidiary Loan From Borrower to NHMFC
     Interest Rate:                as agreed between the Borrower
                                   and the Bank
     Amortization Period:          20 years, including a grace
                                   period of 5 years
     Foreign Exchange Risk:        to be borne by the Borrower
II.  Relending by NHMFC to Sub-borrowers
     NHMFC will refinance 70% or less of the cost to the eligible
     sub-borrower of the sites and services or housing units
     received by such sub-borrower.
     Interest Rate:                as agreed between the Borrower,
                                   the Bank and NHMFC which shall
                                   be at a level adequate to
                                   provide NHMFC a spread of at
                                   least two percent over the cost
                                   of all funds obtained by NHMFC.
     Amortization Period:          up to 25 years
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  14
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories 1, 2, 3
and 4 set forth in the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible  Categories  for the Project, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  15
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for the Project,  shall  follow  such procedures as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
