      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020133


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P120631                                         KM-Emergency Crises Response Project

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                               Additional Financing
 Comoros                                         Social Protection & Labor                         P133755



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-H5720,IDA-H8320                                  30-Jun-2014                                                               8,310,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  01-Jun-2010                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                             8,310,000.00                                                         0.00

  Revised Commitment                                              8,307,165.80                                                         0.00

  Actual                                                          8,384,723.53                                                         0.00




 Sector(s)
 Other social services(27%):Public administration- Other social services(19%):General water, sanitation and flood protection
 sector(18%):General education sector(18%):General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector(18%)

 Theme(s)
 Global food crisis response(13%):Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care Services(13%):Rural services and
 infrastructure(46%):Participation and civic engagement(28%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            Judyth L. Twigg                     Joy Behrens                          IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives


     The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 2, page 5) and in the Emergency Project Paper (page
     4), prepared in lieu of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was:
     “To increase access to short-term employment and to basic social and economic services in areas affected by the crises, both
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



      global and internally-generated.”




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     There were three components.
     Component One: Social Safety Net (Cash-for-Work). Estimated cost at appraisal US$1.40 million. Additional Financing Estimate
     US$1.20 million. With this, the cumulative total estimated cost for this component was US$2.60 million. Actual cost at closure US$2.20
     million. This component was to finance a cash-for work program aimed at increasing access to short-term employment in the targeted
     areas most seriously affected by the succession of crises.The targeting mechanism was to be based on a three-stage process: (i)
     Allocation of funds across the three islands using an inter-island formula agreed between the implementing agency and the authorities and
     approved by the Bank; (ii) Identification of communities most affected by the succession of crises through a transparent process of
     consultation with local authorities and public disclosure at the level of each island; and (iii) selection by communities themselves of the
     households most affected by the crises and public disclosure of beneficiaries to ensure transparency and avoid elite capture. Labor-
     intensive activities (including street cleaning, basic road maintenance and light rehabilitation of feeder roads, soil erosion
     prevention, garbage collection and so on) were to be undertaken in the selected areas. Activities in this sub-component also were to
     include provision of training to the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) that were selected to implement the Cash-for-Work sub-
     projects.
     Component Two: Community-Driven Basic Development: Estimated cost at appraisal US$2.90 million. Additional Financing Estimate
     US$1.20 million. With this, the cumulative estimated cost for this component was US$4.10. Actual Cost at closure US$4.25 million. This
     component was to provide capacity building support for social capital formation in the targeted communities. The targeting mechanism
     was to include: (i) Allocation of funds allocated across the three islands using the same inter-island formula (described above); and (ii)
     Identification of the communities most affected by the crises through a transparent process of consultation with local authorities. Activities
     in this component were to include financing of community-based infrastructure sub projects (including construction of schools and
     classrooms, small scale water supply, sanitation and water retention systems, rehabilitation of rural feeder roads and social erosion
     activities), preparation of Local Development plans, and undertaking of information and educational campaigns.
     Component Three: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation Audits: Estimated cost at appraisal US$1.00 million. Additional
     Financing Estimate US$0.60 million. With this, the cumulative estimated cost for this component was US$1.60 million. Actual Cost at
     Closure US$1.85 million. This component was to provide technical assistance support to the implementing agency. Activities were to
     include financing their operating costs (such as salaries/fees, travel expenditures), training for the staff, and advisory services for preparing
     technical audits, Monitoring and Evaluations (M&E) assessments (including implementation of a M&E system), and outreach and
     communication activities.
     Additional financing was approved for the project in March, 2013. There was a scaling up of the project activities that were being
     implemented to improve the project's development effectiveness. More specifically, in areas affected by the crises, the Cash-for-Work
     program was expanded to a total of 11,000 individuals (as compared to the original target of 5,600), and at least 15 basic facilities at the
     community level were to be rehabilitated to help restore access to basic social and economic services. Given that the project development
     objective remained unchanged and outcome targets were only revised upwards, IEG has chosen not to undertake a split evaluation as the
     changes did not make a difference to the achievement of the project against the project development objective.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: Estimated cost at appraisal US$5.30 million. Additional Financing Estimate US$3.00 million. With this, the cumulative
     project cost was US$8.30 million. Actual cost at closure US$8.10 million. The actual costs of component one were slightly lower and of
     component two and three slightly higher than estimated. The task team leader clarified that the costs of component two were higher to
     accommodate a request from the government to assist in alleviating the impact of catastrophic floods during the implementation phase in
     early 2012, which led to a reallocation of funds from component one to component two activities. The costs of component three activities
     were higher than estimated due to a combination of factors, including the higher than expected transport costs of reaching some of the
     targeted communities and a general increase in price of all inputs (particularly transportation) in the wake of the global economic crisis.
     Project Financing: The project was financed by an IDA grant. Appraisal estimate US$5.30 million. Additional Financing of US$3.00
     million. With this, the cumulative estimated IDA grant for the project US$8.30 million. Amount disbursed at closure: US$8.10 million.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



    There was parallel financing for complementary activities from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Japan Social Development Fund
    (JSDF), the European Commission (EC), the French bilateral agency (Agence Francaise de Developpement), and the African
    Development Bank (AfDB).
    Borrower Contribution: Borrower contribution came from the communities. At appraisal, their contribution was estimated at US$0.25
    million, and their contribution at closure was more than planned at US$0.30 million.
    Dates: Following the Additional Financing for the project in March 2013, the project closing date was extended by a year from June 30,
    2014 to June 30, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project development objective continues to be relevant to the government strategy. The Union of the Comoros (hereafter referred to as
   Comoros) is a small, post-conflict country, consisting of three islands. The economic features of the country
   include geographic isolation, limited resources, and reliance on subsistence agriculture and fishing. The foreign trade features
   include dependence on food imports and foreign exchange earnings from a narrow export base and from remittances from workers employed
   overseas (representing about a fifth of GDP). These factors rendered the economy vulnerable to adverse external shocks. In the years before
   appraisal in 2007, internally-generated political crisis had resulted in deterioration of the social and economic infrastructure of the
   country. Subsequently there was a series of adverse external shocks, including increase in the price of food in mid 2008, an oil price crisis in
   late 2008 that affected traditional fishing, and repercussions from the recent global financial and economic crisis, reflected through reduction in
   remittances from Europe (the main origin of remittances to Comoros), reduction of foreign direct Investment in tourism related activities (from
   major investors in the Gulf states), and fall in export earnings (due to the contraction in aggregate demand from developed countries). The
   poorest segments of the population were particularly hit by the succession of crises. The project objective of financing a Cash-for-Work
   program to provide short-term employment, plus a community-driven development component to restore basic social and economic services in
   areas most affected by the crises, was highly relevant in the country context. The related objectives of reducing poverty and promoting shared
   prosperity were highlighted in the government's Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (2009). The project objectives were consistent with
   the Government's draft of its Social Protection Policy (2014), which is in process of being finalized. This policy highlighted the importance
   of providing employment through Cash-for-Work and supporting the building of productive assets to increase agricultural productivity and
   promote environmental protection.
   The project development objective continues to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Comoros. At the appraisal stage, the project objective was
   consistent with the Bank's Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for the period from 2010 to 2012. The objectives of the ISN were: (I) to reduce
   social vulnerability. and (ii) to build state capacity and accountability. The ISN also highlighted the impacts of the global economic crisis
   and effects of high food prices on the most vulnerable groups in the country and explicitly identified emergency crises response as an
   important instrument to provide rapid and targeted support to the affected households. The objective of reducing social vulnerability was
   consistent with one of the two pillars of the Bank's current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the fiscal years 2014-2017.




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The project design had two tested interventions: Cash-for-Work program and community-based basic infrastructure. The PAD (pages 23-24)
   contains a convincing results chain plausibly linking the project's anticipated activities, outputs, and expected outcomes, and therefore with
   progress towards achievement of its development activities. The intended outcomes were measurable. For instance, the targeting mechanism
   used for identifying communities and households could be expected to contribute to implementing the Cash-for-Work program in areas most
   affected by the crises. The targeting mechanism in conjunction with capacity building support for social capital formation could be expected to
   contribute to developing community-based development activities in areas most affected by the crises.The combination of these activities could
   be expected to contribute to the intended project development outcomes of increasing access to short term employment and providing access
   to basic social and economic services in areas affected by the crisis. These elements of design would be expected both to provide emergency
   response and to lay the foundation for development oriented activities. The project design appropriately used an experienced and semi-
   autonomous agency to implement the project in view of the weak implementation capacity of the government to respond effectively in situations
   of crises (discussed in Section 9b).
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To increase access to short-term employment in areas affected by the crises, both global and internally-generated.

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • A total of 246 Cash-for-Work sub-projects were implemented in the communities of the three islands at project closure. The subprojects
        included development of feeder roads and small drainage works, works developing public spaces (terracing, planting trees), agricultural
        development, and environmental protection works.
        • 309,900 person days of employment were created (ICR, page 42).
        • 39 NGOs were recruited, and capacity building support was provided to the NGOs (ICR, page 41).
        • 32 local community development plans were developed (ICR, page 41).
        • 69 basic infrastructure works were created. The works included construction of schools and classrooms, water works, rehabilitation of
        rural tracks, and building of a dam and hoisting ramp.
        • One assessment of Cash-for-Work was completed as targeted (ICR, page 8). The assessment of the program confirmed that the
        targeting process was effective in selecting poor households affected by the crises, the works had been satisfactorily executed, and
        beneficiaries had effectively received the payment for 25 days of work at a daily wage of KMF 2,000, as promised.


    Outcomes:

        • 12,343 people benefitted from the Cash-for-Work program at project closure. This exceeded both the original target (5600) and the
        revised target (11000).
        • 63% of the beneficiaries were women. This exceeded the original and revised target of 40%.


    A beneficiary assessment was conducted by the implementing agency in 2012 to receive feedback from beneficiaries of the Cash-for-Work
    activities. The assessment was conducted on the three islands of the Union and entailed focus group discussions of between five to ten
    persons in 28 communities and with 215 respondents. In these communities, 33 Cash-for-Works had been implemented, providing income
    opportunities for 1,650 beneficiaries. The assessment revealed that beneficiary households were large, with five children on
    average. Agriculture and family support (from remittances) had hitherto been the main sources of income, and for many of the participants,
    this was the first paid work in their lives. Every respondent confirmed having received cash of KMF 50,000. Over three-quarters of the
    income received was spent on food, with the balance on education (about 10%), health (about 10%), and other expenses (7%). Beneficiaries
    regretted that the duration of the work was short (25 days) and would have liked for work to be available for a longer period, to be able to
    save money and invest in a small business or income generating activity. The assessment confirmed that poor and distressed families
    benefited from the program and that it made an impact on their lives, at least temporarily, particularly with regard to their food consumption.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)




 Objective 2

 Objective
 To increase access to basic social and economic services in areas affected by the crisis, both global and internally-generated.

 Rationale
 Outputs:

    • 246 social protection sub-projects were completed as compared to the original target of 240.
    • 54 community-based infrastructure sub-projects were completed at project closure, as compared to the revised and original targets of 48
    and 32 respectively. 92.5% of these sub-projects were properly maintained one year after completion, as compared to the original and
    revised targets of 90%.
    • 87 classrooms were built/rehabilitated at the primary level at project closure. This exceeded the revised and original targets of 60 and 54
    respectively.
    • 18 improved community water points were constructed or rehabilitated, as compared to the revised and original targets of nine and eight
    respectively.
    • 10.44 km of rural roads were rehabilitated, as compared to the revised target of 14. There were no original targets for this indicator.
    • 32 community development plans were completed as per the revised target, and as compared to the original target of three.
    • The operating ratio of the implementing agency was 19.23% at project closure, as compared to the target of 18%. The operating ratio
    was defined as the ratio of the sum of the cumulative operating costs (travel expenditures and other travel related allowances, equipment
    rental and maintenance, vehicle operation, maintenance and repair, office rental and maintenance, materials and supplies) divided by
    cumulative disbursement as of the beginning of the project. The ICR (page 8) notes that the operating ratio was slightly higher than initially
    targeted due to unforeseen public sector electricity cuts that had be replaced by expensive fuel generators.
    • Two audits of community-based sub-projects were completed, as compared to the target of one.


 Outcomes:

    • School enrollment in the schools that were refurbished under the the project was 3686 at project closure. This was as compared to the
    revised and original targets of 3200 and 2000 respectively.
    • The number of people in rural areas with access to improved water services was 10815 at project closure, as compared to the revised
    and original targets of 11200 and 2000 respectively.
    • The number of people who had access to improved roads at project closure was 41029 as compared to the original target of 28000 (the
    target for this indicator was not revised when additional financing was approved for the project).


 The total number of beneficiaries (including people who benefited from the Cash-for-Work program and from the community-based
 infrastructure program) was 67926. This exceeded both the revised and original targets of 53400 and 12000 respectively.


 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

Economic Analysis
The PAD (page 11) noted that there was no economic or financial assessment of the project at appraisal, as the sub-projects that were to be
financed were not known a priori as they were demand-driven. Further, although the costs of sub-projects under the Cash-for-Work program
were known (as they consisted mainly of cash payments to beneficiaries), the benefits of alleviating immediate hardships (and possibly
starvation) were not readily quantifiable. The PAD, however, noted that the implementing agency's method for targeting community-managed
development and poor households would ensure efficiency. The beneficiary survey conducted at project closure indicated that some of the
poorest segments of the society (women with large households) benefited from the program, and that income from the Cash-for Work program
was spent mainly on food. About three-quarters of the funding for Cash-for-Work was transferred to the beneficiaries (with the balance going to
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



meet the cost of materials, equipment and so on). This ratio compares favorably with Cash-for-Work programs in other countries (for example,
60% in India's Employment Guarantee Scheme).
There was no economic or financial analysis conducted specifically for this project at closure. The ICR cites an economic analysis prepared in
2011 for another Bank financed project (Comoros Services Support project) that computed the rates of return for sub-projects that were
identical to the ones implemented in this project, under Component Two activities (such as rehabilitation of rural roads, improvements in small
scale water supply systems and construction of schools and classrooms). This analysis indicated a rate of return of 53.7 percent for rural roads
activities (with benefits assumed to come from creation of jobs) and a rate of return of 27.6 percent for activities associated with water supply
systems (with benefits assumed to come from impact on health and reduction of health care costs). The prior study also indicated that school
construction activities in remote villages led to travel time savings, and that this aided in increasing attendance in schools. It is unclear why the
ICR did not undertake an analysis specifically for this project.
The Emergency Project Paper (page 4) notes that the average wage rate to be paid for the Cash-for-Work program was to be below the market
wage rate, to prevent hiring people who are already employed elsewhere. However, the ICR does not provide details on the methodology
followed for computing the average wage rate.
Administrative and Operational Issues
Although there was no quantitative assessment of benefits specifically for this project, the methods used for community-managed development
and for targeting poor households achieved efficiency and high rates of return and there are indications of implementation efficiency.
Although project management costs exceeded appraisal estimates, these were due to a combination of factors such as higher than expected
transport costs associated with reaching targeted communities in remote areas and a general increase in input costs in the wake of the global
economic crisis. In response to a request from the government to assist in alleviating the impacts of catastrophic floods, the project reallocated
funds between components, and this resulted in an increase in project coverage to areas not initially targeted by the project, but which qualified
for assistance as a result of the new emergency.




.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              0
    Appraisal                                                               0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              0
    ICR Estimate                                                            0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project's objectives were highly relevant to the country conditions at the time of appraisal and remain relevant to both the government and
the Bank strategy for Comoros. Relevance of design is rated as Substantial given the relevant results chain and links between project activities,
their outputs and the intended outcomes. Achievement of the two objectives, to provide access to short term employment and to provide basic
social and economic services, in areas affected by the crises, both global and internally-generated, is rated as Substantial. All outcome
targets were either realized or surpassed. Efficiency was rated as Substantial. Although there were no quantitative assessment of benefits
specifically for this project, the methods used for community-managed development and for targeting households achieved efficiency and high
rates of return and there are indications of implementation efficiency.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)




a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

There is a Modest risk that ongoing benefits from the community-based basic infrastructure development may not be
sustained. The communities contributed more than planned for constructing these assets in the case of this project and also have taken
responsibility for maintaining these assets, in view of the lack of a local government structure with self-financing mechanisms. The communities
may not be able to get the required resources for the periodic maintenance needs of these community-driven basic infrastructure assets in the
coming years.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     This project was prepared based on lessons learned from the implementation of a similar Cash-for-Work program in Madagascar and from
     implementing an ongoing Bank-financed project in Comoros (Services Support project) that included community development and social
     protection activities. The processing of the project was accelerated and consistent with the more flexible procedures provided under OP/BP
     8.00 guidelines for expediting emergency operations. Given that the ongoing operation in Comoros had shown the administrative capacity
     of the government to be weak to respond effectively in times of crisis, the project design assigned the responsibility for implementing the
     project to a semi-autonomous agency with a decentralized structure on all islands and demonstrated expertise in implementing community-
     based projects (discussed in Section 9b). The project's effectiveness was made contingent on the updating of the implementing agency's
     existing operational manuals, and this enabled the project to commence as soon as the funds became available. Given that it was a project
     aimed at addressing emergency conditions, the design envisaged close supervision, with at least two supervision missions per annum,
     each mission including a procurement and financial management specialist, and a safeguard specialist at least once a year. Several risks
     were identified at appraisal (including high risk associated with political instability), and risk mitigation measures were incorporated (such as
     entrusting the responsibility for implementing the project to an semi-autonomous agency). The overall risk was rated as Substantial.
     However, there were design shortcomings. The design underestimated the lack of capacity of the implementing agency, and this was
     reflected through the poor technical design of some of the sub-projects in the early years of the project. As discussed in Section 5, the ICR
     provides no details on the methodology followed in computing the average wage rate for the Cash-for-Work Program.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Bank supervision missions took place regularly (about twice a year). The continuity of leadership (with the same Task Team Leader at the
     preparation stage and at the implementation stage) contributed to a good understanding of the local context and familiarity with key
     stakeholders and institutions (ICR, page 41). During preparation, the team engaged both with the government and with other donors, and
     this aided in coordination of interventions.The supervision team, which included different specialists (including financial management
     specialists, a procurement specialist, and environmental and social safeguard specialists), was proactive, identified problems, and provided
     the required technical support to resolve initial technical and capacity issues. The recommendations made by the supervision team enabled
     the implementing agency to improve quality management and service delivery. In response to a request from the government to assist in
     alleviating the impacts of catastrophic floods in early 2012, the team reallocated funds from the Cash-for-Work component to the
     community-based basic infrastructure component, and this extended project coverage in areas not initially targeted by the project but which
     qualified for assistance as a result of the new emergency. The team also mobilized additional resources to the project through Additional
     Financing, and this contributed to strengthening the project activities without changing the original purpose of the project (ICR, page 48).
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)




  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The government commitment through the life of the project was demonstrated in several ways. The government quickly processed the
  project and Additional Financing, and this aided in project's effectiveness. There was regular follow up by the government through
  participation in mission meetings. The government provided the implementing agency with the necessary support and autonomy, and this
  aided in the implementation of project activities. The commitment of the government was further demonstrated by the visits of the
  President to some project sites. Finally, the communities in the three islands contributed more than planned for project activities.



  Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The Fonds d'Appui ou Development Comunautaire (FADC) was responsible for implementing the project. This agency was created in
  1993 to contribute to community development. Although FADC was under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance and the General
  Planning Commission, it had semi-autonomous status with administrative and financial independence and oversight from its Board
  (which included representatives from the private sector, civil society, and beneficiaries). FADC had implemented several community-
  based social and economic projects and had an accomplished record of executing such projects. It was also responsible for
  implementing the ongoing Bank-financed Social Safety Net project in Comoros. With the central office of the agency headed by a
  national Executive Director located in the capital of Comoros (Moroni) and a regional executive director on all three islands, the agency
  had the required management, staffing, administrative capacity and decentralized structure to implement the project in the three islands
  under emergency conditions. The agency was highly regarded by the rural communities, development partners, and central
  government. It was in full compliance with the loan covenants.
  FADC's effective leadership and its staff were skilled in Bank procedures. They provided capacity building support to the NGOs,
  consultants, and communities, and all of these factors aided in the implementation of the project. Initial design problems, specifically with
  the engineering firms and NGOs who were charged with design and procurement for sub-projects, were effectively addressed by the
  FADC with assistance from the Bank's supervision missions (ICR, page 15). During the implementation phase, FADC was able to
  attract other sources of financing including from the French Bilateral Agency and from the Union and the Islands, and these were used
  by the agency to target additional poor communities that were not reached by this project (ICR, page 17).



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Highly Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  The five outcome indicators - providing manual labor to specified number of people in areas affected by the global economic
  crisis, school enrollment in areas where the schools had been built or rehabilitated, the number of people with access to improved water
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



   sources and roads, and the number of direct beneficiaries (including 40% of women beneficiaries) - were appropriate for monitoring
   progress toward the project development outcome.
   The implementing agency had a Monitoring and Evaluation System with modules on: (i) management of beneficiary requests from the
   time of receipt until the completion of works; (ii) management of all documents related to implementation of sub-projects; (iii)
   management of the annual work program; (iv) management of contracts with local consulting firms and NGOs; (v) preparation of monthly
   and quarterly reports; and (vi) monitoring performance of outcome and intermediate outcome indicators. The agency's Management
   Information System was linked to its accounting system.
   Evaluation of project implementation was to be covered by an assessment of the Cash-for-Work component and two technical audits of
   the community based basic infrastructure component.




b. M&E Implementation
   The M&E system was upgraded under the project. The upgraded system was used for regular reporting of results indicators right from the
   beginning of the project. Each report consisted of a summary of the activities undertaken during the previous six months and their physical
   and financial achievements, the status of the result indicators, and a plan for the next six months. Apart from the routine monitoring activities,
   an assessment of the Cash-for-Work component and two technical audits covering the community-based basic infrastructure component were
   conducted by external consultants, as planned.




c. M&E Utilization
   During implementation, the M&E system made it possible to address lagging performance by one of the islands at the start of the project and
   also highlight and address the initial slow progress of the community-based basic infrastructure component. These issues were eventually
   rectified by the implementing agency.
   The Task Team Leader clarified that the project's M&E system was being used for a subsequent project (Social Safety Net project) that
   commenced on July 4, 2015, and that with this new project, the system is to be upgraded further to automatically link physical progress with
   procurement and financial management.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as Category B under Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). One other safeguard policy was triggered:
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Any Cash-for-Work sub-project that triggered any safeguard policy other than Environmental
   Assessment, and any community-based sub projects that triggered any safeguard policy other than Environmental Assessment and
   Involuntary Resettlement, were not eligible for funding.
   An Environmental and Social Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared, and social and environmental
   operational guidelines that were in accordance with Bank policies were prepared by the government and publicly disclosed at the appraisal
   stage. During the implementation stage, the implementing agency appointed a safeguards specialist to ensure implementation of the
   frameworks. The ICR (page 18) notes that at closure the project complied with the safeguards that were triggered, and that there was no
   resettlement as a result of project activities.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. A Financial Management Assessment was conducted at the appraisal stage to determine whether the
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



   implementing agency had the financial management systems and required capacity to implement the project. The assessment indicated that
   although the project would be implemented in a high risk environment owing to the fragile political environment and weak governance
   capacity, the implementing agency's legal and institutional framework were deemed to be adequate, and additional measures such as
   updating the financial and administration manuals were undertaken at the appraisal stage (PAD, page 28).
   The financial management of the implementing agency was deemed to be satisfactory during the project implementation phase (ICR, page
   18). Audit reports were conducted annually by qualified external auditors in compliance with Bank rules. Interim Financial Reports were
   submitted in a timely fashion, and there was no violation of governance principles or any acts of corruption through the life of the project.
   Procurement: The implementing agency's performance with respect to handling procurement aspects was deemed to be satisfactory (ICR,
   page 18). Although the procurement risk was rated as High due to the country environment, the implementing agency continued to
   demonstrate ability to implement procurement activities according to plan and follow up on the recommendations of post-procurement
   reviews. The implementing agency, in addition to using local contracting firms for small-scale social and economic infrastructure projects,
   also successfully contracted NGOs for implementing the Cash-for-Work program.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                              ---
                                                                                                                Project design initially
                                                                                                                underestimated the lack of
                                                                                                                capacity of the implementing
                                                                                                                agency, and this was reflected
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                                through the poor technical
                                                                                                                design of some of the sub-
                                                                                                                projects in the early years of the
                                                                                                                project.
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR (pages 28-29) draws the following main lessons from the experience of implementing this project.
(1) Modified Cash-for-Work activities can be considered even in nonemergency situations, for disadvantaged communities within
countries that are poorly served by social and economic infrastructure. Given the challenges associated with reaching the poorest
households in such communities, such programs may help in long term development, if a technically robust roster of public works activities
selected by communities is implemented through close supervision by intermediaries (engineering consultants and contractors) as done in the
case of this project. Building a savings component into the program could also be considered for further enhancing development benefits.
(2) Creating assets through community managed development can be a viable option in countries where the government does not
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KM-Emergency Crises Response Project(P120631)



assume responsibility for providing basic infrastructure in poor communities. The experience of this project demonstrates that
community-managed development is useful for creating assets that are of high priority to communities.
(3) Including indicators related to gender can be useful for targeting women as beneficiaries. In the case of this project, specific inclusion
of indicators relating to women helped to ensure that the weakest and most vulnerable households were included and benefited from the project.
(4). An implementing agency that is experienced in handling emergency projects is a good resource in countries prone to external and
internal shocks. While in the case of this project, the semi-autonomous status of the implementing agency helped, some kind of representation
of beneficiary communities on the Board of the implementing agency may be helpful, especially in difficult economic and political circumstances.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides a clear description of the implementation progress of the project throughout its lifetime. It provides sufficient background
for understanding the country context. The ICR is outcome-driven and the description of M&E is clear. The ICR also provides a detailed
description of the implementing agency.
The ICR could have provided more details on the methodology followed in computing the average wage rate for the Cash-for-Work
program. In the absence of such details, it is difficult to judge whether the average wage rate paid for the beneficiaries of the program
was reasonable compared to the existing market wage rate during the project implementation phase. Also, the ICR does not present very
clearly the outputs by Component, making it difficult to determine what the project actually did (Annex 2, page 32). The summary of the
Borrower's ICR is much more useful in this area.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
