FILE         COPY                       I)Ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2179-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
December 6, 1977
This document has  retricted dIstrIbouton and mny be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not oherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -     Pesos (I)
p 1.00           -     US$0.135
US$1.00          -     P 7.40
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BFD     -    Bureau of Forestry Development
BPI     -    Bureau of Plant Industry
CRC     -    Cellophil Resources Corporation
DA      -    Department of Agriculture
DBP     -    Development Bank of the Philippines
DNR     -    Department of Natural Resources
PCARR   -    Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources
Research
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:    Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), Department of
Agriculture (DA), Department of Natural Resources (DNR),
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI), and the Philippine Council
for Agricultural Resources Research (PCARR).
Amount:            US$8 million equivalent
Terms:            The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years with an interest rate of _ % p.a.
Relending Terms:  The Government would relend $4.3 million from the proceeds
of the loan to DBP on the same terms as those of the Bank
loan.
Project
Description:    The project seeks to assist the Government in developing
more effective programs of reforestation and of tree
farming by farmers with small and medium sized holdings.
The reforestation component of the project is designed to
assist the Government in developing 3,000 ha of much needed
pine plantations and in learning to deal more effectively
with the problem of shifting cultivation and grazing in
forest reserves. The tree farming component would provide
credit and technical services to tree farmers to assist
them in establishing commercially viable tree farms on
marginal agricultural lands. Almost all the beneficiaries
under the smallholder tree farming component would be
farmers whose present incomes are lower than the absolute
poverty level; the project would help to double their
incomes in four to eight years. The main risks relate to
the reforestation component of the project and include the
need for adequate protection of plantation trees, possible
resettlement of people in the project areas, and the
responsiveness of the tree species planted to local growing
conditions; the project has been designed to minimize these
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Estimated Cost:/a
Local         Foreign          Total
…------ US$ Million ----------
Smallholder tree farming                    7.1            1.0             8.1
Plantation development                      2.0            1.1             3.1
Forestry Project Development Unit           0.4            0.1             0.5
Agriculture Project Preparation Unit        0.4            0.1             0.5
Wood Industries Study                       0.3            0.5             0.8
Total base cost                       10.2            2.8            13.0
Physical contingencies                      0.2            0.1             0.3
Price contingencies                         2.0            0.7             2.7
Total project cost                    12.5            3.5            16.0
Financing Plan:/a
Beneficiaries    Government     IBRD     Total
… ------------- US$ Million ---
Smallholder tree farming                 0.6             4.7          4.6      10.0
Plantation development                    -              2.3          2.1       4.4
Forestry Project Development Unit         -              0.1          0.4       0.5
Wood Industries Study                     -              0.1          0.6       0.7
Agriculture Project Preparation
Unit                                    -              0.1          0.4      0.5
Total project financing            0.6              7.4         8.0      16.0
Estimated
Disbursements:        The loan would be committed over 4 years and disbursed over
5-3/4 years.
Fiscal Year             Annual            Cumulative
…____--- US$ '000      …
1978                    70                    70
1979                  850                    920
1980                1,310                  2,230
1981                1,940                  4,170
1982                2,550                  6,720
1983                1,280                  8,000
Rate of Return:          42%.
Appraisal Report:        No. 1696-PH, dated November 4. 1977.
/a  Discrepancies are due to rounding.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $8 million to help
finance a Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.90% per annum.
The Government would relend $4.3 million of the proceeds of the loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines under a subsidiary loan agreement and on
the same terms as those of the Bank loan for on-lending to tree farmers with
small and medium sized holdings. The Government would assume the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 27, 1977
(PHL77-2). A basic economic report, entitled The Philippines: Priorities
and Prospects for Development, was previously distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366).
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippines' economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if its considerable natural and human resources
had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were also distri-
buted relatively unevenly. The growth of productive employment opportunities
failed to keep pace with the growth of the population and labor force. Low
levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for necessary
infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance combined with a
failure to reduce the import dependence of domestic industry resulted in a
chronic weakness of the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% during 1970-75. Fluctuations, however, were significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly at
5% per year, exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal,
and the shares of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable.
Economic performance was exceptional in 1973 when real GNP grew by almost
10% and the current account registered a substantial surplus as sharply
higher prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand and
agricultural production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the
previous year. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an
investment boom. The resulting high investment rate together with favorable
sugar prices temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil
price increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP



growth was sustained at 6% in 1974-75. However, the collapse of sugar prices
in late 1975, following earlier declines in the prices of other major export
commodities, changed the external situation dramatically. The terms of trade
dropped by 23% in 1975; and the current account recorded a deficit equal to
6% of GNP.
5.        In 1976-77, the economy, led by exports and construction, has
continued to grow at 6% per year. Exports (GNFS) increased by 19% in real
terms in 1976 and are estimated to rise by 11% in 1977. Unfortunately until
1977 the stimulus of the expansion in export volume was largely offset by
further deterioration in the terms of trade. Inflation, which reached a peak
of 40% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on domestic
prices, has slowed to an average of about 7% because of the deceleration in
international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Investment and Savings
6.        Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6 1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP but still is well over the 14% average of the early 1970s. However,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment needs
to be improved.
7.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economc
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the
Government has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were restructured
in 1976 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and savings
deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, but further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium and small scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand, the
programs have become costly means of achieving their ojectives, and arrears
could threaten both the financial viability of the institutions involved and
the overall efficiency of resources mobilization and allocation. On the other
hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the availability of credit so that
arrears have to be reduced without closing necessary credit channels.



- 3-
Government Expenditures and Revenues
8.        Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
9.        Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues were raised
through revision in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve tax payer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing
revenue from domestic sources had been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Thus, total
tax revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
an estimated 14.4% in 1977. Greater resource mobili2ation by government
corporations whose investment programs have grown rapidly is also needed.
Agriculture
10.       Despite fairly good soils and a relatively literate rural population,
agricultural yields in the Philippines are among the lowest in Asia. Possible
reasons for this enigma are the low quantity and quality of irrigation facili-
ties and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure patterns; and weak
agricultural credit extension and other supporting services. Agricultural
production has, nevertheless, grown at an average rate of 4.4% per year in
the 1970s. The performance of the sector was exceptionally strong in 1976 as
production increased by 7% and the country was able to provide for rice and
corn consumption solely from domestic production.
11.       The land transfer program, which has been in operation for five
years, proceeded quite rapidly when larger land holdings were concentrated on,
but progress has been slower recently because of the greater difficulties
inherent in dealing with a large number of medium-sized, often middle-class
(e.g. retired civil servants), landowners.    As of June 1977, an estimated



- 4 -
120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under the program, had received
Certificates of Land Transfer which established their claim to the land.
Despite the difficulties in the process of implementation, the transfer
program remains an important part of the Government's rural development
strategy and worth the substantial effort that will be required to complete it.
Industry
12.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted
by tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial
growth was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital
intensity. Performance was disappointing with respect to employment and
exports. In the early 1970s the Government floated the exchange rate and
introduced policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives.
Further efforts in this direction are needed to sustain a higher level of
industrial growth, which has averaged around 8% during the 1970s. Due
to the slow growth in national income and demand because of the decline in
the terms of trade in the last two years, manufacturing output has also grown
slowly. On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have
expanded rapidly as their exports increased almost fivefold in the four-year
period 1973-76. The construction industry has also grown rapidly as the
expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment and large
tourism investment in the Manila area raised construction expenditure from 6%
of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
13.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1974-76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.
14.       The share of income received by the poorest 40% of families, which
remained constant during the 1961-71 period, increased from 12% in 1971 to
15% in 1975. The income share of the top 20% of families remained about the
same as in 1971, while that of middle income families declined. Due to the
improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth of agricultural
production, the decline in urban real wages following the devaluation in
1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the ratio of
the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 48% in 1971
to 57% in 1975. Real per capita consumption increased by about 2% annually
in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance for price increases, real incomes in
rural areas, where most of the poor live, have probably increased somewhat,
while real urban incomes have remained about the same.



15.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.7% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approxmately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Development Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives and policies for the period 1978-82
have recently been set out in a five-year plan, which calls for an accelerating
economic growth first to 7% and then to 8%. The development strategy focuses
on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities at a rate of
3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-sufficiency in
food and energy, strengthening of the balance of payments and increased
development in rural areas. In addition, the plan includes strategies for
development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
strategies outlined in the plan represent an elaboration of the policy
directions pursued by the Government in recent years. They are also broadly
consistent with the Bank's basic economic report although investment,
manufacturing output, and exports are projected to grow more rapidly than
visualized two years ago. It should be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and effort needs to focus on improving
the efficiency of investment.
External Sector
17.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade, the
current account of the Philippine balance of payments recorded a deficit of
$900 million, or 6% of GNP, in 1975. To maintain the momentum of growth and
investment, the Government drew down its international reserves, obtained
loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its borrowing program to
finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a strategy was adopted of
accelerating export growth both to hold the current account deficit about
constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       Some progress in this direction was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit stabilized
at $1.1 billion or 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to
$1.1 billion. Most of the inflow was from medium and long-term loans, two
thirds of which were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements
from official sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial
expansion in export volume which, with no major changes in the terms of
trade, import volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current
account deficit to 4% of GNP. Hence, on the whole, the balance of payments
position has strengthened significantly.



19.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The
ratio of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would
average about 19%, of which 7% would be public debt service, during the rest
of this decade. In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is
commensurate with the level of development expenditures which will be required
during 1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable
limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750
million at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines held in
Tokyo on December 1 and 2, 1977.
20.       At present, the Bank/IDA share in total debt outstanding is 11% and
its share in debt service is 10%. The Bank's lending to the Philippines is
oriented towards assisting the Government in addressing serious problems of
income inequality. Many of the planned projects have a low foreign exchange
component and high social benefits. In these circumstances it is necessary
to finance some local costs, in appropriate cases, to provide the necessary
resource transfer with the desired lending program composition. In view of
the per capita income of the Philippines, its level of external debt, and the
generally good management of the economy, a limited amount of IDA credits will
be blended into the Bank Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       By October 31, 1977, the Philippines had received 48 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,259.8 million, net of cancellations. About one-third of Bank lending
($465.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
tion, and water supply and another third ($420.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder, $248.4 million has been for industry and
$125.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now
being implemented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1977, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. Mfore
than 40% of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and about a quarter would be for needed



- 7 -
basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power.
The amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, popula-
tion and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account
for more than 15% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be
for industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid
growth in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a
significant expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine
development program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed
to meet the country's substantial future needs.
23.       This is the first loan to be presented to the Executive Directors in
FY78. Loans for rural infrastructure, irrigation, industrial finance and
rural electrification are expected to be ready for consideration by the
Executive Directors within the next few months.
24.       As of September 30, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $80.1 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of develop-
ment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, petroleum products,
nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and edible oils.
Of these investments, $28.6 million had been sold, cancelled and repaid,
leaving a net portfolio of $51.5 million, including $7.1 million undisbursed.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
25.       Forests are one of the Philippines' most valuable natural resources.
Exports of logs and other forest products have risen rapidly since 1950 and
by 1970 accounted for foreign exchange earnings of $300 million, or over a
quarter of the total value of exports. The rate of growth of log exports
slowed in the 1970s due to increasing difficulties in expanding log production
and the relative decline in overseas demand, particularly in 1974-75.
However, Government projections indicate that earnings from exports of wood
products will rise by an average of about 20% p.a. during 1976-85, and
processed wood products are expected to gradually replace log exports in
line with the Government's policy of increasing the domestic value added of
exported forest products.
26.       About 18 million ha, or 60% of the total land area of the Philippines,
is classified as forest land, of which about 8 million ha are commercially
exploitable, 3 million ha are noncommercial forest land, and about 5 million ha
are already denuded. Uncontrolled logging is accompanied by the activities of
shifting cultivators who frequently move into logged-over areas, cut existing
vegetation, and plant subsistence crops for one to three seasons before moving
on. Such areas are quickly covered by cogon grass which represses regeneration
of tree growth and adds to fire hazards. Each year some 200,000 ha of forests
are logged over, but reforestation by the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) of
the Department of Natural Resources compensates for only about 5% of the forest
cut. Furthermore, much of the BFD reforestation effort has concentrated on
restoring ground cover with little attention being given to planting of species
for ultimate commercial use. Also, follow-up maintenance of re-forested areas
is lacking, which frequently results in destruction by weeds, animals or fire.



- 8 -
27.       As population grows, the pressure on forest resources in the
Philippines will increase. Already imports of pulp, mainly long fiber, are
almost 100,000 tons annually. Bank projections indicate that by 1985 the
Philippines' annual demand for paper and paperboard would double from the
current level of 400,000 tons, valued at $250 million, to 700,000-800,000 tons
with a value of $500 million. Demands for fuelwood are growing rapidly due to
the rise in oil prices as well as continuous population pressure. Although
much of the fuelwood comes from noncommercial forests, continuous fuelwood
cutting is depleting resources and contributing to serious siltation and
erosion problems.
28.       The Government is aware of the problems of forest destruction and
in 1975 Presidential Decree 705 was issued which provides for acceleration of
land surveys and classification, protection and rehabilitation of forest
lands, rationalization of the wood processing industry and strengthening of
forestry research. The Government has recently established a Presidential
Council for Ecosystem Management, which includes representatives from the
main Government agencies concerned, to provide policy leadership for a more
active forestry development program and to stimulate popular awareness of
the need to preserve forestry resources. The success of the Government's
program will depend on efforts to improve regulation of logging in existing
forests, the implementation of well-planned reforestation efforts, and commer-
cial tree farming and woodlot development. The ability of the Government to
implement these programs will in turn depend on substantial strengthening of
the Bureau of Forestry Development and of other Government agencies concerned
with forest development and rehabilitation.
29.       The Bank first became involved in the forestry sector in 1972 when
$2 million was provided under the First Industrial Investment Credit Project
(Loan 998-PH) to help expand the Development Bank of the Philippines' (DBP's)
small lending program to smallholders for the cultivation of fast-growing
pine species (Albizzia falcataria) for pulpwood. In April 1977, at the time
of appraisal of the project now proposed, subloan commitments under the
previous Bank loan for this purpose had reached $1.2 million and were substan-
tially ahead of schedule. Staffing shortages in the concerned DBP branch
office, which had caused some delays, have been rectified, and the amount
allocated for tree farming under the loan is expected to be fully committed by
the end of 1977. While the full benefits to smallholders are not expected to
be realized for several years, tree farming has proved to be a very profitable
venture as smallholders are already deriving higher than expected incomes from
supervised thinning of the trees which will mature in the eighth year after
planting.
30.       The proposed project would continue the earlier Bank assistance
for tree farming and make a small but important beginning in assisting BFD
to initiate a reforestation program of long fibre pine for pulpwood production
and soil conservation purposes. There is also provision in the Bank's
future lending program for a watershed management project for reforestation
of irrigation watersheds and a second forestry project which would provide
for a larger reforestation project, based on the experience of the project
now proposed, and, possibly, assistance for the wood processing industry.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP) and the Department of Natural Resources (DNR). A Bank mission visited
the Philippines in April/May 1977 to appraise the project. Negotiations
were held in Washington in October 1977 and the leader of the Government
negotiating team was Mr. Rafael Sison, Governor of the Development Bank of
the Philippines. The Appraisal Report (No. 1696-PH) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III of this report provides
supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
32.       The proposed project has been designed to assist farmers with small
and medium sized holdings to develop tree farms, thereby demonstrating that
such farming could provide higher incomes for the very large numbers of
smallholders and subsistence farmers on marginal agricultural lands. This
program has the potential for helping to reverse the current trend of the
destruction of forests and logged-over lands which in turn cause problems of
wood shortage, soil erosion, siltation and water shortage. The project would
also assist the Bureau of Forest Development in strengthening its planning and
implementation capabilities, and, by initiating industrial-scale reforestation
with long fiber species, the project would help pave the way for a larger
industrial reforestation program in the future. The size of the project has
been kept relatively small in accordance with the present absorptive capacity
of the sector.
Project Description
33.       The project would include the following components:
(a) Smallholder tree farming
(i) Supervised credit and technical services for tree farm devel-
opment for some 7,400 farmers with small and medium sized
holdings occupying about 28,600 ha of marginal agricultural
land;
(ii) increased nursery capacity and facilities for the Bureau of
Plant Industry (BPI) in the Ilocos region to facilitate
production and distribution of Giant Ipil-Ipil seedlings to
subborrowers;
(iii) vehicles, motorbikes and office equipment for DBP branch
offices serving the project area; and
(iv) a program of research and monitoring of the tree farming
component of the project to provide the basis for future
tree farming programs.
(b) Plantation development
(i) Nursery facilities including worksheds, irrigation facilities,
and importation of seed;



- 10 -
(ii)  development of 3,000 ha of pine plantations (Pinus caribaea)
in the Abra Province of Northern Luzon, thereby initiating a
possible future program for planting an additional 10,000 ha
in the Abra Region;
(iii) construction and maintenance of forest roads, paths, firebreaks
and watchtowers;
(iv) project headquarter buildings, machine and storage sheds, staff
quarters and supporting facilities for management and technical
staff;
(v)  specialist technical services and support for incremental staff
manpower requirements;
(vi) monitoring of the program by a Steering Committee; and
(vii) consultant services for conducting a wood industry development
study to assist in rationalizing forestry sector planning.
34.       The project would also provide for the establishment of Project
Preparation Units within both the Department of Agriculture and the Department
of Natural Resources to improve project identification and preparation within
those departments which has been a constraint on the expansion of both forestry
and agricultural programs. Funds would be provided for incremental staff and
office equipment, short-term consultants and travel expenses.
The Project Areas
35.       Smallholder tree farming.   Of the 28,600 ha of tree farm development
to be financed under the project, 10,100 ha would be located in Mindanao,
5,500 ha in the Visayas and 8,000 in Northern Luzon. All the areas identified
have satisfactory climates and soil types to sustain tree farming. Funds
would also be provided for 5,000 ha of tree farm development in other areas to
be selected by DBP, taking into account future demand for tree farm development
and the suitability of the land for that purpose.
36.       Plantation development.   The 3,000 ha of pine plantation to be
established under the project would be located in Abra Province of Northern
Luzon. It forms part of the catchment area of the Abra River of more than
10,000 ha which has been identified by BFD as a priority reforestation area for
pulpwood production and soil conservation purposes. The area lies between the
proposed site of the pulpwood mill to be erected by Cellophil Resources Corpor-
ation (CRC), and 200,000 ha of concessions held by CRC and a sister company,
Cellophane. Both soil and climate are suitable for growing pine.
Land Tenure in the Project Areas
37.       Smallholder tree farming.   As a condition for obtaining subloans
from DBP under the project, subborrowers would be required to have either freehold
title, homestead lease, or leasehold rights to the land, which is not expected
to be a problem in the project areas. In addition, such land would be marginal



- 11 -
agricultural land best suited for tree crops; such land currently has few
alternative uses and provides only a subsistence income from traditional
farming. Under the current tree farming component of Industrial Credit
Project I, the average size of farms is 11 to 15 ha; for the proposed project,
the farm size for pulpwood production would be between 7 and 15 ha with an
average of 10 ha. However, farms for the production of firewood and charcoal
would be smaller, about 5 ha on the average. For leafmeal production (pro-
viding high protein for livestock feed) farms averaging 2 ha would be developed
because of the smaller holdings and labor-intensive methods of harvesting.
38.       Plantation development.   Only Government forest lands free from
forest concession holders would be reforested under the project. There are
a small number of people, living within the boundary of the 15,000 ha in the
Abra River basin, who, by traditional occupancy, could be considered to have
some rights to the land they occupy. The Government has agreed that BFD would
not issue or renew any pasture leases or permits in the project area or the
declared priority area of the Abra River basin (Section 3.12 of the Loan
Agreement). Inhabitants in the project area would also be given priority
for employment in the replanting programs, which would generate a large
number of jobs providing incomes substantially higher than they presently
earn. It has been agreed that Government would provide suitable land outside
the area and alternative employment opportunities for any household displaced
by the project (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). The project area has
been selected in part because there are few inhabitants in the Abra River
basin; less than 100 households are expected to be resettled as a result of
the project.
Project Execution and Management
39.       Smallholder Tree Farming.   As under the tree farming component of
the Industrial Credit Investment Project, the credit component of the proposed
project would be administered by DBP, a wholly Government-owned development
bank which operates in almost all sectors of the economy. It is the largest
and most important institutional source of long-term finance in the Philippines.
Since its inception in 1958, it has provided financial assistance, including
loan guarantees, totalling about $3.4 billion and, as of December 31, 1976,
its total assets amounted to $1.7 billion equivalent. DBP's lending operations
rose rapidly from $39 million in FY74 to $333 million in FY76. This increase
more than offset a deliberate reduction in DBP's guarantee operations, which
decreased from $373 million in FY74 to $182 million in FY76. Equity invest-
ments, mainly in Government enterprises, were approved totalling $7 million in
FY76, a much lower level than in the previous two years. The volume and
diversity of its operations give DBP a prominent and unique role in financing
development programs; it has administered a number of Bank-assisted projects
in the industrial, shipping, and agricultural (fisheries, livestock and rice
processing) sectors.
40.       Overall supervision of the tree farming program would be the respon-
sibility of the DBP Governor in charge of DBP's Agricultural Department I
(APD I) and the Branches and Agencies Department. DBP's branch managers
would have responsibility for appraisal and supervision of subprojects subject
to review by APD I. DBP would provide adequate staff and resources for the



- 12 -
branch offices established to carry out the project. In addition, DBP would
monitor, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a statistically selected sample
of subprojects in order to be able to determine systematically the agronomic,
productive and socio-economic results of its lending program for tree farming
(Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement). Subloan amounts would be based on the
actual needs of borrowers but would not exceed amounts equivalent to more than
75% of the labor requirements and 100% of the material or cash inputs. The
maximum size of subloans would be P 60,000 ($8,000) for farmers with holdings
of between 25 and 50 ha, representing less than 2% of the total farms eligible
for loans. Funds are also provided in the project for the Philippine Council
for Agricultural Resources Research (PCARR) to undertake research on the
means of optimizing tree farm production, maintenance and profitability.
PCARR would submit its program for tree farming research to the Bank by May
31, 1978 (Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement).
41.       As in the case of the previous tree farming operations, participa-
ting private companies (except in the Ilocos Region of Northern Luzon) would
provide planting material, technical assistance, and a guaranteed market and
minimum price for project smallholders. The companies are encouraged to
participate in the project because of their need for a large and dependable
source of raw materials for their operations. Memoranda of Agreement between
DBP and the four private participating companies spelling out their respective
obligations would be reviewed by the Bank and signed before the proposed loan
becomes effective. The private companies are well established with sound
financial positions. Approval of subloans by DBP would be contingent on the
execution of marketing agreements between participating companies and subloan
applicants which would be subject to review by the Bank (Section 5.01(a) and
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement). In the Ilocos Region, where tree farming
would be undertaken without assistance of a participating company, the Bureau
of Plant Industry would expand its nurseries and services in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement). Market-
ing agreements would not be necessary in Ilocos because of the very large
demand that exists in the region for firewood.
42.       Plantation Development.   This component of the project would be
carried out the by Bureau of Forestry Development (BFD) of the Department of
Natural Resources. BFD's office in Manila is organized into 10 functional
divisions and the field organization consists of 13 regional offices and 82
forest districts. The budget of BFD of P 200 million ($27 million) is expected
to expand rapidly in the years ahead, reaching P 587 million ($80 million) by
1980. In order to carry out a much larger and more effective forestry program,
BFD will need to expand its capacity as rapidly as possible so that it can more
effectively regulate logging activities, expand and improve its reforestation
program, provide better maintenance of reforested areas, and undertake more
effective planning for future forestry projects. The proposed project is
designed to assist BFD in these areas and would provide essential training for
both managerial and technical personnel involved in forest resource development
and maintenance.



- 13 -
43.       The Regional Director of Region 1 of BFD would have overall respon-
sibility for implementation of plantation development under the project.
To assist the Regional Director and to involve headuarters staff responsible
for planning and implementing national programs, a Steering Committee consisting
of BFD management staff would be formed to approve project work programs and to
review periodically progress under the project (Section 3.09 (c) of the Loan
Agreement). On-site management of the plantation development would be provided
by a full-time project manager. He would be assisted by a consultant in planta-
tion development and nursery techniques who would be appointed by November 30,
1978; the consultant would also assist in training BFD staff. A short-term
consultant would be appointed by March 31, 1978, to assist the project manager
in planning the layout for the first year's planting (Section 3.04 of the Loan
Agreement).
44.       Project Preparation Units.   Both the Department of Natural Resources
and the Department of Agriculture are setting up badly needed project prepara-
tion units to be able to plan programs and projects necessary for forestry and
agricultural development, respectively. The plans for these units have been
thoroughly discussed with Bank staff and are satisfactory. The Government has
agreed to provide these units with the funds and facilities necessary to carry
out their responsibilities effectively (Sections 3.01 and 3.09 (a) and (b) of
the Loan Agreement).
45.       Wood Industry Study.   Funds would also be provided under the project
for some 8 man-years of consultant services to assist the Planning Service of
DNR in conducting a study of wood industry development in the Philippines.
The study would investigate the potential of pulp and paper and the mechanical
forest industries. A longer term development strategy for these industries
would be developed based on the future availability of forest resources. DNR
would submit terms of reference for the Bank's review by June 30, 1978, and
consultants for the study would be hired by December 31, 1978 (Section 3.04(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $16.0 million, of which
about $3.5 million would be in foreign exchange. The Bank loan of $8 million
would finance about 50% of total costs including the foreign exchange component
and $4.5 million of the local cost requirements. The justification for local
cost financing in the Philippines is set out in para. 20. Cost estimates
include the provision of a physical contingency for the plantation component of
10% and price contingencies for both the pine plantation and tree farming
components which take into account projected rates of domestic and international
inflation. The loan would be disbursed over 5-3/4 years.



- 14 -
47.       The Government would relend $4.3 million of the proceeds of the
loan to DBP on the same terms as those of the Bank loan and would assume the
foreign exchange risk. As a condition of effectiveness a subsidiary loan
agreement would be entered into between the Government and DBP (Section 5.01(b)
of the Loan Agreement). The balance of the loan would be used by the Government
in the following proportions: $2.1 million by BFD for forestry development;
$700,000 for the Project Preparation Units in the Departments of Natural
Resources and Agriculture; $300,000 by the Philippine Council for Agricultural
Resources Research for research purposes; $40,000 by the Bureau of Plant
Industry; and $600,000 for the wood industries development study by BFD.
48.       DBP would onlend the Bank funds to tree farmers who would contribute
about 11% to the cost of their projects. The subloans would be committed
over a period of 4 years and would generally have the following repayment
and grace periods: for leafmeal, 2 years including one year of grace, and for
pulpwood, 14 years including 7 years of grace. However, repayment terms
would be generally flexible and would be based on the ability of the borrower
to repay the loan from the proceeds of the investment.    DBP would charge
positive interest rates in accordance with its rate policy which is at present
effectively 14% for loans secured by land and 16% for loans secured by other
forms of collateral. DBP would not commit more than $1 million, or 25% of the
loan funds for tree farming, to finance subloans to beneficiaries having more
than 25 ha and no subloans to those having over 50 ha in order to ensure an
appropriate balance in the overall lending program of DBP (Schedule 5 of Loan
Agreement.)
Procurement
49.       Smallholder Tree Farming.   Land clearing, weeding and harvesting
would be done by the farmers themselves or with hired labor. Giant Ipil-Ipil
and Albizzia planting material would be supplied to project subborrowers at
cost by the private companies participating in the project, while BPI nurseries
and private sources would supply Giant Ipil-Ipil seedlings for firewood produc-
tion in the Ilocos Region. Fertilizer would be purchased by smallholders
through regular commercial outlets which are widely distributed throughout the
country. Amounts of seed and fertilizer (total cost:$1.3 million over 5
years) would not be large enough to justify international competitive bidding.
Motor bikes, jeeps, office and other equipment, valued at $37,000 for DBP,
$53,000 for BPI and $130,000 for PCARR, would be procured locally by DBP, BPI
or PCARR, respectively, in accordance with Government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts of more than $50,000 would be advertised
locally. Foreign firms are well represented in the Philippines and would be
eligible to participate provided they could supply satisfactory repair facili-
ties and after sales service. Bulk procurement and international competitive
bidding would not be warranted because the individual contracts would be rela-
tively small as there is a wide variety of items to be procured and purchases
would be phased over a four-year period.



- 15 -
50.       Plantation Development and the Project Preparation Units.   Annual
requirements for fertilizer during the early years of implementation would be
relatively small and would gradually increase to 270,000 tons ($60,000) during
the last year of the project. Purchases amounting to less than $50,000 would
be from local commercial outlets in accordance with Government procedures
acceptable to the Bank. When annual requirements exceed $50,000, BFD would
procure fertilizer after local advertising in accordance with Government
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Pinus caribaea seed would be obtained
from foreign sources. Purchases would be in accordance with international
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank from among the limited number of
suppliers. Vehicles and equipment for BFD and the project preparation units
($415,000) would be procured in accordance with Government procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank. Contracts of more than $50,000 would be advertised
locally and foreign firms would be eligible to participate provided they could
supply satisfactory repair facilities and after-sales service. Contracts for
civil works totalling about $600,000 over five years would not be large enough
to attract international contractors. Such contracts would be tendered
through competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
51.       Disbursements.  The proposed loan would be disbursed for 35% of
the value of subloans made and equipment and materials procured by DBP. The
loan would also be disbursed for vehicles and equipment, civil works, consul-
tant services and incremental staff salaries for the project on the basis of:
40% for BFD and BPI, 85% for PCARR and 80% for the project preparation units
of the Department of Natural Resources and the Department of Agriculture.
The relatively high percentage for PCARR and the project preparation units
reflects the fact that a Bank loan would, in these cases, be financing entirely
new programs and activities which need to expand rapidly in the next several
years. Withdrawal applications would be supported by certification of expendi-
tures from the appropriate authority in each agency and supporting documentation
would be retained by each agency for review during Bank supervision missions.
Project Benefits
52.       The proposed project would constitute an important beginning in
helping the Government to develop more effective forestry programs. About
7,400 smallholders would benefit directly from the tree farming component of
the project, and the project is designed to stimulate interest in tree farming
country-wide by demonstrating the financial benefits which can be derived from
such investments. The plantation development component would assist BFD in
strengthening its capacity to implement effective reforestation programs
which will need to expand rapidly in the future. Because the project would
revegetate some 31,000 ha of denuded sloping land throughout the Philippines,
and would establish the technology and expertise for much larger reforestation
efforts in the future, the project would have significant direct and indirect
environmental benefits.



- 16 -
53.       At full production the project would generate raw materials for
annual production of some 10,000 tons of short and 8,000 tons of long fiber
pulp, together valued at $8 million and representing import savings of $6.5 mil-
lion. Annual particle board production from wood produced under the project
would amount to about 33,000 tons, with a value of $8 million. Fuelwood and
charcoal wood production, to the extent of some 400,000 cu meters annually,
would reduce crude oil imports by about $2 million, eliminate the need for
about $1.5 million of coal imports, and facilitate the production of an addi-
tional $700,000 worth of polyvinyl resins and related chemicals. High protein
leaf-meal production of about 55,000 tons yearly would provide annual export
earnings of some $5.5 million.
54.       Development under the project would take place in some of the most
remote areas of the country and provide substantial benefits to people in the
lower 40% income group in the rural population, many of whom have annual family
incomes of less than P 2,000 and are living in conditions of absolute poverty.
This is equivalent to a per capita income of about $53 per annum compared to
the national average per capita income of $390 in 1975. At full development,
about 8,000 man-years of on-farm employment would be created annually as a
result of the tree farm subproject, and another 1,100 man-years would be
required to sustain plantation development at the projected target rate of
about 2,000 ha per year. For those employed through plantation development,
annual incomes would be about P 3,000 ($400) per annum. Incomes derived as a
result of the tree farming subproject would generally be incremental to existing
sources of income, since tree farming would be undertaken on marginal land not
presently under cultivation, using to a large extent family labor. The annual
cash incomes after debt servicing resulting from the subproject would range
from F 1,200 ($160) per household for firewood and charcoal type tree farm
development to P 4,500 ($600) for farms producing leafmeal.
55.       Financial rates of return, based on project treefarm models, would
generally be in the 25-30% range, except in the case of leaf meal production,
which would have a financial return of more than 50%. Economic rates of return
were calculated using shadow prices for labor, which is in abundant supply in
the project area, and assuming that project lands have few alternative uses.
Taking these factors into account, the smallholder treefarming subproject
would have an economic rate of return of about 65%. While the prices used
are believed unlikely to fall, a 20% price decrease for leaf meal and a 10%
price decrease for charcoal and firewood still give an economic rate of return
of about 60%. The plantation development subproject would not only initiate
development of much needed, long-fiber pine plantations, but would also assist
BFD to develop the planning, budgetary and technical expertise to expand and
improve the quality of their reforestation efforts nationwide. The economic
return from the pine plantation investment would be about 11% over a 30-year
period. This assumes BFD would continue replanting 2,000 ha per year for at
least 15 years to allow a sustained annual cut of about 2,000 ha.



- 17 -
Project Risks
56.       Risks associated with the tree farming are minimal, considering the
guaranteed market agreements, the high financial rates of return and the
success under the pilot project financed under Loan 998-PH. Varying degrees of
involvement by participating companies must, however, be expected but DBP
would be able during project implementation to concentrate its lending on those
areas where adequate support is being provided and operations are proceeding
smoothly.
57.       For the plantation development, the main risks would be the following:
(a) the trees would be grazed or burned out, (b) difficulties could arise in
resettling people in the project area, and (c) the tree species might not
respond well to local growing conditions. With respect to the fire and grazing
risks, the project has been designed to ensure that BFD takes reasonable pre-
cautions such as providing firebreaks, watch towers and some fencing. The
problems of shifting cultivators and pasture lease or permits are minor in the
project area and the project provides for substantial employment to local
inhabitants and for suitable arrangements for resettlement in the limited
number of cases (50-100 households) where this may occur. With respect to
responsiveness of the pine species to local conditions, the risks are slight
since these types of trees grow well under similar conditions in Australia and
Fiji and since experimental planting in the area has so far proved to be satis-
factory. In the unlikely event that problems do develop, it would be possible
for BFD to undertake further field trials with other strains and species, and
at the same time to establish plantings of short fiber species known to grow
well in the area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of the
Philippines, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III of this report.
59.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement would be:
(a) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and DBP,
and (b) the signing of a memorandum of understanding between DBP and BPI and
between DBP and the four participating companies.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 6, 1977
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                            Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                ----------------------------------------------
___________-___                                PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                      1960      1970    ESTIMATE         THAILAND      TURKEY         AO,-EA SOUTH i
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   140.0*    230.0*    410.0*/a           210.0 *     500.0*     280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)          27.4      36.9      43.3/a             36.3       35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      91.0     123.0     144.0/a             71.0       46.0       327.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      328.0     375.0     395.0/a            283.0       65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        45.1      44.2      43.8               44.3       40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         17.9      13.2       10.5              13.7       14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      R   6      R1O       72                 90.0      153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      49 4      U5l6      5H5                55.5       54.4-       65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5       3.3        3.3               3.2        2.6/b,c     2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                3.0       3.0       2.8                3.1        2.5         2.3
URBAN                                4.0       4.0       3.9                4.9        4.9/d       6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         29.3      27.6      29.8               15.0       38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      45.7      45.6      43.2               45.1       41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                      51.6      51.6      54.0               51.8       54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2.7       2.6       2.8                3.1        4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9       0.9        0.9               0.9        0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3       1.5       1.3/b              1.1        1*1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          *-     320.0    4065.0/a            470.0          ..     4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..       2.0      25.0/a             10.0        8.2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       10100.0   12400.0   15400.0/a          16700.0    14500.0/f   10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        61.0      55.0      52.67a             79.0       67.0        50.4/a
IINEMPLOYFn (X o0 LA8OR FOPCE)         6.3       7.5        4.C                * *       4.0j       4.5--
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           28.8        ..         *-              22.0       32.8/h      17.1
HIHEST 20% OF NOUSEHOLDS           56.2      54.0      53.3               51.1       60.6/h      44-5
LOWElST  20% Of HOU*EHOLDS           4.2       3-.       D.D                5.6        2.91        7.
LONwst  401 OF NOMUENOLOS           11.0      11.7      14.7               14.3        9.4 /h     17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..        ..       43.0/c              ..        53.0       28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..        2.07w              .-         0.9        2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..        ..    10. O/d            7970.0     2250.0      2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..        ..     4,0.01.           6650.0      1770.0 /i    2170.Q
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         1180.0     850.0     880.0              890.0      500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        83.0      93.0     105.7              103.0       110.0      103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             44.0      45.0      55.6               52.0       78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0      22.0        ..               17.0 /a    22.0        19.0
0EATH RATE (/THOU) AGIS 1-4           9U0        6.6       7.5                           t4.7 /k
EDUCATION
ADJWUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     95.0      113.0     117.0               81.0       109.0      104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    26.0      49.0      49.0               16.0        28.0       41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            10.0      10.0      10.0               12.0        11.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    14.0       6.0       9.0               14.0 /b    14.0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 ..        ..      87.0               79.0        55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                ..        ..         ..                ..         1.9        2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                     80.0      76.0         .5 ..                       64.0       80.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                17.0      23.0      31.0                 ..       41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    .-       7.0      10.0                           18.0       30.0
CONSUMPTION
___________
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        22.0      72.0         ..              78.0        69.0      126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          3.0       8.0        8.0               5.0         4.0        2.0
FLECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         100.0     235.0     291.0              124.0       247.0      307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              1.3        2.0       1.5                1.0        0.7        3.5
SEE NOtES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



F.2of4 page.
NOTES
Unlaes othermisc noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 andi 1961, for 1970 beteen. 1968 and 1970 and for most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
A GMP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlasa mthodology (1974-76 basis).
*5 Korea hoe been selected as en objective country on the beets of its similar population, locatiom         nd income level and, like the PhilIppirwB, It
is expected to grow rapidly in the coning years.
1KHiZPP(LE      1960     la  1950-55;     /b  RAtio of population under 15 ama 65 end over to total labis? force;         Ic  As percentage of amploynent;
Ld  1960-62;     Ia   1962;    .Lf Not including vocationail sehort-tero courpse.
1970    /a   A. percentage of employment;      lb   Not Including private vocational achoota or vocational ehort-tern coursesa.
MOST RECENT !ESTDIATE'     In  1976;     /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          it   1971;
Id Registered only; believed to be over-setimate of number actually practicing.
THAILANDO         1970    Li  L964-66;     /b   public achools, which include technical edacation at the poat-aecondary level.
TU'RKEY           1970O   I   1967;     lb  Excludea 17 esetern provinscea;      /A   1965-67;    Id   1965-70;     Ie  Ratio of population untder 13 and 65
end over to labor force 15 years And over;        /f  15 years and over, excludea uneicployed;       /&  Registered only;
lh  Diaposable income;      It  Including   asslatant nursea and midwives;      Li. 1964-66;     Ab   1967-66;     /1  Persona
aix years and over who tell-the cenusu takera that they can read and write.
KOREA REP. Of'   1970     LiA    percentage of amployment;       /b  Regiatered, not all practicing in the country;        /c  water piped ina ide.
RIO,  Noyember 17, 1977
UIEPRITIONIR OP SOCIAL lOsICATORS
Land Arsea (thou he2)It                                                                              -     rs     t
Total -Total surface are    tcapri,ig land area and inland waee                                                duuaio  a  urignrso, - Poplation divided by eber of practicing
eesadfenals grdat     urses, ctreind'I or "certif tad  narees* and
AgrIc. -  oat recant esftimate of agriculturaL area seed temporstily or perna-             eseiliary Personel with training or asperience.
neatly for crupe, pa-turee, - aket & hitche.sgardens or to lie fallowo.                Pmnulatimn Par haseital bed - Papulatiou divided by nmber of hospital heAt
GNP Pr --Pt ~   - NP pr c.pt. esimate   At urren   morkt pri.n,     avalable In public end prints general and specliafleed hospital and
ONP ar anih.fl~i1  01F pe caita  atiateeat  urrat mrkerpries,rehabilitation centers; excludes ouraing hones end aetabliahenota for
calculated by -asM  Coovrsian esthad as World B.ek Atlas (1973-75 basis);                custodial anad preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              Per capita supply of calries ft o2f ros   aeMVrs   - Computed fron ene rgy
equivalent of et faod suple      ealal     in country per capita per day,
Pouatom and vital statistic;                                                            available aupplisa ecopriac domeatic production,imotlesxpr,an
Poanarin (lid-ear illon) As of July fIrst:  if not available, everage              changes in stock; net euPPIle enciuda animal feed, aseda, quantities caci
of tv  end-yer seImtim   .s; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                   in food proceaa.Ing and leases in distribution; requirmoet. a er eatiasred
by PAO base d on phyLological needs for normal activity and health conaid-
Population deatr -~ Per anare he    - Mid-year PoPuletion per square klenater              sting enoirenment t.    peretur-, body wseighta, age end see dlatribustiona of
(10   hetarn ens)iftotlara                                                                population, and alloo,ing 101 far vests at household level.
Popultion amait -  a   usuar he of agric. Leand - Computed as abova for             Per capita unyo poen(grin Pear day)               rtincnetofprcpt
agricultural land only.                                            ne~~~~~~~~~.t sup'ply ofodper day;, me t eupplY of food La defined as above; require-
-eats far all conatrie esatablished by USDA Feomicl Researob Service
Vital etatiatica                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~provide for a mindose  allowance, of 60 grams, of total protein per day, and
Cr-ude birth rate ear thousanus. a-varse I Annual lIve birtha par thawacod af               20o'grass of animal end polses proatei, of which 10 gras should he animal
old-year Population; ten-yser sritdintit  averages ending in 1960 and 1970,              protein; these standards are liner than those of 75 grasA of tocal proceis
and five-year average ending in 1975 for amet recent estimate,                           and 2.3 grnam of animal protein as an av,erge for the ,aord, proposed by FAO
Crude death rats ear1 thoP-and. enrage  - Annual deatha per thousand af mid-year            in the Third world Peed surrey.
population; tan-year aritrlateic aver.age  ending i  1960 and 1970 and diva-           Per capita protein_sanely _rm Inia      end pulse -   _rtain supply of food
year -.erage ending in 1975 for moat recen,t estimate,                                   deie      re   nml    and pulse  inj grsprd
infat mrtalty ate(/thou)    Annual ulsatha of infants ,o,dar one year of aeg        Death rate (/tho)ae1-       - Annual destha Per thousand in age group 1-4
pier thoutand liat hirthfy.)                                                              years   tchildren in: ti;s aeg group; auggeated as etn indicator of
Life xeacancy t bith (na)-average m,iber of years of life remaaming at             malnutrition.
birch; UusAlly -five-year averages endIng in 1960, 1970 and 1973 for deveip-
Ing countriea.                                                                         Education
Grossrorouctoo rate - Avrage ember of ti-s daughtersa VaRmm   wilt hear            Adjusted.scrallamniratIo -eiaysho               nuln       faies       spr
tm hr nrmalrepodutive period if sh. experiences present age-specific                c___ge o_prar__thoh_eg         pouain      inc  ludestchildre   age6-11 ye ars
fertlit  resa;uoselly five-year vavrages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975               but adjusted for different lsmgthse of primar_y edacacmton; for countrieos it
forudavelopingt coutres (7)Uni-versa                                                                 educatIon, enroLlment may exceed lOt iaice aome pupils are below
Popuetin cinsia atsitI- total - Conpoud -aennl grosrth rata  at mid-year             or above the official school age.
Population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                           Adlusted enrollment ratIo - seondary school - COrputed as abov; s.ecodary
Population arowth rats ill - urban - Cuputed like gr-nth eats of .o,el                      education requirsaat least four yearn Of approve.d primary instruction;
PoPulation: different definitions Of urban areas maY effect cooperability of             provides general, voostlnonl or reacher trsainig Instruction, for pupis
data among countrie.                                                                      o   2t    7yaSo       ge   oreodnecuss             r    eeal      xldd
Urban population f7, of total) - Ratio of urban to total POPulatIon; diffarent            fasof schau17lyagsO proide flrec anRd seon louvale)r- geneally ears of
deiiin  f urbas areas may effect coeparabiliry of data 5004 countries.             schooLlng: atacay         Lel, wnttienst bntutennyh           partially a
_______________________                                             ~~~~  ~~~~ceM pletaly  secluded.
Ama ertocurs (ercet) -Children (0-li years),  woking-ege (15-64 years),            Yoceti.larla        tf    fscnay            oein      nttto         nld
snd rtired(~5 y ars end sPar)  -in    ner asnacnae  fud-y5aar ppulriet. t.eteclanital, Industrial or sihr progress which Oprerte independently ora
fg deednyrti           ai     f  ouainune           ad6    and overutohthose4dpartments of secondary Inacitutione .
of ages iS through 64.                                          ~~~~~~~~~Adult literacy rate It)  - Literate adults (able to read and wits) as prr-
Ecennic epedenc rato  -Ratio of population und.r 15 and 65 end over to              tentage Of total adult Po'pulation aged 15 years end over.
the labor for- in age group of 15-64 years
Familypiannig - sceetorsicmnuluiv.thou  -Cumulative number of acceptors         ous ing,
of..birth-cot- -eldvcs    ne     upie     fntioal faiy planing program                 Peownsa per roam (urban     Average n,nbet of peren per room is occapied
sic  Inception.                                            f  arie     wse              cenen     ia   dwlig    in urban areas; dwelling5 exclude non-permannt
child-hearn am,age (15-p4 years) who use birth-control devices to all mar,ried          Occupied dwlig     itbouLt ie  d w te Mit)  - Occupied convetional dwellings
wonen in am  age group.                                           1n ur~~~~~~~        ~         ~~banan  rra  aea  w thou  iid or outside piped water facilities
tOpL72pen t                                                                                 as Percentage af-t allocupied dwellings.
Access to electriciyf.   fe   Id slns           ewnimldelnswt
Total laborforc tbouaand      - Econmicelly sotiv- persona, including Armed                 electricity in living quates     s  eren   o '-total dw   welln ting uran an
focsAnd unanPtoyed but secluding housewives, students, etc.; definition5              rural arsee.In--                                                          d
in various countriea "er not conpar-ble..Rrid                                                 elnscnetdt            lcrct        t       aptda       bv     o   ua
Labo fore inagrcultre f )  -Agricultural labor ferce (in farming, forestry,,      .  dwelin   only.       d  -eatitt               opue       s--.fr-.
huntig sodfishig) aspercetage of total labor force.a                                         ry
Unaploed t o  la or orc) -Unamployed are usuaLly defined Re paertso  who         Cnepto
areA able and willing totke a. oboaofajbn agvndy                   mie       u           Adio receivers feettha en)       All types of receivars far redi   broadcasts
of ak jab, and seekn   womprk fo   pcfe       iiu     eidnt exceeding One                 to general public Par thousand ofpplto;ecueInlee                     eevr
week  maynot e caparble betwee  countries du. to different dafiniti..              inm countrises and in years when registrationo   racdio setsewsein reffect;
Of unesplayed and source of data, e.g. , amployment office statistics, s..P,.             data for recent yea          rstmyne  e  apaal  Oradis e  s ast onrc  abofiahed
aurveys, campuleory unamploymsent insurance,                                             titems log. 'tY4          a      ecmaal          il-t-nr.              blse
InOneidistbryib.ution  - Percentege of private income (both In cash and kled)             pMlessta     ihtproa       axlue pasebueran casharses and military
reevdb  ichest 5it, richest 207., poorest 207., and poorest 407. of houee-         vehicles.                  xcue       Ablacs      ha "     n   iltr
h o l d s .                                                  E l e c t r i c i t y ( b o b / y r  e a r  c a p~~ ~ ~~~~~~~' 4 )   -   A n n u a l   c o na sM P t i o n   o f   I n d u s t r i a l ,   c o o e r ci a1 l
Dictributi-  Of 1-d Ownership - Pememtog. -f 1-public and privateeelectricity iny kilowattIhoursrper capita,agenerally
sditributie Cfl n    o nrhi        eretg oof enlaedbyweathes               lltbeaed on prduction date, without allowance fr lasse                   in grids hut slime-
end poorest 107. of land menare.                                   le~~~~~Ig for~ iMperteM endxperts af electricity.
NEaldth and Nutrition                                                                     Newsprint ks/yr per cap)   - Per capita annual coessptimo   in kilogrnm
population ear     _ hylism - Population divIded by -maer of practicing                     estimated tram  doatiprdtin          lueciprsofawpnt
Physicians, qualified iron a medical achool at univaersiy lews,1cPd.luPu                                                              t wPr-o         mpit



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      %          1966-71          1971-76             1976
GNP at Market Prices           17,631      100.0           5.1              6.6                6.4
Gross Domestic Investment       5,519       31.3           5.9             12.5                6.3
Gross National Saving           4,413       25.0           2.4             10.8                6.6
Current Account Balance        -1,106       -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,115       17.7          -0.5              5.6               18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           4,270       24.2           4.1              6.5                1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                 Labor Force                 V. A. per worker
US$ million           x       Million                      - US$            %
Agriculture          5,156            29.0         8.1        50.0             637           58.0
Industry             6,029            33.9        2.3         14.2           2,621          238.7
Services             6,607            37.1        5.0         30.9           1,321          120.3
Unemployed             .               .          0.8          4.9              .          _
Total/Average     17,792           100.0       16.2        100.0           1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                     Central Government
(P billion)         Z of GDP            (P billion)          % of GDP
1976         1976          1971         1976          1976         1971
Current Receipts         20.9         15.8          11.3         18.3         13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure      18.2         13.7         10.1          16.1         12.2           7.6
Current Surplus           2.7          2.0          1.2           2.2          1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures      4.9          3.8          1.6           4.5          3.4           1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974      1975      1976     August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                       6,500     7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100       12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector       3,900     2,400      2,000     5,800     8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector     12,600    16,200     24,200    28,500    23,600       34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                   11.5      10.1        9.0       8.9       9.2
General Price Index (1972 - 100) 100.0       117.6      154.4     166.8     180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                  8.2      12.2       39.8       7.4       5.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector        -2.1     -38.5      -16.7     190.0      53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector       21.7      28.6       49.4      17.8      17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                  US$ million     %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                   539      21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS         3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                     613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         3.784   4.116   4*383   Forest Products                    298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit - -)     -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                   437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products     178       7.1
Interest Payments (net)          26     -53    -185   Other Manufactures                 456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)    -154    -149    -138     Total                          2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                   276     318     269
Balance on Current Account     -205    -924  -1,j107  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment        28     125     144
Net MLT Borrowing                                     Public Debt, including Guaranteed        2,216
Disbursements                 456     677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt               1,812
Amortization                  312     318     368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed          4,028
Subtotal                    144     359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a          143     -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)        110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed         7.2
Gross Reserves                                        Nonguaranteed Private Debt                10.5
(end year) /b               1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed           17.7
Petroleum Imports               573     710     801
IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30. 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                             IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages        End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed           381.7   28.6
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977    Undisbursed                         671.2    3.3
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed    1,052.9    32.2
US$1.00 =  P    7e275  7.447     7.418        7.403
P 1.00  = US$ 0.138    0.134     0.135        0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
Ic Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
1d Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1977
Loan or
Credit                                                   Amounts (US$ millions)
Number     Year      Borrower        Purpose           Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed         218.5    19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines     Irrigation        34.0              0.3
720-PH    1971                      Rice Processing
"1            and Storage     14.3              5.7
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation     Power             22.0              5.0
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines     Education II              12.7      3.6
891-PH    1973                      Fisheries         11.6              1.8
939-PH    1973          "           Ports              6.1              3.9
950-PH    1973                      Second Highways   68.0             16.7
984-PH    1974                      Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation       9.5              7.1
998-PH    1974          "           DFC-DBP I         50.0              8.6
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation     Power             61.0             32.1
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines     Population        25.0             21.8
1048-PH    1974                      Shipping          20.0             15.9
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC               30.0             20.2
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines       Irrigation      17.0             12.5
1102-PH    1975                      Rural
Development     25.0             23.5
1120-PH    1975                      Small and Medium
Industries      30.0              9.3
1154-PH    1976                      Magat
Irrigation      42.0             37.7
1190-PH    1976                      DFC-DBP II        75.0             66.0
1224-T-PH  1976          "           Education III     25.0             21.2
1225-PH    1976          "           Livestock II      20.5             14.3
1227-PH    1976                      Chico Irrigation  50.0             49.7
1272-T-PH  1976                      Manila Urban      10.0              9.7
1282-PH    1976                      Manila Urban      22.0             21.4
1269-PH    1976                      Second Grain
Processing      11.5             11.5
1270-PH    1976                      Second Fisheries  12.0             11.3
1353-PH    1977                      Third Highways    95.0             94.9
1367-PH    1977                      Jalaur Irrigation 15.0             15.0
1374-PH    1977                      Fourth Education  25.0             24.8
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit          36.5             36.5
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines       tion Systems
Improvement     50.0             50.0
1415-PH    1977          "           Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0             23.0
1421-PH /a 1977                      Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0              15.0
1460-PH /a 1977    National Power
Corporation     Seventh Power     58.0             58.0
Total                                        1.227.5   32.2     748.0
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                    101.7       -
Total now outstanding                       1.125.8    32.2
Amount sold                     22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)               12.6            9.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                             1.116.4    32.2
Total undisbursed                             744.4     3.6    748.0
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1977
Fiscal                                                    Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                         Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                              15.0      4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                      8.0       -       8.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone company                          4.5       -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                  0.8     0.4       1.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation             6.2     2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                               15.0       -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation               1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation        1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.5     0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation             1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                7.0       -      7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                   2.6     0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                   2.3     1.2       3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                   3.5      -        3.5
Total gross commitments                     71.0     9.1     80.1
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                      22.8      5.8     28.6
Total commitments now held by IFC           48.2     3.3     51.5
Undisbursed                                 5.8      1.3      7.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _1
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area.
Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods, but construction has progressed
satisfactorily since then. All works have been substantially completed. The
Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1977, to allow for disbursements
of about $300,000 for a communications system. Project costs have increased
72% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the
effects of successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the dam
(which accounted for about one quarter of the increase in costs). However,
the project has reached full development sooner than was anticipated at the
time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of the
dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and nearly
7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a considerable
increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a result the estimated
rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296   of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:   July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 M4W at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 939    Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 998     Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All but 6 of the 32 project institutions
have been completed; the remainder will be completed by the end of 1977.
Three fourths of the technical assistance program has been completed. Cost
overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of inflation and earlier
lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of equipment purchased has
been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31. 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048    Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7. 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1120    Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154    Magat Multirurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1190    Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1224    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1225    Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270    Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project will be submitted to the Executive Directors in December.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national and
rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts have
been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road restor-
ation/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention has
been given to this problem and, as a result, these components are expected to
accelerate during the coming year.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is to assist the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan No. 1415    Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan will finance: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Loan No. 1421    Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen its planning
and implementation capability for its land settlement program and will also
upgrade three existing land settlement areas. The Loan became effective
on October 27, 1977.
Loan No. 1460    Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The terminal date of effectiveness has
been postponed to January 6, 1978 to allow additional time for NPC to appoint
management consultants; the consultants' contract is expected to be signed in
the next several weeks.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    10 months
(b)  Preparation by:                   Government, DBP, and the Bank,
with assistance of CP/FAO.
(c)  Initial discussions with Bank:    February 1976
First Bank mission:               May 1976
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:      March 11, 1977
(e)  Negotiations completed:           October 28, 1977
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:    March 1978
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an
implementation timetable to ensure effective project imple-
mentation.
(b)  A Bank mission would visit the Philippines during the coming
months to review progress in project implementation.
(c) In particular, the Bank staff will, during the coming months,
need to review:
(i) details of the research project of PCARR;
(ii) recruitment of a forestry specialist by DBP; and
(iii) the signing of Memoranda of Agreement between DBP and
BPI and between DBP and the four companies intending to
participate under the project.
Section III: Special Conditions. Agreement was also reached with Government
on the following points during negotiations:
(a) BFD would not issue or renew any pasture permits or leases
in the project area or in the declared priority Abra River
basin (para. 38).
(b) Government would provide suitable land outside the project
area and alternative employment opportunities for any
household displaced by the project, who by traditional
occupancy could be considered to have some rights to land
(para. 38).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) PCARR would submit details of its research project to the
Bank for review by May 31, 1978 and progress reports on
project studies would be submitted annually for Bank review
(para. 40).
(d) DBP would annually monitor, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, a statistically selected sample of subloans from each
subproject area including the ongoing Pilot Project area and
submit the monitoring report to the Bank together with an
overall progress report in accordance with the format and
procedures agreed with the Bank (para. 40).
(e) DBP would provide adequate staff for efficient implementa-
tion of the project (para. 40).
(f) BPI would expand its nursery capacity and production of
Giant Ipil Ipil seedlings, principally in the Ilocos Region,
in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 41).
(g) BFD would recruit a forestry specialist upon approval of the
Bank and he would take up his duties by November 30, 1978
(para. 43).
(h) BFD would establish a steering committee for the subproject to
approve and monitor works under the subproject and to annually
submit a progress report to the Bank for review (para. 43).
(i) BFD would hire a short-term consultant by March 31, 1978 to
assist in planning the first years' planning layout (para. 43).
(j) BFD would hire consultants by December 31, 1978, to assist in
carrying out a wood industries development study (para. 45).
(k) DBP would not commit more than $1 million (25% of the loan
funds) for financing subloans of more than 25 ha and no
subloans in excess of 50 ha would be financed from proceeds
of the loan (para. 48).



IBRD 13076
I  I                                            I          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES           120'                  122'                  12t'                    126'
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
I ILOCOS            VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                                             PHILIPPINES
V 'llocos Norte    137, Aklan
,2 Abra                                                     I?37, Aan    SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND
3: Ifocos Sur     !39~ Antique 
41 Mountain       [40 Iloilo
,SLaUnion          41 Negros Occidental                                                 FORESTRY          PROJECT
61Benguet       VIl CENTRAL VISAYAS
P 6Pangutsan       '42 Cebu                                    n
11 CAGAYANVALLEY      t431NegrosOriental                                                   ZX        MAIN TREE FARM PROJECT AREAS
8l Batanes         144' Bohol
9, Cagayns         1441 SBquijor                                                                 PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
10,KlnaAaa        VIII ESTERN Io AA                     _    
11 KasingaApayao  Vil EASTERNlVISAYAS                                                             ONGOING PILOT TREE FARM PROJECT
111 lsabe a  ~    46i Northern Samar                  Babuyaa Ch,annel
18-  121 :fugao          471Samar                                                                      PRIMARY HIGHWAYS
113 Nueva Vizcaya   481 Eastern Samar                          arr.,  p                -   -      RAILWAYS
14  uirino49Let
14,            i~~~~~9  Leate 
IU CENTRAL LUZON      L50 Southern Leyte                     I                                    - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
15, Nueva Ecila  IX WESTERN MINDANAO                     I
16 Tarlac          I51' Zambangadei Norte  Ban                 t                                  REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
171 Zambalen    IZamboangandl u
181 Pampanga       1521 Zamboangadel Sur                t S--                          -     -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
M191 Bulacan        |    anilan                    2
20, Bataan    .54' Sale         Tobacco Areas
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG      _I                         3
--1 Guezn         X NORTUERN MINDANAO                            11                                   1
22, RzlSurigao del Norte               Sernan           L2,U.N
23 Cavite            7 Caniiguin       Fornond o               L        I                                                            16Z-
25; Batangas   59 Misamis Oriental                    4
M25 rintanua       601 Misamit Occidental'            l3\
276 MIndoroOriental  61 Lanaodel Norte
28 mndor Occdental  1 n62 k Laao del Sur                                             50   0    50   100  I50  200
32 MA ndoro Orcidental  u
,29: Romblon        641 Aaa kdeloSn        Tavl0                                                    SIoMETERS     20
~30 Pala.an        16lAu.dlSr(                         ob   ta                                    IOEE,R
I CoL                 1P5] Surigao del Sur               Cob  oto
1311 CaOrieLNoe    Xi SOUTHERN MINDANAO      17\16 -<5 
32' Caansr             Mag.ndanao          S9A 0  18  19
3 Catandanesur   67enNorth Cotubato  Olongo '- 6
331~~~Wol CatndcJs 1                              vcuanevevs 21 oS\II 
34'Albav            68 Davao o                                                                IPP      I     /      E A
35 'Sorogon         69 Da/a Oriental                                                              6
14   36: Manbate il      701 Davao del Sur
171 Sultan Kudarat  s           2                                                                                Id'
,South Cotabato                 -       Lut
souH CHIA 
17S         A                                         I     N'                               46 E A                                12'0
Puerto Pnincesa ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~coGuf                               ~
26
V         beundarias ehewn an thiaSULU  EAmapa
deha mpl has thee parpt. by the 
World Banks anstsaff.liats,-ay  Zosbantor,f 
tedgne     ofenthega status of' ~   .                        6                 us 
PAti   h.EA  n tspiorty.hC ortany  attachsied,  IIodo
C  INA   OAIWN            orah. d-ncea of sch aond rhes 
Sf A  VI~~~~~~ont py wtepato tei
CHINA
NOV            s                       ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~CELEBES  SEA
8RuNE
MALA  A,, I' ,---,7 
120'                    122'                  124'                    126'
I                                             I 






-1203T0'7
LA). OF '      *     .      TO BA TAC                                   4                   PHILIPPINES           121'000
yA    Qor,                                                              SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
)LUZ~9 -,A )   .*   ; _',A,BFD PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT LOCATION
. \PH L,ppafi SEA                              \\| DELINATED PRIORITY REFORESTATION AREA
(GROSS 33,000ha)
SEA                          B        s2                                               I fi    PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT AREAS(GROSS 4,300ha)
5  3  iii;  ' MOUyr  -03  PROPOSED CRC PULP MILL
CAYUJdLNGAN             ROADS
..(; RIVERS
vA~ ' 1lill z /  v \) /- fX- - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
0            5            10
-1UNVT                  0MILES
L '8E"ii' r   |)  - DAGOT  0     5       10      15
--       ~~~~Cabugao  0s?  ~
MOUNT BANTI ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    MUT ANG
S E A    tL                  Juan         t tMoLNT L4/      i   '                                           MOUI`'TBUMALAYAK
CRC
0  ,/ SJLanub  O LCONCESSION
San>  (;*  L>o/_ E t                             -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iunX
oetry Sti n
San Vi n te                                             alabn                                                      MOUNT MADOCAY
m-17°30'                                                                                UA|  '  )/  /tOX 8eK   g   *02/   LJIUNTPUL1TOC
m                  N~~~~~~~~~~Santa  ,   S            2           ?g              This map has been prepared bythhe Wo0rldBanks taff rescuiel for te onisedniene  w
zz   1#      /                         S             |            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries shown on this map do not imply, on the part of the World Hank and its
<~~~~~~~~~~ TCSANTA MARIA 120 30               /                            0 45o  acceptance of such boundaries,_
_V.  _   z   _   I  _  1   120145                        }       121°00'   _1
San~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



