Report No. 1696a-PH 1
Philippines
Appraisal of the                                                         1"N'
Smallholder Treefarming and Fo Tject
November 4, 1977                                                                  FILE   c
Regional Projects Department                                                      F    L         C
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00            Pesos (P) 7.4
P 1.00              US$ 0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =    0.3881 square miles
1 meter (m)                  =    39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (cu m)              35.31 cubic feet
1 millimeter (mm)                 0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                   2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BFD        -  Bureau of Forest Development (DNR)
BOI        -  Board of Investments
BPI        -  Bureau of Plant Industry (DA)
CRC        -  Cellophil Resources Corporation
DA         - Department of Agriculture
DATICOR    - Davao Timber Corporation
DBP        - Development Bank of the Philippines
DNR        - Department of Natural Resources
FORI       -  Forestry Research Institute
GMC        -  General Milling Corporation
MICO       - Mandaue Milling Corporation
MVC        -  Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation
PCARR      -  Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research
PICOP      -  Paper Industries Corporation of the Philippines
PROFEM     -  Program for Forest Ecosystem Management
RPPMI      -  Rustans Pulp and Paper Mills Incorporated
PCWID      -  Presidential Committee on Wood Industries Development
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                              i -ii
1. INTRODUCTION    ..
2.  BACKGROUND ......... . .1............. . .
General .1
The Forestry Sector.                                                2
Contribution to the Economy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
Forest Resources and their Maintenance  . . . . . . . . .        2
Institutional Responsibilities and Programs   . . . . . .        3
Ongoing Pilot Tree Farm Development  . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
3. THE PROJECT.5
General Description..                                               5
Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
Detailed Features                                                   6
A.  Smallholder Tree Farming Components.                        6
B.  Plantation Development Components  . . . . . . . . .        6
The Project Areas, Climate, Topography and Soils   . . . . .        7
A.  Smallholder Tree Farming . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
B.  Plantation Development Components  . . . . . . . . .        7
Species  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  7
Land Tenure and Farm Size.                                          8
A. Smallholder Tree Farming   . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
B. Plantation Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
Project Phasing.                                                    9
A.  Smallholder Tree Farming . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
B.  Plantation Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
Project Preparation Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
Wood Industry Development Study  . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
Cost Estimates and Financing    ..11
Costs  .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  11
Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
Procurement   ..13
A.  Smallholder Tree Farming . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
B.  Plantation Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
Disbursements   ..14
Accounts and Audit   ..15
Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. D. Forno, J. Andreu and C. Keil who visited the Philippines in
March/April, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
A.  Smallholder Treefarming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Lending Policies and Procedures   . . . . . . . . .    15
Technical Services and Market Agreements  . . . . .    16
Subloan Agreements.. . . . .                           16
Subloan Disbursements and Repayments  . . . . . . .    17
B.  Plantation Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
C.  Project Preparation Unit - DNR  . . . . . . . . . . .    18
D.  Project Preparation Unit - DA   . . . . . . . . . . .    18
5. MARKETS, PRICES AND REVENUES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
Markets  ..18
A.  Smallholder Treefarming   . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
B.  Plantation Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Prices and Revenues   ..19
A.  Smallholder Treefarming   . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
B.  Plantation Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Sector Development   ..21
Production   ..21
Employment and Income               . .                       21
Financial and Economic Viability . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Risks  .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .   .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .    .  .    .    .    .   .  .    .    .  22
7. RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . .                                     23
ANNEXES (attached to main report and preceeded by individual
table of contents)
1.  Implementing Agencies and Participating Companies
2. Market Prospects and Prices
3.  Treefarming:  Species, Technical Data and Farm Models
4.  Plantation Development:  Technical Details and Cost Estimates
5.  Research on Establishment, Marketing and Technical Aspects
Relating to Treefarming
6.  Phasing of Project Expenditures, Financing and Disbursements
7.  Economic Analysis
MAPS
No. 13076
No. 13077 BFD Plantation Development Location



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank technical
assistance and financing for their reforestation efforts throughout the
country, both by smallholders and by government services. This would
support the recently formulated National Program for Forest Ecosystem
Management (PROFEM), which has as its basic objectives, the reforestation
and protection of the Philippines' rapidly declining forest resources. The
project should be regarded as an important first step towards the longer
term objective of assisting widescale Government reforestation efforts by
helping to reduce some of the basic technological gaps in the sector. With
this in mind, the Annexes of the report have been prepared in some detail to
assist in project implementation.
2.        The project consists essentially of two main components: (a)
Smallholder Treefarming under supervised credit from the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP) and (b) Pine Plantation Development by the Bureau of
Forest Development (BFD). The components are complementary in the sense that
the tree farm subproject seeks to establish and demonstrate the technology
whereby smallholders on marginal agricultural and often steeply sloping
land, can obtain an improved and sustained source of income from their
farms. At the same time, the plantation subproject would seek to establish
an economically attractive mode of settling shifting cultivators and other
subsistence farmers who occupy Government forest lands and hinder implementa-
tion of large scale reforestation. Additionally, the project would provide
funds for the Departments of Natural Resources (DNR) and of Agriculture
(DA), to help set up and operate project planning of integrated national
programs in the forestry and agricultural sectors.
3.        The Smallholder Treefarming subproject would seek to encourage
farmers on marginal agricultural lands throughout the country to go into
treefarming for production of firewood, charcoal, pulpwood and leaf meal.
The subproject is innovative and experimental, and builds on the institutional
experiences of DBP in providing supervised credit for smallholder treefarming,
which was gained under a US$2 million Bank-financed pilot project with a
single species in one area of the country (ref. Loan 998-PH). Five private
companies would participate in the project by guaranteeing smallholders a
market and minimum price for their trees at maturity. Species grown would be
for the production of short fibre pulp, particle board, charcoal for use in
manufacturing polyvinyl resins, high protein leaf meal for use in livestock
feeds, and firewood, particularly in the four provinces of the Ilocos region
where firewood demands for tobacco curing have resulted in the clearing of
large areas of hill slope bush land and river basin catchments. Financial
rates of return from tree farming would be between 23 and 27%, except in the
case of leafmeal production, which would be over 50%. Research funds would
be provided to the Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research



- ii -
(PKARR), to assist studies into some of the more important agronomic, socio-
economic and marketing aspects of tree farming, which need to be resolved to
facilitate wide-scale expansion of agro-forestry development in the Philippines.
4.        The Plantation Development subproject would assist Government to
strengthen the project planning and implementation capabilites of BFD.
The project would also help to develop the technical parameters and expertise
needed to improve the Government's reforestation efforts, particularly with
plantings of the much needed long fibre pine species. The 3,000 ha of pine
to be established would initiate a program to plant an additional 10,000 ha
in the project area (Abra province). The project would also provide a
replicable model for pine plantation development throughout the country.
Already the value of pulp imports, mainly long fibre, amount to about US$30
million annually and this is expected to double by 1985. At the current rate
of cutting and reforestation, the forest resources of the Philippines have a
projected commercial life of less than 50 years.
5.        At full maturity the project would provide raw materials for produc-
tion of some 10,000 tons annually of short and 8,000 tons annually of long
fiber pulp, together valued at US$8 million, and representing gross import
savings of US$6.5 million. Particle board production from wood produced
under the project would amount to about 33,000 tons, valued at US$8 million
annually. Fuelwood and charcoal wood production, to the extent of some
400,000 cu m annually, would reduce crude oil imports by about US$2 million,
eliminate the need for about US$1.5 million of coal imports, and facilitate
the production of an additional US$0.7 million worth of polyvinyl resins and
related chemicals. High protein leaf meal production, to the extent of
about 55,000 tons yearly, would provide export earnings of some US$5.5 million.
6.        Total project costs would be US$16 million, and the loan amount,
US$8 million (50%) would be divided among the implementing agencies in the
following approximate proportions: 53% to DBP; 38% to DNR; 5% to DA and 4%
to PCARR. Although a relatively small loan, the project would provide some
7,400 smallholder families, on a total of about 28,600 ha, with a greatly
improved source of income from their otherwise marginal and often idle
holdings. Some 10,000 manyears of on-farm employment would result from the
establishment phase of the treefarm subproject and a further 1,100 manyears
annually would be required when the plantation development subproject reaches
2,000 ha/year. Benefits from treefarming itself and from employment created
by the project, would almost entirely accrue to the lower 40% income group of
the rural population. Resulting indirect benefits would include reduced
erosion and siltation problems, less flooding, prevention of grass and bush
fires and the creation of continuous employment for a large number of families
which so far have depended upon slash-and-burn cultivation of marginally
agricultural land.
7.        The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$8.0 million
for a period of 20 years with a 5 year grace period. The Borrower would be
the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance in
financing their reforestation efforts throughout the country, both by small-
holders and by government services. This would support the recently defined
National Program for Forest Ecosystem Management (PROFEM) which has, as its
basic objectives, the reforestation and protection of the Philippines forest
resources. The project would provide for the establishment and maintenance
of some 31,600 ha of industrial tree farms and plantations, mostly on denuded
land. It would be implemented both by smallholders (28,600 ha) under a super-
vised credit program of the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
and by the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) (3,000 ha).
1.02      In scope the project is innovative and experimental, i.e. in regard
to promoting tree farm development by smallholders, establishing much needed
pine plantations by BFD and in learning how to cope with the widespread problem
of shifting cultivation and grazing in forest reserves. In size, however, the
project is constrained by BFD's implementation capability, technical unknowns,
and because of the time needed to demonstrate the potential rewards from tree
farming, particularly among smallholders on marginal agricultural land who
are among the poorest of the rural sector and to whom institutionalized credit
is an unknown factor. While the immediate benefits of the project would be
small, relative to the overall needs of the country in the much neglected
area of forest resource and watershed maintenance, the area to be planted
under the project would nevertheless amount to about 50% of the area to be
planted by BFD if its present rate of reforestation continued. The project
would help launch the Government's program for forest ecosystem management
and establish a sound planning and technical base for its implementation and
expansion.
1.03      The project was identified jointly by the Government and the Bank,
with CP/FAO assisting in project preparation. This report is based on the
findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in March-
April 1977, composed of Messrs. D. A. Forno, J. Andreu and C. Keil.
2. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 sq km scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the South China Sea. The 45
largest islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 43
million (1975) and grows at a rate of about 2.8% annually. Real GNP, which
had a growth rate of 5-6% annually in the 1960s, grew by 10% in 1973 due to
high prices for export commodities. From 1974 to 1976, however, it grew by
only about 6% annually as some industries were adversely affected by the
recession in the Philippines' trading partners. Inflation related to high



-2-
export prices and increased oil and food prices was a major problem in 1974,
but abated markedly in 1975. Unequal income distribution and underemployment
remain major economic problems.
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half is
forest land and about one-third is cultivated. About 2.0 to 2.5 million ha
of fairly level land is still available for growing crops, although some
1.0 million ha of this is cogon grassland (Cylindrica imperata). Cogon also
covers about 5 million ha of the public forest land which has become denuded
through the actions of shifting cultivators, illegal logging, bush fires and
grazing.
The Forestry Sector
2.03      Contribution to the Economy.   Exports of forest products
became an increasingly important source of foreign exchange during the 1950s
and 1960s. Starting from negligible amounts in the early 1950s, exports of
logs and other forest products rose to about US$300 million by 1970 and
accounted for 27% of export earnings. The growth in earnings in the first
half of the 1970s was constrained by increasing difficulties in expanding log
production and the relatively slow growth in overseas demand, especially in
1974-75. However, earnings from wood products are projected to rise by an
average of about 20% a year during 1976-85, as processed wood products
replace exports of logs in line with Government policy to increase the value
added benefits from forest products. Log exports are expected to be phased
out by 1985, when earnings are projected to be about US$1.4 billion.
2.04      Forest Resources and their Maintenance.  Forest lands cover an
estimated 18 million ha (60% of total land area), of which about 8 million ha
are commercially exploitable and some 5 million ha already denuded. Mostly
the forests are dipterocarp (short fiber species). The long fiber pine
forests cover only about 0.2 million ha, and occur mainly in inaccessible
areas. Each year some 0.2 million ha of forest are logged over, but reforest-
ation by BFD compensates for only 5% of the forest cut. Furthermore, much of
BFD's reforestation efforts have concentrated on restoring ground cover, with
little attention being given to planting of species for ultimate commercial
use. Also, follow-up maintenance of reforested areas has been lacking,
resulting in much of the plantings being destroyed by weeds, animals or fires.
2.05      The situation is worsened through the activities of Kaingineros
(shifting cultivators). These squatters frequently move into virgin and
logged-over areas, clear cut existing vegetation and plant subsistence
crops for one to three seasons before moving on. Such areas are quickly
covered by cogon grass, thereby suppressing regeneration of tree growth
and adding to bush-fire hazards.
2.06       As population grows, so the pressure on the forest resources in
the Philippines increases. Already imports of pulp, mainly long fiber, are
almost 100,000 tons annually. By 1985, Bank projections are for the Philip-
pines domestic demand for paper and paperboard to increase from current
demand of around 400,000 tons, valued at US$250 million, to 800,000 tons,
or US$500 million annually. However, the strategy for wood industry



-3-
development in the country has not been clearly defined. While the Board of
Investments (BOI) provides a techno-economic check on the viability of new
wood industry ventures, criteria for determining location and type of wood
industry development, need to be better formulated with regard to such factors
as existing and planned wood resource establishment, employment, environment,
and other industry development (see para. 4.09).
2.07      Fuelwood demands are also growing, both due to the rapid rise in
oil price and population pressure. Although much of the fuelwood comes
from noncommercial forests, the effect of continuous fuelwood cutting is
serious. More than 5 million ha of largely sloping land in the Philippines
are now denuded, leading to serious erosion and siltation problems in rivers
and dams and a perennial fire problem which yearly causes destruction of
surrounding wooded areas.
2.08      Institutional Responsibilities and Programs.  Responsibility
for the maintenance and regulation of forest resources and products lies
with the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD), a line agency of the Department
of Natural Resources (Annex 1). Its mandate for operations is contained in
the Revised Forestry Code, introduced in 1975 as Presidential Decree 705.
Emphasis in the Code is given to (a) acceleration of land survey and classi-
fication; (b) protection, development and rehabilitation of forest lands; (c)
rationalization and expansion of the wood processing industry; and (d)
strengthening of forest research. BFD, however, is unable to adequately
enforce regulations contained in the Forestry Code, although enforcement has
been stepped up in recent years.
2.09      However, apart from legislation which appears adequate, alleviation
of the problem of forest destruction requires a two pronged approach.
Firstly, the increasing needs of rural people for firewood and building
material must be realized; and secondly, the cooperation and/or involvement
of an area's inhabitants must be obtained if reforestation efforts are to be
successful. Thus, while legislation has been enacted outlawing indiscri-
minate cutting of forest lands, there is a growing awareness by Government
and private forest-concession holders that they must also provide for the needs
of local inhabitants. The Government, through the recently formed Presidential
Council for Forest Ecosystem Management (PROFEM), has therefore adopted a
number of measures designed to create conservation awareness among the rural
population.
2.10      While BFD's Division of Reforestation and Afforestation acts as
Secretariat of PROFEM, the program is to be implemented by all Government
agencies concerned with the rural sector. Foremost in the program of PROFEM
is the stimulation of interest in commercial woodlot and individual tree
planting activities in rural areas.  Government concern at the rate of
forest destruction is exemplified by the recent Presidential Decree requiring
"every able-bodied Filipino ten years old or more residing in the country to
plant one tree every month." The success of Government efforts to maintain and
hopefully improve their forest resource base, however, will depend largely on
effective regulation of logging in existing forests and the implementation
of well-planned reforestation efforts by Government and private concession



- 4 -
holders, and through commercial scale tree farm or commercial woodlot develop-
ment. Complementary to this would be a change in attitude of the people as
a whole towards conservation, but this can only be realized when their basic
needs for firewood and rough building materials are met relatively cheaply
from commercial tree farms, woodlots, etc.
Ongoing Pilot Tree Farm Development
2.11      Tree farming in the Philippines commenced in the late 1960's when
a company, Paper Industries Corporation of the Philippines (PICOP), launched
a program aimed at (a) ensuring raw material supplies for its mill complex,
and (b) improving the socio-economic position of smallholders surrounding
the company's concession at Bislig in Mindanao. Subsequently, in 1972, the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), began providing tree farming
loans to these smallholders in close cooperation with PICOP. Then in 1974,
US$2 million was provided by the Bank to DBP to expand its Tree Farm Loan
Program around PICOP (ref. Loan 998-PH). Participating farmers grew Albizzia
falcataria for pulpwood and were guaranteed a market and minimum price for
their trees at harvest from the seventh year onwards. Originally, it was
envisaged that this would be a four-year project, but disbursements are well
ahead of schedule. At the time of this appraisal, about US$1 million had
been disbursed, double that originally envisaged. Commitments totalled about
US$1.2 million and would have been even greater, but for recent staff short-
ages at the DBP branch office and resultant large backlogs in subloan
approvals. This, in fact, has been the only important problem to arise under
the Bank's pilot project, and several steps would be taken under the proposed
project to remove these and other processing constraints (Annex 1). Funds
provided under the Pilot Tree Farm Project are expected to be fully committed
by mid-1978.
2.12      The success of the Pilot Project is due largely to the efforts of
PICOP and DBP, and the considerable benefits being derived by both smallholders
and PICOP from tree farming. Although it is still too early for full benefits
to be derived from the Bank assisted tree farm activities, those smallholders
who planted under the original scheme are deriving income from thinnings
(supervised by PICOP) in the fourth and fifth years of the planting. At
appraisal of the Pilot Project, income was not expected until the eighth year.
About 50 cu m/ha of thinnings are being obtained, giving a gross income of
about P 2,250/ha (US$306). PICOP has raised its guaranteed minimum stumpage
price from P 15/cu m to P 20/cu m but actual stumpage prices have been
about P 40 to 50/cu m. Companies participating under the proposed project
will also be able to provide technical services, market and price guarantees
(see para. 4.03 and Annex 2).
2.13      PICOP has benefited greatly from the program, both through the
establishment of wood resources for its pulp mill, and closer cooperation
with smallholders in and around its concession. The forest concession is
now less subject to frequent damage from bush fires and Kainginero (shifting
cultivator) activity. PICOP has also achieved good public relations value
from the project. Hence, under the presently proposed Smallholder Tree
Farming subproject, four companies producing a variety of products have indi-
cated their desire to participate in smallholder tree farming activities.



3. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01      The project, formulated in close cooperation with the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP), the Department of Natural Resources (DNR), and
the Department of Agriculture (DA), provides for a multifaceted approach to
reforestation. Building on the experiences gained from the US$2 million Bank-
financed Pilot Project (Loan 998-PH), supervised credit for tree farming would
be provided to smallholders through DBP, this time with five private companies
participating. Each of these companies would guarantee markets and a minimum
price for trees at maturity. Species grown would be for the production of
short fiber pulp, particle board, charcoal for use in the manufacture of
polyvinyl resin, and high protein leaf meal for use in livestock feeds.
Supervised credit would also be provided for large areas of firewood produc-
tion in the four provinces of the Ilocos region, where firewood demands for
tobacco curing have resulted in the clearing of large areas of hill-slope
bush land (see Map 13076).
3.02      A second line of funding under the proposed loan would go to the
Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) to upgrade their reforestation implemen-
tation capacity. More specifically, the project would initiate commercial
scale reforestation by BFD with long fiber, fast-growing pine species, mainly
Pinus caribaea. In this first Bank assistance to BFD, the project would
concentrate on a single area in the Province of Abra of Northern Luzon
(see Map 13077). The planting of pine species would also initiate a program
aimed at reducing the country's deficit in long fiber pulp, and complement
the faster growing short fiber pulp species being planted by smallholders
under the Pilot Project (i.e. 8-year rotation for Albizzia vs. 15-year
rotation for pine).
Objectives
3.03      The two components of the project are complementary.  By assisting
the BFD to strengthen its project planning and implementation capabilities,
and by initiating industrial-scale reforestation with long fiber species, the
project would help to pave the way for wide-scale, industrial reforestation.
To achieve the latter, however, it would be necessary to have developed an
economically attractive mode of resettling occupants of government forest
lands and of providing them with employment opportunities. Also, by assist-
ing smallholders to develop tree farms, the project would seek to demonstrate
that tree farming could serve as a lucrative crop for the very large numbers
of smallholders and subsistence farmers on marginal agricultural lands who
presently contribute to the destruction of forest and logged-over lands,
causing serious wood resource and wildlife destruction, erosion, siltation
and water shortage problems.



-6-
Detailed Features
The Project would provide:
3.04      A.  Smallholder Tree Farming Components:
(i) Supervised credit and technical services for tree farm
development for some 7,400 smallholders occupying about
28,600 ha of marginal agricultural land.
(ii)  Increased nursery capacity and facilities for BPI in the
Ilocos region to facilitate production and distribution of
giant Ipil-Ipil seedlings to sub-borrowers.
(iii) Vehicles, motorbikes and office equipment for DBP branch
offices serving the project area.
(iv) Research into aspects of the project. which would facilitate
monitoring of tree farm development, and subsequent expan-
sion of the programs. In particular studies would be
conducted on impact on income distribution, agronomic
factors affecting tree growth, marketability, processing and
efficiency of wood use in domestic ovens.
(v) Provision of market agreements and minimum price guarantees
by four participating companies./l
3.05      B.  Plantation Development Components
(i) Nursery facilities including worksheds, irrigation facilities,
and importation of seed.
(ii)  Development of 3,000 ha of trial pine plantations (Pinus caribaea),
in Abra province of Northern Luzon, thereby initiating a program
for planting some further 10,000 ha in the Abra region.
(iii) Construction and maintenance of forest roads, paths, firebreaks
and watchtowers.
(iv)  Project headquarter buildings, machine and storage sheds, staff
quarters and supporting facilities for management and technical
staff.
(v) Specialist technical services and incremental staff manpower
requirements.
/1 The five companies, and the extent of their participation would be (a) for
leaf meal production - General Milling Corp. (GMC), 5,000 ha; and Mandaue
Manufacturing Industries Corp. (MICO), 500 ha; (b) for charcoal produc-
tion - Mabuhay Vinyl Corp. (MVC), 3,700 ha; (c) for particle board produc-
tion - Davao Timber Corp. (DATICOR), 4,000 ha; and (d) for pulpwood - Rustans
Pulp and Paper Mills (RPPMI); 2,400 ha.



-7-
(vi)  A Steering Committee to annually approve and monitor the work
program.
(vii)  Consultants, travel, and other such support funds for strengthening
the Planning Service of DNR through the establishment of a Projects
Preparation Unit.
(viii)  Consultant services for conducting a Wood Industry Development Study
to assist in rationalizing forestry sector planning.
3.06      The project would also provide for the establishment of a Project
Preparation Unit within the Department of Agriculture to improve project
identification and preparation. Funds would be provided for incremental
staff and office equipment, short-term consultants, and travel expenses. Both
the Departments of Agriculture and Natural Resources would therefore be assisted
under the project to set up and operate project planning and preparation units.
Since both units would be established under the Office of the respective
Secretary, this would help remove past constraints due to inadequate and often
uncoordinated sector planning. and project preparation.
The Project Areas, Climate, Topography and Soils
3.07      A.  Smallholder Tree Farming.  Of the 28,600 ha of tree farm develop-
ment to be financed under the project, 10,100 ha would be located in Mindanao,
5,500 ha in the Visayas and 8,000 ha in the Ilocos region of Northern Luzon.
Funds for a further 5,000 ha would be provided for tree farm development in
other parts of the country. It is anticipated that, apart from the areas and
market outlets specifically identified, the project would stimulate interest
in tree farming among smallholders in many other parts of the country. For
example, in the Davao region there are indications that some 500 ha of Giant
Ipil-Ipil plantings for production of banana props would be financially re-
warding. DBP would be responsible for apportioning credit provided for the
additional 5,000 ha, subject to demand, satisfactory financial aspects and
to the land being best suited for tree farming. All of the areas identified
for tree farm development have satisfactory climates and soil types to sustain
the growth rates on which the financial projections are made (Annex 3).
3.08      B.  Plantation Development.  The 3,000 ha of trial pine plantation
to be established under the project by BFD would be located in Abra province
in Northern Luzon. The section to be planted forms part of a minimum 15,000 ha
area in the catchment of the Abra river, which has been identified by BFD as a
priority reforestation area for pulpwood production and soil conservation
purposes (see Map 13077). Soil type and climate in the project is suited to
the growing of Pinus caribaea.
Species
3.09      The species to be used for Treefarming would be mainly Giant Ipil
Ipil (Leucaena leucocephala) and Albizzia falcataria. Both are fast growing
leguminous species and considerable experience with their cultivation already
exists in the Philippines. Giant Ipil Ipil produces a hardwood suitable for
firewood and charcoal, and its leaves can be used for feeding livestock. The
leaves have nutritive value similar to that of alfalfa. Albizzia, on the
other hand, produces a soft wood suitable for pulping (short fibre) and



particle board production. For the plantation development subproject, Pinus
caribaea would be used. This is a fast growing tropical pine suited to low
elevations, but relatively little experience with the species exists in the
Philippines, particularly in the drier areas. However, it grows well in
countries such as Fiji, Australia and Brazil with similar environments to
that in the project area (Abra province).
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.10      A.  Smallholder Tree Farming.  To be eligible for tree farm credit
under the project, borrowers would be required to have either freehold title,
homestead lease, or leasehold rights (Annex 1). DBP would also satisfy
itself that such lands are marginal agricultural lands best suited for tree
crops, because of slope, soils, distance from markets, etc.
3.11      Average subloan size under the Tree Farming Project has been for
tree farm plantings of 11 to 15 ha, and in fact more than 93% of loans so
far committed have been for amounts under P20,000 (US$2,720), i.e. 15 ha
equivalent. Less than 1% of borrowings have been for plantings of more than
25 ha. Therefore, since land occupancy and proposed tree farm development
around the DATICOR and RPPMI concessions are similar to that around PICOP,
it is expected that for the new DATICOR, and RPPMI components, tree farm size
would be mainly for plantings of between 7 and 15 ha with an average around
10 ha. However, tree farms for production of firewood and charcoal would be
smaller due to generally smaller sized holdings. An average tree farm size
of 5 ha is expected. For leaf meal production even smaller farms would be
developed, e.g. 2 ha average, due to much smaller holdings and because
harvesting of leaves for leafmeal production is very labor intensive; 2 ha of
plantings would be all that an average farm family could manage by themselves.
Based on the experiences of the Pilot Project, however, it could be expected
that during the first few years of the project, farm size will tend to be
larger than average with increasing numbers of smaller holdings coming into
the project towards the end.
3.12      B.  Plantation Development.  Only Government forest lands free from
forest concession holders would be reforested under the project. The proposed
area in Abra covers a plantable area of at least 15,000 ha, which when
reforested would constitute a relatively large plantation. Inherent in any
logged-over or denuded forest lands in the Philippines, are the problems of
pasture lease and permit holdings, squatters, shifting cultivators and uncon-
fined grazing of cattle. In Abra these problems are less than in other
possibly more suitable reforestation areas. However, since the problem of
population pressure is the major constraint to forest development, the less
densely populated Abra region was chosen. The 3,000 ha delineated for the
project is virtually free of pasture permits and leases, and there is scope
for reforesting a relatively contiguous total area of some 15,000 ha. Within
the project area, however, unauthorized grazing is occurring, but herd popula-
tions are very low since the land is mostly covered with cogon. Nevertheless,
the initial plantings would need to be fenced and fire breaks and towers
maintained and patrolled. Also, the project would provide for forestry
extension activities, whereby families occupying land to be reforested would
be given employment opportunities in the replanting program on a priority



- 9 -
basis. Thus, while the problem of illegal and legal inhabitants does exist
and provides an opportunity for Government to determine how best to meet
their needs, the problem is only minor and would not endanger the project's
success. The number of households to be moved would probably be of the order
of 50-100. At negotiations, it was agreed that BFD would not issue or renew
any pasture permits or leases in the project area or in the declared priority
Abra river basin and that Government would assist in providing suitable land
ouside the project area and alternative employment opportunities for any
household displaced by the project (para. 7.04).
Project Phasing,
3.13      A.  Smallbolder Treefarming:  The rate at which tree farm develop-
ment occurs in t'e various subproject areas would depend largely on the
effort expenided bLy the participating companies and the DBP branch offices.
Developrner.r m'ijections, based on the mission's estimates, are given below:
Tree Spe'ijes!           Area of Tree farm Development (ha)        Total       Total
Purpose               Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  Area (ha)  No. Farms
For tobacco curing /a 600    1,900       4,000      4,000    10,500        2,100
For charcoal           700    1,000      1,000      1,000      3,700         750
for leaf meal /a       700    1,800      2,500      3,000      8,000       3,900
B.  Albizzia falcata
For pulpwood           400       600        700       700      2,400         250
For particle board    500        900     1,300      1,300      4,000         400
Totals          2,900    6,200      9,500    10,000    28,600        7,400
/a  Asssumes that 5,000 ha of unspecified tree farm development would be
divided equally between plantings for firewood and leaf meal.
3.14      Development would be expected to be fast around Iligan where the
company, MVC, has already been actively stimulating interest among small-
holders in tree farming. Likewise development of Albizzia under contract
with RPPMI, a company recently taken over by PICOP, would be quite rapid
due to PICOP's considerable experiences with on-going tree farm development.
Slowest development could be expected in the Ilocos region, where although
market demand is large, no company is involved to add to the stimulus for
tree farm development. DBP and BPI would therefore have to be particularly
active in stimulating interest among smallholders in the Ilocos region. DBP,
with the assistance of BPI, would be responsible for providing appropriate
extension services and literature to tree farm developers and actively
promote such development.



- 10 -
3.15      Concurrent with smallholder treefarm development, research funded
under the project into various aspects of treefarming would be coordinated
by PCARR, the Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research. In
particular, the research would concentrate on ways of optimizing treefarm
establishment, maintenance and profitability (Annex 5). Studies on income
distribution before and after the project, including the ongoing project,
would be conducted also. This would be done in coordination with DBP and
would greatly complement DBP's monitoring of the project's effectiveness,
both in terms of the institutional and development aspects. It was agreed at
negotiations that PCARR would submit details of research projects to the Bank
for review by May 31, 1978, and that progress reports on such studies would
be submitted annually for Bank review (para. 7.03 (iv)).
3.16      B.  Plantation Development:  Because of the rapidly increasing
deficit of long fibre pulp in the Philippines and the depletion of natural
pine resources, (Annex 2), the project is especially designed to facilitate
rapid testing of Pinus caribaea strains and development of techniques for
pine plantation development. Seed of the various strains of Pinus caribaea
would have to be imported.  In the first three years of the project, field
trial plantings would cover some 400 ha and thereafter, plantation scale
development would begin with plantings of 600 ha and 2,000 ha in the fourth
and fifth years respectively. A further 10-12,000 ha of government forest
suitable for pine plantation also adjoins the project area. Surveys and
plannings for continuing plantation development in Abra would be conducted
during the project.
3.17      Some 80 man-years of labor would be used during the first year, and
this would increase to about 1,100 man-years when wide scale plantation
development begins in the fifth year. Annex 4, Tables 3 and 8 provide a
breakdown of labor and staff requirements by activity. From population and
farm statistics in the Abra region, there would appear to be sufficient labor
available to meet peak labor demands, but the effectiveness of the forestry
extension activities (para. 3.12) will be critical in determining to what
extent the inhabitants of the project area would be employed by the project.
3.18      Project Preparation Units. The project would assist both the
Departments of Agriculture (DA) and Natural Resources (DNR) to strengthen
their project planning capabilities. In DNR the central unit responsible for
planning development of the forestry sector would be strengthened. In DA a
new unit would be established with responsibility for planning and preparing
agricultural projects. The organization and functions of these units are
discussed more fully in paras. 4.09-4.10 and in Annex 1.
3.19      Wood Industry Development Study.  Under the project, funds would be
provided for some 8 man-years of consultant services to assist the Planning
Service of DNR in conducting a study of wood industry development in the
Philippines. In scope, the study would cover pulp and paper and the mechani-
cal forest industries, and link the industrial development with the long-term
availability of raw materials. Investment proposals would be investigated in
terms of national, regional and provincial planning goals, taking into consider-
ation such factors as employment, environment, other industries and transport



- 11 -
flow. The study would explore domestic and export market prospects and would
guide investments in the direction of maximum foreign earnings and import
substitutions. The study would develop a national investment straegy for the
sector to maximize benefits to the national economy on a sustained basis.
Draft terms of reference are given in Annex 1, Attachment 4. At negotiations
it was agreed that DNR would submit TOR's to the Bank for review by June 30,
1978 and that consultants for the study would be hired by December 31, 1978.
Cost Estimates and Financing
3.20      Costs.  Total project costs are estimated at US$16 million, of
which about US$3.5 million or 22% is foreign exchange. All prices and
salaries are expressed at November, 1977 levels. Physical contingencies of
10% for plantation development are included and amount to 2% of total project
costs. Costs due to expected price increases amount to 20% of base project
costs, and are calculated assuming the following inflationary rates:
1978/80     1981/82
…____        -(%) …------
Domestic                        7             7
Foreign Exchange
(a)  Civil works               7.5           7
(b) Fertilizer, vehicles
& equipment               9             8
Price contingencies have been included for the credit component of the
project since the area of treefarm development to be financed would be largely
fixed by market agreements. Furthermore, a reduction in the area financed due
to price increases would greatly reduce the impact of the project in promoting
treefarm development among smallholders. Project components and their costs
are shown in the following table:



- 12 -
PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
(Pesos million)           (US$ million)             %
A.  Smallholder Treefarming
I.  On farm investments /a
G. Ipil Ipil for firewood        20.2    2.2    22.4        2.7     0.3      3.0        10
G. Ipil Ipil for charcoal         7.4    0.5       7.9      1.0     0.05    1.1          9
G. Ipil Ipil for leaf meal    12.9    2.5    15.4           1.8     0.3      2.1        14
Albizzia for pulpwood             2.8    0.2       3.0      0.37    0.03    0.4          8
Albizzia for particle board    4.7    0.4          5.1      0.65    0.05    0.7          7
Administration                    2.5    0.4       2.9      0.34    0.05    0.4         15
Subtotal                   50.5    6.2    56.7        6.9      0.8      7.7       10
II.  BPI nursery expansion             0.3    0.4       0.7      0.04    0.05    0.1         60
III.  PCARR Research                     1.3    1.2      2.5      0.18    0.16    0.34        47
B. Plantation Development
I.  Development costs                14.4    7.4    21.8        1.9      1.0      2.9       34
II. Training and technical
assistance                      0.9    0.4       1.3     0.1      0.05    0.15       25
Subtotal                   15.3    7.8    23.1        2.0      1.05    3.05       34
C.  I. Forestry Project Dev.Unit           3.0    0.7       3.7     0.4      0.1      0.5       20
II. Wood industries study               1.9    3.7      5.6      0.25    0.5       0.75      67
D.  Agric. Project Prep. Unit              3.0    0.7       3.7     0.4      0.1      0.5       20
Total base cost             75.3   20.7    96.0    10.0        2.8    12.9        18
Physical contingencies                 1.8    0.5      2.3      0.24    0.06    0.3         20
Price contingencies                  14.8    5.0    19.8        2.0      0.7      2.7       25
E.  Total Project Cost                    91.9   26.2   118.1    12.5        3.5    16.0        22
/a  Cost breakdown by inputs shown in Annex 1, Table 4.
Note: Discrepencies due to rounding.
Costs do not include about 2,500 man-years of beneficiaries' family labor.



- 13 -
3.21      Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$8.0 million would finance
50% of total project costs, including about US$3.5 million of local costs.
The approximate amount to be financed according to implementing agency are
detailed below.
FINANCING
(US$ million)
Beneficiaries  Government   IBRD          Total/a
Components              US$M       Z   US$M     % US$M    % US$M   %
A.  Smallholder Treefarming
DBP supervised credit        0.6       6    4.7    49   4.2   44   9.5  100
BPI:  nursery expansion       -        -    0.06   60   0.04  40   0.1  100
PCARR:  research              -        -    0.05   15   0.3   85   0.4  100
B.  Plantation Development (BFD)  -         -    2.2    50   2.2   50   4.4  100
C. Forestry Development Unit
(DNR)                         -       -    0.1    20   0.35  80   0.45 100
Wood Industries Dev. Study    -         -    0.1    15   0.6   85   0.7  100
D. Agric. Proj. Prep. Unit (DA)
-       -    0.1    20   0.35  80   0.45 100
E.  Total Project Financing        0.6      4    7.4    46   8.0   50  16.0  100
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.
3.22      The Bank loan would be to the Government for 20 years including
5 years of grace. Commitments would be made over 4 years and funds would
be disbursed for 5 years, to allow for phasing of individual tree farm
development and plantation establishment. Proceeds of the loan would be
apportioned approximately in the following amounts: US$4.2 million to DBP;
US$2.2 million to BFD; US$0.35 million to both the Project Preparation Units
in the Department of Natural Resources and Agriculture plus; US$0.6 million
for a Wood Industry Development Study by DNR; US$0.3 million to PCARR; and
US$0.04 million to BPI. Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
for the entire Bank loan. Funds for DBP would be onlent by Government on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan (including interest rate and grace
period). Since the longest term subloan would be for 14 years inlcuding 7
years of grace, and since commitments woud take place over 4 years, it is not
expected that the Bank loan of 20 years would cause any significant roll-over
problem for DBP. Government would provide the necessary counterpart funds
for the project and disburse upon request and in a manner ensuring timely
flow of funds to the project (para. 7.04).
Procurement
3.23      A.  Smallholder Treefarming.  Land clearing, weeding and harvesting
would be done by the farmers themselves or with hired labor. Giant Ipil-Ipil



- 14 -
and Albizzia planting material would be supplied at cost by the private com-
panies participating in the project, while BPI nurseries and private sources
would supply Giant Ipil-Ipil seedlings for firewood production. Fertilizer
would be purchased by smallholders through regular commercial outlets which
are widely distributed throughout the country. Amounts of seed and fertilizer
(total cost $1.25 million over 5 years) would not be large enough to justify
international competitive bidding. Motor bikes, jeeps, office and other
equipment, valued at US$37,000 for DBP, US$53,000 for BPI and US$130,000 for
PCARR, would be procured locally by DBP, BPI or PCARR, respectively, in accor-
dance with government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts of more
than $50,000 would be advertised locally. Foreign firms are well represented
in the Philippines and would be eligible to participate provided they could
supply satisfactory repair facilities and after-sales service. Bulk procure-
ment and international competitive bidding would not be warranted because the
individual contracts would be relatively small as there is a wide variety of
items to be procured and purchases would be phased over a four-year period.
3.24      B.  Plantation Development.  Pinus caribaea seed would be obtained
from foreign sources. Purchases would be in accordance with international
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank from among the limited number of
suppliers. Annual requirements for fertilizer during the early years of
implementation would be relatively small and would gradually increase to
270,000 tons ($60,000) during the last year of the project. Purchases
amounting to less than US$50,000 would be from local commercial outlets in
accordance with Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Likewise,
vehicles and equipment for BFD and the project preparation units ($415,000)
would be procured in accordance with Government procedures which are accept-
able to the Bank. However, contracts for equipment and materials of more
than $50,000 would be advertised locally and foreign firms would be eligible
to participate provided they could supply satisfactory repair facilities and
after-sales services. Contracts for civil works totalling about US$600,000
over five years would not be large enough to attract international contrac-
tors. Such contracts costing more than $50,000 would be tendered through
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Bank.
3.25      Disbursements.  The proposed loan would be disbursed for 40% of the
value of subloans made and equipment and materials procured by DBP. The loan
would also be disbursed for vehicles and equipment, civil works, consultant
services and incremental staff salaries for the project on the basis of: 40%
for BFD and BPI, 85% for PCARR and 80% for the project preparation units of the
Department of Natural Resources and the Department of Agriculture, including
those expenditures for the Wood Industry Development Study.  The relatively
high percentage for PCARR and the project preparation units reflects the fact
that a Bank loan would, in these cases, be financing entirely new programs and
activities which are expected to expand rapidly in the years ahead. Withdrawal
applications would be supported by certification of expenditures from the
appropriate authority in each agency and supporting documentation would be
retained by each agency for review during Bank supervision missions. The
submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank from the various implementing
agencies would be coordinated by DBP.



- 15 -
Accounts and Audit
3.26      All agencies responsible for implementing the project are Govern-
ment and their accounts are audited annually by the Governments Commission
on Audit (COA). In the case of DBP a series of measures have been agreed
between DBP and COA, whereby COA would not only audit DBP's accounts but
recommend appropriate corrective actions also (ref Loan 1190-PH). The
project implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for the
project and would send copies of the audited reports to the Bank within three
months of the close of each fiscal year, until full disbursement of the loan
(para. 7.04). Such reports would include the independent auditors view on
whether or not the loan funds have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided.
3.27      Environmental Effects.  The project would revegetate some 31,000 ha
of denuded sloping land throughout the Philippines. Even more importantly, it
would establish the technology and expertise for much larger reforestation
efforts. Hence the project would have significant direct and indirect environ-
mental benefits through upgrading the wood resource base, and through reducing
the serious erosion and siltation problems occurring throughout the Philippines.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Smallholder Treefarming
4.01      This component of the project would be executed by DBP in close
cooperation with the participating companies of RPPMI, DATICOR, MVC, MICO
and GMC. Overall supervision of the project would be maintained by the
Supervising Governor of DBP, responsible for the Agricultural Projects
Department I (APDI), (Annex 1). Management of the Tree farming loan program
would be the responsibility of the Assistant Manager in charge of the crops
group, of the Agricultural Projects Department (APDI). Day to day field
operations, however, would be the responsibility of the local DBP Branch
Managers. Supervision of subloans would be improved, through the use of a
simple technical information sheet maintained for each subborrower (Annex 1).
These sheets would list pertinent agronomic, sevicultural and socio-economic
indices which would be noted at each supervision and greatly facilitate
monitoring of the project on technical and financial grounds. DBP would
annually monitor, a statistically selected sample of subloans from each
subproject area, including the ongoing pilot project area and submit the
monitoring report to the Bank together with an overall progress report in
accordance with the procedures agreed at negotiations (para 7.03 i).
4.02      Lending Policies and Procedures.  Subloans would be made by DBP
Branch offices directly to project beneficiaries whose loan applications would
be evaluated with regard to technical, financial and economic feasibility as
well as creditworthiness. DBP technicians, mainly agronomists and foresters,
would be especially trained in all aspects of tree farm development and be
assisted in the field as necessary by two forestry specialists attached to
DBP's main office in Manila. Branch managers have authority to approve
subloans of up to P 150,000 (or such other limit as DBP may decide from



- 16 -
time to time) subject to confirmation by DBP's Board. Subloans would be
secured in accordance with normal DBP procedures (see Annex 1). Based upon
the interest schedule agreed at the negotiations for the Second Industrial
Investment Project, DBP would charge 12.0% per annum for the loans secured by
land and 14.0% for loans otherwise secured.  Any future change in the rates
DBP charges on its loans in general would be made applicable to commitment of
subloans under the project. Since the average cost of the money to DBP would
be about 8.5%, the margin would be a minimum of 3.5% and there would be an
additional 2.0% to cover the risks on loans not secured by land, these rates
should be adequate and, at the same time provide an acceptable real rate of
interest of 5.0 to 7.0%, in view of the Philippines' projected long-term
inflation rate of 7.0%. The borrowers would be required to pay other addi-
tional charges, such as (i) a one-time application fee of P 60 to P 500
depending on the amount of subloan and (ii) penalty interest charges of 3.0%
per month on arrears of 60 days or more.
4.03      Technical Services and Market Agreements.  Subloan approval would
be contingent upon the execution of marketing agreements between participat-
ing companies and applicants in the areas served by DATICOR, RPPMI, MVC, MICO
and GMC (see para. 2.12 and Annex 1). The participating companies would also
provide seedlings/seeds and technical assistance to farmers where and when
required to enable satisfactory tree farm establishment. Memoranda of
agreement between DBP and each of the participating companies would set forth
the obligations of each (Annex 1). In the Ilocos region of northern Luzon,
where tree farming would be done without assistance of a participating
company, the project would assist the Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) to
expand their nurseries and services to meet the technical needs of tree
farmers (Annex 1). BPI is already active in raising and distributing seed-
lings of many species throughout the country and in the Ilocos region of
Northern Luzon, they have several such nurseries which could be utilized.
DBP also plans to provide tree farm subborrowers with a limited amount of
short-term production credit 'f required. This would normally not be more
than P 500 per sub borrower, but would assist smallholders to improve their
cultivation of cash crops on the better parts of their lands.
4.04      Since the subproject is intended to finance mainly small and medium
scale farmers and in particular those occupying marginal agricultural lands,
the task of providing effective and timely supervised credit would be diffi-
cult. DBP would employ at least an additional 22 technical staff, over a
period of 4 years, to be distributed among the Branch offices serving the
project (see Annex 1). Such personnel would be assigned to serving the tree
farming project on a priority basis and should be given adequate training for
the job. Vehicles would be provided under the Project to ensure adequate
mobility for field staff. A forestry specialist would also be hired and
attached to headquarters. He would complement the functions of the other
forestry specialist already on staff at headquarters, in training staff in
technical aspects relating to tree farm development and in conducting at
least six monthly field inspections.
4.05      Subloan Agreements would be based on the actual needs of borrowers
but should not exceed P 2,000/ha in the case of Giant Ipil Ipil for charcoal or
firewood, P 1,800/ha for Giant Ipil Ipil grown for leaf meal, or P 1,200/ha
for Abizzia falcataria grown for particle board or pulpwood. Such amounts are
equivalent to about 90% of the establishment costs. In order to preserve the



- 1 7 -
emphasis on smallholders, DBP would not commit more than $1.0 million (c. 25%)
of the loan funds for financing subloans of more than 25 ha, and no sub-
loans in excess of about 50 ha would be financed from proceeds of the loan
(para. 7.03).
4.06      Subloan Disursements and Repayments.  Subloans would generally be
disbursed in 4 stages over a one year period. Procedures to be followed are
discribed more fully in Annex 1, Table 4, together with recommended improve-
ments for streamlining the loan approval and release system. Repayment terms
would be flexible and would be based primarily on the ability of the applicant
to repay the loan from the proceeds of the investment.
B. Plantation Development
4.07      Since the project is intended not only to initiate pine plantation
development in Abra, but to establish a replicable technology for use
throughout the country, the project organization was formulated along the
lines followed by BFD in other "Special Project Areas," i.e. where BFD has
concentrated its reforestation efforts. The Regional Director (of Region I)
would assume full responsibility for the project and report to the Director
of BFD on its progress. Day to day supervision of the project, however,
would be under the direction of a Resident Project Manager who would live on
site and be authorized to order supplies and equipment as specified under
the annual budget, and in accordance with BFD and Bank requirements (see
para. 3.2). The Resident Project Manager would be assisted through some
three manyears of specialist services in plantation development and nursery
techniques. The Specialists would also be responsible for training BFD staff.
Selection of the forestry specialists would be subject to approval of the
Bank and the first to be hired would take up his duties by November 30, 1978
[para. 7.03(ii)]. Funds would be provided under the loan for an additional
five weeks of consultant services to assist the Project Manager in planning
the layout for the first year's planting, i.e. before the arrival of the
specialist. The short-term consultant would be hired by March 31, 1978
(para. 7.03). Draft terms of reference for the consultants are given in
Annex 4, Attachment 4.
4.08      To assist the Regional Director, and to involve headquarter staff
responsible for planning and implementing National programs, a Steering
Committee would be formed to annually approve the work program for the
project, and to meet not less than once every six months to review progress
of the project and submit an annual progress report to the Bank for review.
The Steering Committee would comprise the Director of BFD as Chairman, the
Regional Director as vice-Chairman and Division Heads of all concerned BFD
Headquarters Staff responsible for national program planning, as well as the
Resident Project Manager. Ex-officio members of the Steering Committee would
be representatives from the Forestry Research Institute (FORI) and Cellophil,
the company whose pulp mill is to be built adjacent to the project plantation
area, and the District Forester (para. 7.03).



- 18 -
C. Project Preparation Unit - DNR.
4.09      In keeping with the project concept of laying the framework for
widescale reforestation efforts in the Philippines, funds would be provided
to strengthen the project planning capability of the forestry sector. At
appraisal, forestry sector planning was handled by a number of groups, each
dealing with their particular areas of specialty (Annex 1). Coordination of
these activities was the responsibility of the Forestry Unit of the Planning
Service, a service group attached to the office of the Secretary of Natural
Resources. The project would strengthen the Planning Service through the
establishment and funding of a unit with overall responsibility for planning
and preparing projects relating to forestry sector development. The unit to
be known as the Natural Resources Project Preparation Unit would ultimately
be responsible for the planning and preparation of all projects and programs
of DNR. Under the project, funds would be provided for incremental salaries,
vehicles and equipment, funds for domestic travel, and consultant services.
At negotiations it was agreed that DNR would submit to the Bank by March 31,
1978, details of (a) staffing and equipping the preparation unit, and (b) the
proposed action plan for the first year of operation (Annex 1).
D.  Project Preparation Unit - DA.
4.10      Government has also requested funds under the project for strength-
ening the project identification and planning capabilities of the Department
of Agriculture. The absence of such a unit has been recognized for some time
as a major constraint to agricultural development in the Philippines. In
particular, lack of a thoroughly formulated develoment strategy with key
elements identified has limited the effectiveness of international and
lateral sources of assistance. Key objectives of the Unit (to be known as the
Agricultural Projects Development Unit), would be to: (a) formulate guide-
lines for project identification and preparation; (b) prepare priority agri-
cultural and agro-industrial projects suitable for international or grant
financing; and (c) presentation or assistance in presentation of packaged
agricultural projects to both international and local institutions for
financing. The project would provide for staffing and equipping the unit
along similar lines to that agreed for the unit established in DNR (para
4.09). It was also agreed at negotiations that by March 31, 1978 that DA
would submit an action plan and staffing arrangements for the unit (Annex
1) .
5. MARKETS, PRICES AND REVENUES
Markets
5.01      A.  Smallholder Treefarming.  Smallholder participants involved in
the growing of Albizzia falcataria for pulpwood, or Giant Ipil-Ipil for charcoal
and leaf meal, would enter into market agreements with the companies concerned.
The main conditions of the agreement would be: (a) a guaranteed market and
minimum price (for the wood, charcoal or dried leaves); (b) freedom on the
part of the farmer to sell to other buyers, after first informing the company



- 19 -
in the agreement; and (c)  in cases where farmers sell to the participating
company, provision for that company to withhold from the proceeds of farmers'
sales, the amounts due on the loan and to remit same to DBP.
5.02      In the case of smallholders involved in the growing of Giant Ipil
Ipil for firewood the main market outlets would be small tobacco growers,
bakers, etc., who could not possibly enter into such market agreements.
However, a marketing study for tree farms (Annex 2), clearly indicates that
tree farmers financed under this project would have no difficulty selling the
tree products at maturity. In fact the areas proposed for each of the DBP
subproject components (Annex 3, Table 1), with the possible exception of that
for DATICOR, are conservative, given the projected demand and supply situation
and expected yield parameters discussed in Annex 3. This has resulted from
understandable caution by participating companies, who have tended to avoid
risking overexposure in their proposed initial contract arrangements with
smallholders.
5.03      Therefore, since market prospects indicate much larger areas of
tree farm development would be needed to satisfy demand, and thereby signifi-
cantly reduce futher destruction of forest and bush land, the loan provides
for an additional 5,000 ha of tree farm development. This "unallocated"
portion, computed by assuming 50% would be planted for firewood and 50% for
leaf meal, would be disbursed by DBP either in the designated subproject areas
according to demand, or in other areas of the country subject to DBP's assess-
ment that markets, financial returns and agronomic criteria are satisfactory.
Thus the DBP subproject would have considerable flexibility, even providing
for the production of other products, such as poles for use as banana props
and rough building materials.
5.04 B. Plantation Development. Annual production of long fiber pulp at
full maturity of the project would amount to 8,000 tons, whereas long fiber
needs at that time are projected to be in excess of 200,000 tons, of which
about 70% would be imported. The project, however, would develop the tech-
nology to enable Government to continue new pine plantation development
in Abra at a rate of about 2,000 ha annually. But even at that rate, the
market analysis in Annex 2 indicates this, together with existing sources,
would be less than half the required rate of pine plantation development
needed to meet the country's long fiber pulp demands.
Prices and Revenues
5.05      Smallholder Treefarming.  Incomes derived as a result of tree farm
establishment would generally be incremental to existing sources of income,
since the latter would, in most cases, not be affected. Mainly it would be
the idle hill slopes and rocky areas which would be planted, the better areas
being retained for subsistence and at times cash cropping. Alternatively, in
many cases the lands are abandoned due to poor soil and the difficulties in
cultivating cogon grasslands. The landowners in such cases usually squat
or reside in less isolated and more agriculturally developed areas.
5.06      Farm model outlines are given below and discussed more fully in
Annex 3, Tables 2 to 8.



- 20 -
(i) For firewood and charcoal type tree farm development, inputs
would be similar, i.e., requiring about 124 man days/ha and
materials inputs of P 1,300/ha. Establishment of Giant Ipil
Ipil to a point where only minimal maintenance is required would
take about 12 months from planting. Trees would be ready for
harvesting in the fifth year and yields of 120 cu m/ha would be
expected in the Ilocos region, and 170 cu m/ha in the wetter Iligan
area where Giant Ipil Ipil would be grown for charcoal. Rather
than cut all their trees after four years growth, farmers would
probably harvest in such a manner as to maintain a continuing cash
income from their trees. For an average 5 ha tree farm operated with
up to 300 man-days/year of family labor, sustained net revenues of
P 5,000 to 5,300 (c. US$700) would be obtained after the fourth
year of harvesting. Regrowth from the stumps would again be
harvested after another 4 years growth and at least 3 to 4 such
coppice rotations would be feasible. The financial rate of return
would be about 27%. Farm income would be adequate to meet debt
servicing requirements, and still leave net cash income of about
P 968 (US$130) (Annex 3, Table 6).
(ii) For leaf meal, Giant Ipil Ipil would be grown very densely
(60-70,000/ha), and seed should therefore be sown directly in
furrows. Some 20 man-animal days and 80 man-days would be re-
quired for farm development. Material inputs, mainly fertilizer
and seeds, would amount to about E 955/ha. After one year's
establishment, leaves would be harvested 4 to 5 times annually,
producing a total of 10 ton (dry matter)/ha/yr. For an average
2-ha farm operated with up to 300 man-days/year of family labor,
sustained net returns of about P 4,500 (about US$600) would be
obtained. The financial rate of return would be above 50%.
Income over the first two years would fully pay off the loan
by the end of the second year, although repayment over two years
would allow for a substantially greater net farm cash income
during the early years (Annex 3, Table 7).
(iii) Pulpwood and particle board tree farms could be established
more cheaply than for Giant Ipil Ipil, mainly because of the
lower planting density (c. 750 seedlings of Albizzia vs 5-7,000
seedlings of Giant Ipil Ipil). Again tree farms could be estab-
lished in 12 months, the requirements being some 140 man-days of
labor and about P 320/ha of material inputs. Trees would be ready
for harvest in the eighth year, when a yield of about 240 cu m/ha
of wood could be expected. Some harvesting in the seventh year
could be expected. For an average 10-ha tree farm of Albizzia,
cutting about 1.25 ha per year from the seventh year would enable
a sustained net revenue of between P 5,800 and P 8,000 (US$780-
1,080) to be obtained. Regrowth from the stumps would again
enable trees to be harvested after further 8 years. The financial
rate of return would be about 23%. Income would be adequate to
meet debt servicing requirements and leave a net farm income of
about P 2,400 (US$375)(Annex 3, Table 8).



- 21 -
5.07 B. Plantation Development. Since development during project implementation
would be geared to establishing techniques and building up facilities for indus-
trial-scale plantation development, average establishment and maintenance costs
would initially be high, i.e., about US$1,000/ha. Subsequently, however, if
development proceeds at the project's target of 2,000 ha/annum, costs would be
reduced to about US$500/ha. Financial returns from the plantation development,
assuming the planting of a total of about 30,000 ha in the Abra region, would
be around 9%, at a stumpage price of about US$16/cu m (Annex 4, Table 10).
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
Sector Development
6.01      The project should be regarded as an important first step towards
the longer term objective of assisting wide-scale Government reforestation
efforts. Both the Government Forestry Service (BFD) and some 7,400 small-
holders would benefit directly from the project, but equally important, the
project is designed to stimulate interest in treefarming, countrywide by
demonstrating the financial benefits which can come from agro-forestry develop-
ment. Furthermore, the project would help government to develop techniques
for assisting shifting cultivators in forest lands to become more productively
employed and thereby assist the government's overall forest maintenance and
reforestation efforts.
Production
6.02      At full production the project would provide raw materials for pro-
duction of some 10,000 tons annually of short and 8,000 tons annually of long
fiber pulp, together valued at US$8 million, and representing import savings
of US$6.5 million. Particle board production from wood produced under the
project would amount to about 33,000 tons, valued at US$8 million annually.
Fuelwood and charcoal wood production, to the extent of some 400,000 cu m
annually, would reduce crude oil imports by about US$2 million, eliminate the
need for about US$1.5 million of coal imports, and facilitate the production
of an additional US$0.7 million worth of polyvinyl resins and related chemicals.
High protein leaf meal production, to the extent of about 55,000 tons yearly,
would provide export earnings of some US$5.5 million.
Employment and Income
6.03      Development under the project would take place in some of the most
remote areas of the country and involve many of the lower 40% income group in
the rural population. Some 8,000 man-years of on-farm employment would be
created annually at full production of the tree farm subproject, and another
1,100 man-years would be required to sustain Plantation Development at the
projected target rate of about 2,000 ha per year. For the Philippines the
income level to define the lower 40% in rural areas is about P 2,100 per
annum. For those employed on the plantation development, annual incomes
would be about P 3,000 per annum, while tree farm developers would be
expected to have net revenues before debt servicing of more than P 4,500
(see para. 5.06). This would be incremental to incomes derived without the
project, since generally only idle lands would be used for treefarming.



- 22 -
Also, only 300 man days of family labor has been costed. Underemployment
among prospective smallholder borrowers is such that some 300 mandays per
farm family could be devoted to treefarm maintenance, and still allow suffi-
cient time for them to continue with subsistence cropping or other employment
activities. Also considerable flexibility exists in how and when the treefarm
maintenance is done, so that labor would not be a constraint at times of
annual crop harvest, etc.
Financial and Economic Viability
6.04      Financial rates of return, based on project treefarm models, would
generally be in the 23-27% range, the exception being in the case of leaf meal
production, whereby farmers in the vicinity of mills able to handle the leaves
could have financial return of more than 50% (see Annex 3). The Smallholder
Treefarming Subproject, comprising the credit (DBP) and BPI nursery components,
would have an economic rate of return of about 65%. While the prices used are
believed unlikely to fall (see Annex 2), a 20% price decrease for leaf meal
and 10% price decrease for charcoal and firewood, would still give an economic
rate of return of about 60% (Annex 7). It would take a two-thirds decrease in
leaf meal prices (leaf meal being the more price-exposed of the commodities
financed) to reduce this component's economic rate of return to 30%.
6.05      The Plantation Development subproject would not only initiate
development of much needed, long-fiber pine plantations, but would also
assist BFD to develop the planning, budgetary and technical expertise to
expand, and improve the quality of their reforestation efforts, nationwide.
The economic return from the pine plantation investment would be about 11%
over a 30-year period.  This assumes BFD would continue replanting 2,000 ha
per year for at least 15 years so as to allow a sustained annual cut of about
2,000 ha (Annex 7)
Risks
6.06      Risks associated with the treefarming subproject are minimal, con-
sidering the guaranteed market agreements, the high financial rates of return
and the success of the on-going Pilot Project. Varying degrees of involvement
by participating companies must however be expected, but the project would be
flexible enough to enable DBP to reallocate funds for treefarming between
subproject areas, if the rate of treefarm development in particular areas
differs greatly from that envisioned at appraisal.
6.07      For the Plantation Development, the main risks would be that (a)
the trees would be grazed or burnt out, (b) difficulties could arise over
resettlement of people living or grazing their cattle in the subproject area
or (c) the tree species Pinus caribaea might not grow well in the area. With
regard to the fire and grazing risks, the project has been designed to take
every reasonable precaution, eg firebreaks, watch towers and some fencing.
Also with regard to shifting cultivators and pasture lease or permit problems,
these are only minor in the project area and, as discussed in para 3.12, the
project provides for an extension staff to assist inhabitants of the area.
Also government would be requested during negotiations to assure that no new
pasture leases or permits would be granted in the Abra forestry region. The
risk that the pine species Pinus caribaea would be unsuitable for widescale



- 23 -
planting in Abra, is only very slight, since it grows well under similar
conditions in Australia and Fiji. Although less than 2 years old, growth is
reported to be quite satisfactory. Nevertheless, to account for this small
risk the plantation development component of the project should be sufficiently
flexible to permit reallocation of funds for financing further field trials
with other strains and species, but at the same time allow for the techniques
of plantation development to be established through plantings of short fiber
species known to grow well in the area.
7. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The proposed project is stuitable for aBank Loan of US$8.0 million
at standard Bank lending rate of interest repayable over 20 years, including
5 year's grace period.
7.02      The condition of effectiveness would be execution of the Memoranda
of agreement between DBP and BPI and between DBP and the five companies
intending to participate.
7.03      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that, in regard to the
various executing agencies:
(i) DBP would (a) annually monitor, in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
a statistically selected sample of subloans from each subproject
area including the ongoing Pilot Project area and submit the
monitoring report to the Bank together with and overall progress
report; (b) provide adequate staff for efficient implementa-
tion of the project; and (c) not commit more than US$1.0 million
(c.25% of the loan funds) for financing subloans of more than 25 ha
and no subloans in excess of about 50 ha would be financed from
proceeds of the loan.
(ii) BFD would (a) recruit a forestry specialist upon approval of the
Bank and the first to be hired would take up their duties by
November 30, 1978; (b) establish a steering committee for the
subproject to approve and monitor works under the subproject and to
annually submit a progress report to the Bank for review; (c) hire
of a short term consultant to assist in planning the first years
planting layout by March 31, 1978; and (d) would not issue or renew
any pasture permits or leases in the project area or in the declared
priority Abra river basin.
(iii) BPI would expand its nursery capacity and production of Giant Ipil
Ipil seedings, principally in the Ilocos Region, at rates compatible
with the rates of treefarm development; and
(iv) PCARR would submit details of research project to the Bank for review
by May 31, 1978, and that progress reports on such studies would be
submitted annually for Bank review.



- 24 -
7.04      Tt -was further agreed that (a) Government would budget the necessary
cournterpart funds for the project and disburse upon request and in a manner
ensuring timely flow of funds to the project; (b) The project implementing
agenries would maintain separate accounts for the project and a copy of
the au-dlited raoorts would be sent to the Bank within three months of the
close of each fiscal year, until full disbursement of the loan; and (c)
Government would assist in providing suitable land outside the project area
and alternative employment opportunities for any household displaced by the
project.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Implementing Agencies and Participating Companies
Contents
Page No.
A. SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING                                               I
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)                         2
Background                                                    2
Management and Staffing                                       2
Bank Lending to DBP                                           3
Treefarming Credit Program                                    3
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI)                                    5
Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources Research (PCARR)  5
B. PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT                                               6
Bureau of Forest Development (BFD)                                6
C. PROJECT PREPARATION UNITS                                            6
Project Development Unit-DNR                                  6
Project Preparation Unit - DA                                 7
Table 1  Incremental DBP Administrative Costs
Table 2 Phasing of Incremental Staff Requirements and Costs
Table 3 Estimated Schedule of DBP Subloan Commitments
Table 4 Schedules of Subloan Disbursements and Repayment Terms
Table 5 Incremental BPI Nursery Facilities and Costs
Table 6 Plans and Budgetary Requirements of BFD (1977-1980)
Table 7 Phasing of Costs for the Project Development Unit of DNR
Table 8 Phasing of Costs for the Agriculture Project Preparation Unit
Attachment I Organization Chart of the Agricultural Project Office of DBP
Attachment 2 Organization Chart of the Bureau of Forest Development
Attachment 3 Organization of the PROFEM Advisory Committee and Program
Development Unit
Attachment 4 Outline Terms of Reference for a Wood Industry Development
Study
A. SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING
1.        This subproject will be implemented mainly by the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP), but with assistance from the Bureau of Plant Industry
(BPI) in regard to the distribution of seedlings and technical advice to
farmers in the Ilocos region. A third agency, PCARR (Philippine Council for



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Agricultural Resources Research), would be responsible for the research com-
ponents of the Project. The functions and organization of these agencies are
described below.
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) /1
2.        Background.  DBP was established in 1958 (Republic Act No. 85) as
an autonomous government-owned development bank for supplying credit to
industry and agriculture. It succeeded the Rehabilitation Finance Corpora-
tion, created in 1947 primarily for post-war reconstruction. DBP is the
single largest institutional source of long-term funds in the Philippines.
Since its inception it has approved financial assistance totalling nearly
$3 billion. The volume and diversity of its operations give it a prominent
and unique role as the Government's arm for financing economic development.
3.        Under its Charter, DBP is empowered to engage in a wide range of
financial activities, including:
(i) granting loans for the establishment or development of any
agricultural or industrial enterprise, including public
utilities, mining, livestock, fisheries, and home financing;
(ii) purchasing equity investments in any agricultural or industrial
enterprise;
(iii) guaranteeing loans and other obligations incurred for the
development of agriculture or industry; and
(iv) granting loans to provincial and municipal governments for
self-liquidating or income-producing projects;
The bulk of its activity, however, has been in loans and guarantees for
industry and agriculture. About 25% of the long-term loan portfolio is in
agriculture. In 1964, it was also given the responsibility of assisting
in the establishment of smaller private development banks throughout the
Philippines.
4.        Management and Staffing.  Overall management of DBP is entrusted
to a 9-man Board of Governors consisting of the Chairman (who is chief
executive officer), 4 full-time Supervising Governors
with responsibility for different departments of DBP, and 4 part-time
Governors (presently the former Executive Secretary to the President, the
Secretary of Industry, a private lawyer and a Presidential Assistant for
Economic and Development affairs. One of the Supervising Governors is
Vice-Chairman of the Board. The present Chairman, Placido Mapa Jr. was
appointed in 1976.
/1 For a detailed account of DBP's operations and financial position, consult
the recent IBRD Review of DBP; Report No. AEP-lD, February 1, 1977.



ANNEX I
Page 3
5.        DBP's present organization dates from September 1973.  The operating
core consists of three broad departmental groupings (Industry, Agriculture and
Community Development) each under the direction of a Supervising Governor. A
fourth grouping of central support departments is under the direct control of
the Chairman. In addition, two other offices, Legal and Audit, are linked
loosely to the organization, although these offices are under the functional
jurisdiction of respective independent bodies i.e., the Department of Justice,
and the Commission on Audit (COA). In the past two years DBP has concentrated
its efforts on consolidation. As a result, noticeable improvements in the
functioning of individual departments and in inter-departmental coordination
have taken place. The organization of the Agricultural Project Department,
which would handle the Treefarming subproject, is shown in Attachment 1.
6.        DBP has a total staff of about 3,000, 55% of whom are located in
the 35 branches and 24 agencies. The staff must have civil service eligi-
bility and is of generally good calibre. Salaries are competitive with other
Government financial institutions, and above those of the general civil
service structure.
7.        Bank Lending to DBP.  The Bank has so far approved nine loans
totalling $223.9 million, all since 1971, for on-lending through DBP:
1. Rice Processing and Storage Project, 720-PH, $14.3 million;
2. Fisheries Credit Project, 891-PH, $11.6 million;
3. (First) Livestock Development Project, 823-PH, $7.5 million;
4. Second Livestock Development, 1225-PH, $20.0 million;
5. (First) Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farmers Project,
998-PH, $50.0 million;
6. Second Industrial Investment Project, 1190-PH, $75.0 million;
7. Shipping Project, 1048-PH, $20.0 million;
8. Small and Medium Industries Development Project 1120-PH,
$15.0 million and;
9. Second Grain Processing Project, 1269-PH, $115 million. A Second
Shipping has also been appraised and the report is in preparation.
8.        The Treefarming Credit Program of DBP would be considerably expanded
under the proposed project, from the Pilot (US $2 million) Bank assisted pro-
ject under loan 998-PH. Some 6 Branch offices would handle tree farm loan
applications, and this would require that not only existing vacancies be be
filled at these branches, but that DBP hires an additional 22 technical
staff over a 4 year period. Included with the additional technical staff
would be a forestry specialist who would complement the functions of the
one other forestry specialist on staff at headquarters, in training technical
staff in technical aspects relating to tree farm development and in conduc-
ting at least six monthly field inspections and supervision of technical
staff serving the Project. The incremental administrative costs due to the
project, together with the estimated increase in field visits that would
have to be made are shown in Table 1 and 2. Field staff mobility would be
assisted under the project through the purchase of 22 small motorcycles for
the additional technical staff, one jeep for of the areas covered by the
project, and supplement any office equipment, mostly typewriters and calculators.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        The above agreements for administering the project are necessary
in view of the present understaffing of many Branch offices, not only with
regard to technical staff, but also in secretarial support. Motorcycles,
rather than 4 wheel vehicles would be provided under the project because of
their greater flexibility in reaching smallholders away from feeder roads.
Their use, although still a fairly new experience for DBP is in line with
similar trends towards use of motorcycles in place of 4-wheel vehicles by
other government agencies, as part of their economy drive. Under the Pilot
Project, the only problem of notable importance has been that of inadequate
shifting and mobility of DBP staff, resulting in back logs of loan applica-
tions and loan releases. These problems therefore are provided for under the
proposed project, but in addition, a number of measures aimed at simplifying
the loan processing, release and monitoring systems would be introduced.
10.       Firstly, the recently revised procedures found to expedite the
loan approval process for the Pilot Project would be adopted. Participating
companies, where acceptable to DBP, would work with groups of neighboring
farmers in assisting them to fill out subloan applications. These would then
be submitted in bunches together with the participating companies' certifica-
tion that the respective properties are suitable for tree farming. Upon
approval of the application at the Branch level, legal documents would be
prepared and again sent in bunches to the participating company for execution
of the marketing agreement. The deeds would then be registered with the
Provincial Registry of Deeds and sent to the Branch office for appropriate
release. This procedure greatly improves efficiency and reduces the workload
on DBP staff. Alternatively in areas not served by technicians of companies
such as in Ilocos, DBP should encourage and assist interested farmers in
the more isolated areas to apply in groups, such that the aggregate area in
each such locality is greater than 10 ha. This procedure is already being
followed by DBP for some of its other special financing programs and tempo-
rary field offices are sometimes established by the Branch Manager to further
expedite the processing of loans.
11.       The second measure would implement a system whereby field techni-
cians could, upon certifying that formerly agreed works had been satisfactorily
completed, issue coupons which farmers could exchange for material inputs such
as seedlings and fertilizers with authorized distributors, i.e. BPI nurseries
and private dealers. Such coupons would have a maximum redeemable value of
P 2,000 and at the farmers' request be sent by the DBP Branch Office either
by mail to the farmers directly or for deposit in accounts opened by farmers
with the more widely distributed branches of PNB, Rural Banks, Savings and
Loan Associations, etc. This would eliminate the need for small scale farmers
to travel long distances to DBP Branch Offices to collect releases, expedite
the process of field certification and subloan release, encourage farmers in
the use of savings deposits, and minimize the risk of purchasing inferior seed
or seedlings. An estimated schedule of subloan commitments by DBP over the
project period is shown in Tables 3 and 4 show the schedule for individual
subloan disbursement and repayment.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
12.       Subloans would be secured in accordance with normal DBP procedures by:
(i) First mortgage on titled and/or untitled real estate properties,
alienable and disposal aland covered by free patent/homestead
application or long term lease of not less than 25 years and
privately-owned land covered by long-term lease of not less than 20
years;
(ii) a chattel mortgage on the wood-charcoal or leaf meal that will be
produced; and
(iii) an assignment, where applicable, in favor of DBP of a marketing agree-
ment contracted between the borrower and the participating company.
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI)
13.       In the Ilocos region of Northern Luzon where smallholders would be
encouraged to grow Giant Ipil Ipil for firewood, the seedlings source would
initially be the various BPI nurseries in that region. At a later stage in
the project, it is expected that small private nurseries would develop, as
has been the experience under the ongoing Pilot Project.
14.       BPI is a line agency of the Department of Agriculture, responsible
mainly for plant research, crop protection, seed certification and multiplica-
tion. Within the realm of the latter function BPI nurseries produce breeder
and foundation seed as well as fruit trees, Giant Ipil Ipil etc. for distribu-
tion to farmers, or other seed or seedling producers. The Bureau is headed by
a Director and field operations are divided among some 12 Regional Directors.
The Director of Region 1 would primarily be responsible for distribution of
seedlings under the Project.
15.       A memorandum of agreement would be signed between DBP and BPI,
guaranteeing that BPI would provide the required amounts of Giant Ipil Ipil
seedlings, at cost, to DBP treefarm borrowers, and that BPI would provide
supporting technical services, as and when needed.  This is similar to the
type of agreement between DBP and BPI executed for the Bank assisted Second
Livestock Project (Loan 1225-PH). DBP would cooperate closely with BPI by
informing the Regional Director well in advance of forthcoming seedling
requirements, based on loan applications received and releases due. Tree
farmers would exchange coupons received from DBP, for seedlings from BPI.
BPI in turn would be reimbursed by DBP against the coupon, for the value of
seedlings supplied.
16.       BPI would be provided with funds for four-wheel drive pick-ups and
expanded nursery capacity under the project. The vehicles would be used in
delivering materials for the nursery and in assisting in the delivery of
seedling to various collection points convenient to tree farmers. Details of
nursery and transport facilities to be funded under the project are shown in
Table 5.
Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources Research (PCARR)
17.       Research components to be funded under the project (see Annex 5),
would be coordinated by PCARR. PCARR was formed in November 1972 for the



ANNEX 1
Page 6
purpose of channeling all research activities, by public and private agencies,
in fields of agriculture, fisheries, forestry and natural resources into the
main stream of development. As the country's research coordinating agency,
the governing council of PCARR is responsible for reviewing all research
proposals and for channeling funds to various agencies for approved projects.
PCARR also is the main government agency responsible for coordinating and
publishing research findings which are of direct relevance for increasing the
country's agricultural and other natural resources development. It also
maintains a directory of research designed to minimize duplication of research
activities of different groups.
18.       PCARR maintains close contact with international and other national
research centers, particularly in the Asian region, and cooperates with such
organizations in international programs, seminars etc. In September 1976, for
example PCARR and the USA, National Academy of Science jointly sponsored an
International Consultation on Ipil Ipil Research at Los Banos, Philippines.
The outcome of that meeting was of direct relevance to the proposed smallholder
tree farming subproject.
B. PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT
19.       The Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) would be solely responsible
for implementing the plantation Development subproject. Details of the sub-
project organization are contained in Annex 4. BFD is a line agency of the
Department of Natural Resources, and has as its main responsibilities,
the development and maintenance of forest resources and regulation of their
utilization. BFD's mandate is extensive and is defined in the Revised
Forestry Code of 1976. This has been promulgated as Presidential Decree
No. 705.
20.       BFD's Central office in Manila is organized into 10 functional
divisions and a training centers, while the field organization consists of 13
regional offices and 82 forest districts. An organization chart for the BFD
is included as Attachment 2. In 1976 budget requirements of BFD were around
P 200 million (US$27 million) and by 1980 the budgetry requirements are
projected to be about P 587 million (US$80 million) (see Table 6). In the
past, BFD's forest maintenance and reforestation efforts have been very
modest. Contributing factors have been (i) budgetary constraints, (ii)
illegal logging often by influential people (iii) legal and illegal occupation
of forest lands by pasture lessee's, permit holders and shifting cultivators
(Kaingin), (iv) very poor follow-up maintenance, and fire control in logged
over or reforested areas and (5) inadequate planning and budgetary allocations
for BFD. Much of the reforestation effort has been expended on achieving
ground cover with insufficient attention being given to the longer term
commercial prospects. Also much of the areas reforested have either been
grazed or burnt out.
C. PROJECT PLANNING AND PREPARATION
21.       Project Preparation Unit - DNR.  In keeping with the project con-
cept of laying the framework for widescale reforestation efforts in the
Philippines, funds would be provided to strengthen the project planning
capability of the forestry sector. At appraisal, forestry sector planning



ANNEX 1
Page 7
was handled by a number of groups, each dealing with their particular areas
of specialty. Such groups include the Presidential Committee for Wood Indus-
tries Development (PCWID), the Human Settlement Commission (with regard to
Kaingineros), the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA), The Planning
Service of DNR, and the PROFEM Secretariat.  In addition, each of BFD's
functional divisions (see Attachment 2) prepare their own plans and programs
and are coordinated by the Plans and Evaluation Division.  Coordination of all
these various activities was the responsibility of the Forestry Unit,
a unit of the Planning Service attached to the office of the Secretary of
Natural Resources. The project would strengthen the Planning Service through
the establishment and funding of a unit with overall responsibility for
planning and preparing projects relating to the Forestory Sector. The unit,
to be known as the Natural Resources Project Preparation Unit would ultimately
be esponsible for the Planning and preparation of all projects and programs
of DNR. Funds would be provided for facilities (equipment and transport),
consultant services and incremental staff salaries (Table 7), and through
organizational changes designed to better coordinate the activities of the
other more specialized planning units (Attachment 3). Funds would also be
provided to the Preparation Unit for the express purpose of conducting, with
the help of consultants, a Wood Industries Development study (see Attachment
4). Plans and projects prepared by the Preparation Unit would be subject to
periodic review by the Bank. Such progress would be detailed in a report to
be submitted to the Bank annually.
22.       Project Preparation Unit - DA.  Government has requested funds
under the project for strengthening the planning capabilities of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Key objectives would the following:
(a) formulation of an internationally and locally acceptable framework
and guideines approved by the Secretary of Agriculture for project
development and packaging of agricultural projects; (1) actual
preparation and packaging of priority agricultural projects for
international application or granty financing; and (3) actual
presentation and/or assistance in the presentation of packaged
agricultural projects to both international and local institutions,
organizations and agencies of government for financing considera-
tions.
23.       The Unit would report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture.  It
would be comprised of an inter-disciplinary team with the necessary expertise
to accomplish the objectives of the unit. The unit would be staffed with 9
senior planning staff, some 22 research assistants and subsector specialists,
and a support staff of about 14. While it is intended that the funds provided
under the loan enable sufficient staff, office facilities, vehicles and equip-
ment to set up and operate efficiently, it is the intention that the operations
of such a unit become part of annual budget appropriations of the Department
of Agriculture (Table 8). At negotiations, it was agreed that close liaison
would be maintained between the Bank and the Department of Agriculture in the
setting up of the Unit and that progress reports would be submitted annually
for Board review.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
24.       The Unit would report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture.  It
would be comprised of an inter-disciplinary team with the necessary expertise
to accomplish the objectives of the unit. The unit would be staffed with 9
senior planning staff, some 22 research assistants and subsector specialists,
and a support staff of about 14. While it is intended that the funds provided
under the loan enable sufficient staff, office facilities, vehicles and equip-
ment to set up and operate efficiently, it is the intention that the operations
of such a unit become part of annual budget appropriations of the Department
of Agriculture. At negotiations, it was agreed that close liaison would be
maintained between the Bank and the Department of Agriculture in the setting
up of the Unit and that progress reports would be submitted annually for Board
review.



ANNEX I
Table I
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Phasing of Incremental Staff Requirements and Costs
(P million)
Year
1                2                 3                 4
Number of farms
Giant Ipil-Ipil
(a) for firewood               120               380               800              800
(b) for charcoal               140               200               200              200
(c) for leafmeal               360               865             1,175            1,500
Albizzia
(d) for pulpwood                40                60                70                70
(e) for particle board          50                90               130               130
Total                710            1,595             2,375             2.700
Number of appraisal
visits p.a. /a             1,420             3,190             4,750            5,400
Number of inspection
visits per farm p.a. /b  2,130               4,785             7,125            8,100
Number of visits per day:
(A)  Appraisal:    2 on 250 days p.a. = 500 visits p.a. per man.
minus:   20% safety margin  - 400 visits p.a. per man.
I.   Inspection:  3 on 250 days p.a.   750 visits p.a. per man.
minus:   20% safety margin  - 600 visits p.a. per man.
Number of visits per
subproj ect:
(a) A                      240               760            1,600             1,600
I                      360            1,140             2,400            2,400
(b) A                      280               400              400               400
I                      420              600               600               600
(c) A                      720             1,730            2,350             3,000
I                    1,080            2,595             3,525             4,500
(d) A                       80               120              140               140
I                      120               180              210               210
(e) A                      100               180              260               260
I                      150               270              390               390
DBP staff required
Technical (a) A                 1                2                 4                 4
I               1                 2                4                 4
(b) A                1                1                 1                 1
I               1                 1                 1                1
(c) A               2                 4                 6                8
I
(d) A               1                 1                 1                1
I               I                 1                 1                1
(e)A                1                 1                 1                 1
I               1                 1                 1                1
Total                      10                14                20               22
Secretarial                     5                 7               10                11
/a Two visits per farm.
/b Three visits per farm (second, third and fourth releases).



ANNEX 1
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Incremental DBP Administrative Costs
(P'OOO)
Year                          Total
1            2            3            4        Cost
Technicians /a                 300          420          600          660       1,980
Secretaries                     72          100          144          158         474
Motorcycles lb                  35           14           21             7         77
Jeeps /c                       190            -            -            -         190
O&M vehicles                {    7           10           14           15          46
{   28           28           28           28         112
Office equipment                 4            2            2            1           9
Total                     636          574          809          869      2,888
/a  At P 30,000 p.a. per technician and P 14,000 per secretary (direct and
indirect costs).
/b  At P 3,500 each, one per technician.
/c  One per project area at P 38,000.



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of DBP Subloan Commitments
Project year I           Project year 2            Project Year 3            Project year 4               Total
Tree species             Ha  Farms    Loans    Ha   Farms        Loans    Ha   Farms    Loans    Ha   Farms    Loans    Ha    Farms    Loans
(P million)               (P million)              (P million)               (P million)                (P million)
Giant Ipil-Ipil
for firewood la      600   120       1.2    1,900   380         3.8   4,000    800         8.0   4,000    800       8.0  10,500  2,100        21.0
Giant Ipil-Ipil
for charcoal         700   140       1.4    1,000   200         2.0   1,000    200         2.0   1,000    200       2.0   3,700    740         7.4
Giant Ipil-Ipil
for leafmeal /a      700   350       1.3    1,800   900         3.2   2,500  1,250         4.5   3,000  1,500       5.4   8,000  4,000        14.4
Albizzia falcataria
for pulpwood         400    40       0.5      600    60         0.7      700      70       0.8      700     70      0.8   2,400    240        .2.9
Albizzia falcataria
for particle board  500    50       0.6       900    90         1.1   1,300    130         1.6   1,300    130       1.6   4,000    400         4.8
Total                            5.0                        10.8                       16.9                     17.8  28,600  7,400        50.5
/a  Assuming that the 5,000 ha unallocated will be planted one half to Ipil-Ipil for leafmeal and one half for firewood.
crZ
Mx



ANNEX 1
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Subloan Disbursements and Repayment Terms
------------- Loan Amount (P/ha) -------------
Giant Ipil-Ipil          Albizzia and Others
Release            Firewood                      Particle board
Timing          & purpose          & charcoal  Leaf meal            & pulpwood
0            First Release
Land clearing          200         400                  250
6 weeks      Second Release
Planting/seedling   1,250        1,100                  400
Fertilizing
Weeding
3 months     Third Release
Weeding                400         300 /a                300
Fourth Release
6 months       Weeding                 150          -                   250
Total Loan Amount               2,000       1,800                1,200
Grace period                   4 years      1 year              7 years
Subsequent
repayment period               4 years     1 year               7 years
/a Third Release for leaf meal production comes at 12 months.



ANNEX 1
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Incremental BPI Nursery Facilities and Costs /a
--------------- Year       ---------
1     2     3      4     5    Total
('000 Pesos)
Vehicles
4 locally built 4-wheel drive
large-size jeeps with trailer
@ P 60,000                              240                              240
Vehicles running costs                     60   60    60    60             240
Nurseries (in 4 locations)
Sheds and shades                         80                               80
Pumps and piping                         24                               24
Tools, equipment, basic supplies         10                               10
Seed refrigerators                       16                               16
Levelling, fencing; pot and seedbed
construction                           20                               20
Fertilizer, insecticides, chemicals,
pump operation, tools, misc.           30   30    30    30             120
Total                                     480   90    90    90             750
(US$101,000)
/a Excluding normal operation costs for personnel, labor, seeds, polypots,
soil transport, etc., which will be recovered by Government from selling
seedlings to farmers.



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Plans and Budgetary Requirements of BFD (1977-1980)
Unit           1977                   1978                  1979                  1980
of                Budget                 Budget                Budget                Budget
PROGRAMS/PROJECTS/ACTIVITIES                      Meas.    Goal       (Peso)      Goal       (Peso)      Goal      (Peso)      Goal      (Peso)
I.    Development & Conservation of
Forest Resources                                            275,242               313,294                343,048               355,290
1.  Forest Resources Management                               173,067               212,119                239,565
(a)  Land Classification                Ha.    1,500       67,500      2,000   90,000    2,000          90,000    1,747    253,800
(b)  Forest Protection                  Ha.   16,650       18,374    15,900   26,400   14,900           16,400   13,900       78,480
(c)  Watershed Rehab. & Ero. Con.    Ha.           10       3,210          12    3,900         14        4,550        16      26,400
(d)  Timber Management                  Ha.       100       5,300         110    5,830        121        6,715       133       5,280
(e)  Timber Stand Improvement           Ha.       120      21,600        150   27,000         225       44,550       350       7,249
(f)  Range Mangaement                   Ha.    1,060        4,863      1,060    4,885         960          500       960      63,000
(g)  Kaingin Management               Family       10      27,000          12   33,000         15       41,000        17         500
(h)  Parks & Wildlife Management        Ha.    2,368        9,526      2,368    8,316    2,368           7,938    2,368       47,000
(i)  Economic Research                  No.      .033       1,650       .040    2,000        .040        2,000      .040       6,411
(j)  National Forest Inventory          Ha.    3,411       14,044      2,597   10,788    3,872          15,512    4,272        2,000
2.  Gen. Adm. & Support Services                              102,175               101,175                103,483               101,483
II.   Reforestation & Afforestation                Ha.        50    115,950           60  154,920         70      187,740        80    222,560
TOTAL I-II                                               391,192              468,214                 530.788               577,851
III.  Capital Outlay                                                  15,300               13,300                  13,300                 9,100
1.  Building Construction                   No.       .030       3,100       .015   10,200       .015       10,200      .015       6,000
2.  Road Construction                        Km.      .020      12,200       .030    3,100       .030        9,100       .030       3,100
GRAND TOTAL                                              406.492              481,514                 544,088               586,951
Note:  All figures are in thousands                                                                                                                         | |X
a,
Source:  BFD Programs and Plans for 1976-2000.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Projects Cash flow for the Natural Resources
Projects Preparation Unit
Items                     1     2      3     4      5       Total
1.  Vehicles                             140     -      -     -      -         140
2.  Office equipment and furnitures    98    18    10         -      -         126
3.  operation and maintenance
(travel, office rental,
supplies, materials, printing,
sundries, etc.)                       90   100   110   110   110          520
4.  Staff salaries                       403   412   580   580   580         2,555
5.  Consultant fees                       81   108   108   108   108           513
812   638   808   798   798        3,854
6.  Contingencies                         35    35    40    40    40           190
Total           747   673   848   838   838    P 4,044
or    $534,000
Loan component                                   $350,000
Local component (about 34% of total cost)    $184,000
or P 1,419,000



ANNEX 1
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Phasing of Costs for the Agricultural Project Preparation Unit
Year
1      2       3      4       5       Total
('000 Pesos)
Vehicles (2 x 4 wheel drive)   60        60      -       -       -        120
Office equipment                 65      40     15      10       -        130
Operation and maintenance        20      35     35      35      35        160
Staff salaries and
consultant fees as
required                      220    435    655    875    875         3,060
Total                  365    570    705    920    910          3,470
US$470,000



ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Agricultural Projects Office of DBP
Executive Director
|Plans & Programs
| APO I                                                                                                     APO 11 
Ant Manager     Asts aaer At Manager                                                               Asut ManaerAn                         Manager AtMn~
Co als                      Grp             MO SaG                                                      P&L Group                                         Svs Grp
Div Chief             Div Chief                                                               Oi h.                   iv ChiefDiChe
Grain Psg             Grain Pdn                                                               Poultry               Piggery                Cxtte
Heed Proj             Head Proj                                      HHed Pnoj               Hed Proj
Superv                Superv                                          Super.                 SupNv.
Proj Appr            Proj Supvsn                                      Proj Appr             Proj Supvsn
Section              Section                                          Section               Section
h   Typical subdivision of every technical Division.                                                                                                World Bank   17757



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLPER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Orgatntion Of the  ur"au of Forrat Devalopmtnt
|  DIRECTOR
ASST.OlCO 
FMwne UW  Fkw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~riec  ean
Se-ity    Se                          E kti.on. Sc  lon." e  Dec                                                          D i Sec                                  Di.f h Stiemno                                o nDir
A_0dPe e.                                                                                                                 .L.e
Piogieme SWI  Staff ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ -1t S                               p9,-
i   8eEor$t*bon tzt   l     l  ~Tirtr                                      Fornm lif ionm                       Fornr ProKto 4r   |                      P.,k., R., np.dt
Id 
|u    Cl                                       S.l-ir  
I .oo.en  ........1o 
rt
1 a92 C  ;t                                                                                              ' W
|  Ollen   |                                                                       Wodd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 tenk - 17769



ANNEX 1
Attachment 3
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Organization of the PROFEM Advisory Committee and
Program Development Unit
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY             -EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Department of Natural Resources        Program for Forest Ecosystem
Management
PROFEM Advisory Committee
Reps. DNR, BFD, NEDA, FORI and PCWID
Planning Service
(Mining. Fisheries, Forestry)
Forestry Unit
Natural Resources Projects
Preparation Unit
Bureau of
Bureau of                Bureau of               Bureau of               Fisheries
Forest Devel.            Lands                   Mines                 and Aquatic
Research
World Bank - 17760



ANNEX 1
Attachment 3
Page 2
Under Special Order No. 104, Series of 1977, the PROFEM Advisory
Committee has the following functions:
"(a)  To conduct periodic monitoring, review and evaluation of
all existing policies related to PROFEM operations.
(b)  To formulate and recommend new policies to the PROFEM Executive
Officer based on the Committe's findings and evaluation.
(c)  To establish directions and guidelines for operationalizing
new policies, programs and projects. In particular, these
shall cover the following areas:
(i)    Program/Project Development
(ii)    Program/Project Management
(iii)    Information Management
(iv)    Financial Management
(d) To provide directions and assistance to the PROFEM Secretariat
in the conduct of its management and control functions for PROFEM
operations. These activities shall include:
(i)    Identification of Needs and Support Requirements
(ii)    Operations Planning
(iii)    Pinpointing of Problem Areas
(iv)    Formulation of Solutions
(v)    Establishment of Evaluation Criteria and
Performance Standards
(vi)    Communication and Reporting to PROFEM Management
(e) To perform such duties as may be assigned by the PROFEM Executive
Officer.
A Program Development Unit is also created to act as Secretariat to
the Advisory Committee which shall be composed of representatives of the
agencies mentioned above and shall form part of the PROFEM National Secretariat.
These representatives, however, shall be duly appointed by the members of the
PROFEM Advisory Committee.
The functions of this unit shall be primarily geared towards
the translation of policies relevant to PROFEM planning, management and
operations .."



PHILJPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed Organization for the Presidential Council
for Forest Ecosystem Management
PCFEM       Chairman: Pres. f. E. Menos
Memer Do":   , DA, DLGCD, DPWTC DPH,                       ProfemD
DEC, DYS'. DPI, CSC, B3dget                      Sereurilt
C omm MSD8, HSC, Others
Concemed.                                       Program Dir.
Asnt. Program DMr.
Secretary (tchie clark)
|Sanem's Dev  ,L q    Manals Drrv   |                                          |    Socrta-r,t/Clerica" Po
Pr-le-t ~ ~    ~     ro a
PrTou . Evmp ion           Soo fser                                   PlnntpoI
m n CP0ori.             Propm  Ot
.    '.
MserrOo                           aton 
Rstcords & 7rtoPrty
Rsglimml Chtmmr  S Elected
RCFM   Ba, Regond RetPretetatiw s
FE FE7 of the NaCtioral Council
Member
Secretariat          tFnom SFD Regional Office)
Rgtionai Copordirar
.~~~~~~~2 a
EX.Sting ~    ~        Nu,,hera Oft.tio |  rnt anc
Prefern
Provt Coodinsto, (DF)
Existing MunirPa1 D v. CPuncil
|Munwicpd Coordinrutor (MDOODist. SuPl 
m meh tn1
S ara.gay P,afenm
jVoluntw  Leader|
|   Oertlns |         Ulllaton      l       &MaLt



ANNEX 1
Attachment 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a Wood
Industry Development Study
1.        Background.  The wood-based industries sector in the Philippines is
of great importance for the country's economy. The number of pulp and/or paper
mills in operation exceeds 20, that of permanent sawmills 350, and the number
of wood-based panel plants (veneer, plywood, blockboard, particle board, fiber
board), 60. Most of these establishments are historically grown mills which
were built spontaneously outside the concept of a national forest industries
development plan. While the necessity of BOI approval constitutes a check on
the techno-economic viability of a new mill on an individual basis as well as
on a more general basis from the national economy point-of-view, there is no
clearly formulated, detailed and nationwide investment policy on this sector.
2.        The continuous cutting or clearing of the forests and the eventual
transferring to agriculture of forest land have resulted in a situation which
finds a large number of wood-based industry enterprises short of raw material,
or the latter can be obtained only at high costs. High operating costs and
low utilization of capacity installed, on the other hand, have often led to
the omission of investments which would be necessary to guarantee a mill's
competitiveness, e.g., for modernizations, better use of raw materials, product
diversification, quality control, and further processing for higher value added,
and expansion where justified.
3.        The situation is aggravated by two factors:  first, the suscepti-
bility of the largely export-oriented sawnwood and panel industry to fluctua-
tions in the international market; secondly, Government's decision to terminate
the export of logs which has always been a major source of income for the
majority of the larger wood-processing companies.
4.        The picture as a whole is, therefore, characterized by the following
features:
(a) the structure of the industry is scattered, heterogeneous,
and as a whole, far from the optimum;
(b) many individual mills themselves operate under conditions
far from the optimum;
(c) there are no guidelines about which mills would deserve
rehabilitation, which ones should either be phased out,
and what type and size of mills should be considered for
new investments;



ANNEX 1
Attachment 4
Page 2
(d) despite the availability of a number of incentives, the
general investment climate remains insecure as there is no
declared policy in regard to the siting of new capacities;
(e) investment decisions are also impeded by the absence of
concrete long-term plans and assurances of industrial wood
supply, including wood from plantations, from within a parti-
cular forest district or region;
(f) at the time of economic booms, government agencies (BOI, BFD)
invariably receive a glut of uncoordinated, often overlapping
and competing investment applications from private companies,
which tends to lead to an uneven investment development or
frequently is simply a waste of efforts; and
(g) lack of a well-formulated development strategy with key
elements identified has limited the effectiveness of inter-
national and bilateral sources of assistance.
5.        Justification and Objective.  Against this background, it is imperative
that a set of criteria be developed in the near future with which to guide the
authorities and the private companies in their investment plans and decisions.
For this goal, a comprehensive Forest Industries Development Study is needed.
6.        The investigation would comprise both the pulp and paper industry
and the mechanical forest industries. It would link the industrial development
to the long-term availability of raw material resources. It would further tie
in its investment proposals with national, regional and provincial planning goals,
taking into consideration such factors as employment, environment, other indus-
tries and transport flow. The study would explore the domestic and export market
prospects and would guide investments in the direction of maximum foreign currency
earnings and/or import substitutions. As a whole, the study would work out a
national investment strategy for this sector of the industry in a way which
derives the maximum benefits to the national economy on a sustained basis.
7.        Scope.  A two-phase study is proposed.  Phase I would assemble
and evaluate the data basis on all physical factors of relevance and compile
existing development plans and goals at all levels in a series of interim
reports. This information would then be used by the conductors of the study
to propose development alternatives and to reformulate, if necessary, the
study plan for Phase II. At that stage, a detailed review of the consultant's
proposals would be held, involving all of the concerned government agencies,
together with representatives of any international or regional organizations
who may be considered participating in, or providing finance for, the study.
8.        Phase II would entail an optimization of che production and invest-
ment alternatives. Development targets would be derived from the optimum
program. On the basis of the analysis, a short-term forest industries develop-
ment plan covering the period 1980-85 would be worked out. A restricted number
of main projects up to 1985 would be analyzed in more detail by conducting a



ANNEX 1
Attachment 4
Page 3
series of mill investigations at the pre-feasibility level. This could include
both new mills as well as the rehabilitation of existing mills. A long-term
forest industries development would be determined for the period 1985-2000,
with targets expressed at five-year intervals. Key projects up to 1990 would
be prepared at the level of conceptual engineering.
9.        To provide a link with forest resources management, the study would
coordinate natural forest management and plantation development and potential,
including smallholder treefarms, with the forest industries development targets
by zones. The study would also include an analysis, in broader terms, of the
requirements for infrastructure needed to support the development of the
forestry and forest industries sector.
10.       Performance of the Study.  The study would be committed by the
Project Development Unit in DNR. This unit, which would be strengthened by
the project, would, within one year of project effectiveness, define in greater
detail the needs and objectives of this study and, together with the Bank,
work out detailed terms of reference.
11.       While the unit is likely to actively particpate in the study, the
investigation itself, which is highly specialized, would need to be carried
out by an experienced forest industries consulting firm which would be inter-
nationally recruited and whose selection would require Bank approval.
12.       Costs and Funding.  A study of this type would require about 100
man-months of expert work input and is estimated to cost US$0.6-0.8 million,
including travel and other expenses. An amount of US$0.7 million would be
provided for this purpose by the project.
13.       Timing.  The study would start in the second project year and would
require approximately one year. It should be completed in the first half of 1980.
14.       Follow-up.  Based on the investment criteria and the mill cases, ema-
nating out of the study, it should then be possible to commit and evaluate
individual, project-directed, full feasibility studies in the forest industries
sector efficiently and quickly. These studies would become much cheaper than
under present circumstances because they would deal only with technical solu-
tions in a well-defined socio-economic framework and investment scenario.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
Contents
Page No.
A.  TREEFARM PRODUCTS                                           1
Fuelwood for Tobacco Leaf Curing                            1
Leaf Meal for Livestock Feeds                               3
Charcoal for Manufacturing PVC Resins                      3
Wood for Particle Board                                    5
B.  PULPWOOD FOR THE PULP AND PAPER INDUSTRY                    6
Production and Consumption Trends                          6
Pulpwood Equivalents and Demand                            8
Short-fiber Pulpwood                                       9
Long-fiber Pulpwood                                        10
A. Treefarm Products
1.        Fuelwood for Tobacco Leaf Curing.  Virginia tobacco is principally
grown during the dry season in the Ilocos region, i.e. in the provinces of
Ilocos Sur, Ilocos Norte, La Union and Abra. The present annual output averages
30,000 tons of flue-cured tobacco. Traditionally, flue-curing is carried out by
burning firewood, and this accounts for over 90% of the fuels used. Total
flue-curing requirements amount to about 700,000 cu m (solid) of firewood
annually, but fuelwood supplies are dwindling. Forests and bush lands in the
Ilocos region are becoming severely exhausted and distances over which fuelwood
is being transported have become excessive (more than 100 km in some cases).
Consequently, the average delivered price of firewood has soared from 25 cu m
stacked (= P 38 cu m solid) to P 50 cu m stacked (= P 76 cu m solid) in the
past few years.
2.        The situation has been aggravated by the Government's recent ban on
logging within the region as a measure to halt further forest denudation. On
the other hand, efforts to substitute other fuels for wood have slowed down
because of sharply rising prices of crude oil-based fuels. The tobacco industry
is now looking toward quick-growing fuelwood tree farms as the solution for its
present predicament.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        The total requirement of the industry could be met by 20,000-25,000 ha
of Giant Ipil-Ipil forest. The Philippine Virginia Tobacco Administration (PVTA)
has a scheme to distribute 20 to 50 seedlings to tobacco farmers for planting
on their unused land; however, the aggregate area under this program is not
likely to reach 1,000 ha. BFD is assisting another local firewood scheme aimed
at establishing 4,100 ha of Giant Ipil-Ipil on unused municipal and provincial
lands, but the firewood which will eventually become available from these lots
may also be used for purposes other than flue-curing. BFD's planting activity
on government forest land is directed toward soil and watershed protection as
well as toward valuable industrial long-rotation species. In the future, BFD
will also concentrate on large scale coniferous plantations in the region (re
the BFD subproject). Although BFD's total reforestation program to the
Ilocos region envisages about 39,000 ha over five years, it is very doubtful
that this goal can be achieved. Even in the unlikely event that as much as
30% of the planned 39,000 ha would be planted to firewood (i.e., about 12,000
ha), this would fall far short of meeting the supply gap. There is also a
growing, but unspecified demand for fuelwood for a number of other purposes,
both locally and outside the region./l Moreover, Giant Ipil-Ipil will be
used by the rural population for a variety of other purposes, particularly as
a low cost building material. Therefore, the 8,000 ha of fuelwood tree farms
proposed under the Bank project would have a secure market and the financial
benefits to small farmers would be lucrative (Annex 3).
4.        The price to be paid to the smallholder tree farmer is calculated
below:
Average price paid by tobacco farmers
at farmgate (P 40 cu m stacked)                P 62 cu m solid
Transportation from roadside to tobacco
farm (max. distance 40-50 km)              -   P 25 cu m solid
Price at tree farm roadside                    P 37 cu m solid
Harvesting and extraction costs            -   P 13 cu m solid
Stumpage price                                 P 24 cu m solid
5.        One ton of bunker oil delivered to the farmer in Northern Luzon
commands a price of about P 920 and has an absolute calorific value of 2.8
times that of one ton of air-dry Giant Ipil-lpil fuelwood. Under the assump-
tion of a relative burning efficiency of 65% for air-dry fuelwood in curing
/1 Tile factories, bakeries, general household, etc.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
barns, compared with that of bunker, 4.3 tons of fuelwood /1 costing P 380
delivered, are needed to replace 1 ton of bunker. Fuelwood costs to tobacco
farmers therefore are about 40% that of bunker oil per curing. Also, the tra-
ditional burners could continue to be used, without the need for costly conver-
sion of burners to use oil. Import savings on fuel resulting from the project
component, assuming all wood produced from the 8,000 ha is used as a fuel
source, would amount to about US$2 million./2
6.        Leaf Meal for Livestock Feeds.  Over the past three years
annual supplies of leaf meal by General Milling Corporation and Mandaue
Milling Industries Corporation (who jointly share 95% of the market) have
varied between 24,000 and 28,000 metric tons (at 13% moisture). About half
of this has been sold in the form of pellets to Japanese feed milling firms
(in Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Kimsho and Zennak Corp.), who use it as a substitute
for alfalfa. The rest has been used in livestock feeds by the domestic
feedmill industry. Japanese imports of alfalfa leaf meal have ranged from
292,000 metric tons to 469,000 metric tons over the period 1971-75. It is
projected that these will be in excess of 600,000 metric tons by 1980. Of
this, it is conservatively estimated that Ipil-Ipil pellets (which are some
20% cheaper than alfalfa pellets) might substitute for 100,000 metric tons;
thus there is an export market adequate to absorb all of the projected
production from this project component at prevailing prices.
7.        Charcoal for Manufacture of PVC Resins.  MVC, including its subsidi-
ary Maria Christina Chemical Industries, has an annual need of 50,000 tons /1
of high quality wood charcoal, as a raw material for producing PVC resins and
related chemicals and as a reducing agent in its steel mill. Because of
present wood shortages, the corporation is forced to use alternative raw
materials also, i.e. charcoal from coconut shells (15,000 tons/year), imported
coal (8,000 to 9,000 tons/year) and some petroleum coke. Together these
latter sources account for roughly half the present total requirements. The
balance comes from wood charcoal, of which 80% is from mangrove and 20% from
residual wood from logged over concessions.
8.        Coconut shell-based charcoal is often in short supply and the
price fluctuates erratically, mainly because of concentrated Japanese purchases
at irregular intervals for the manufacture of activated carbon. Coal is less
suitable to the process than wood charcoal and coke has a high and undesirable
sulphur content. The mangrove charcoal is made by small scale operators.
The cutting of mangrove swamps, however, is destroying large areas of fish
breeding grounds. Mangrove charcoal is now being transported to Iligan on
barges of 400-500 tons payload. This production and transportation chain is
/1 Fuelwood of plantation grown Giant Ipil-Ipil at 25-30% moisture content
(air-dry) weighs about 0.7 tons/solid cu m.
/2 Cost of crude oil equivalent.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
difficult to monitor, and over the years the supply of mangrove has been
declining. Exports of mangrove wood to Japan may have contributed to this
trend. MVC is therefore initiating a scheme aimed at supplying the company's
total wood requirements, partly from its own concession and the balance from
local tree farms. Assuming a consumption of 6.6 solid cu m of wood from Giant
Ipil-Ipil per ton of charcoal, annual needs would total about 330,000 cu m or
about 400,000 cu m by 1980. Of the 4,000 ha concession about two thirds are
plantable, and MVC is at present establishing strands of Giant Ipil-Ipil in
the area. Fully planted the concession may yield a sustained supply of
120,000 cu m (solid) per year./l The company further proposes plantings on
tree farms of 3,700 ha, which can be expected to yield roughly 160,000 cu m
(solid) each year./2 The combined scheme would fill 85% of the MVC's present
needs and 70% of its future needs. The market for the wood from the tree
farms is therefore secure; indeed, the area of the tree farming component
could be increased later on to 6,500 ha without creating a marketing problem
for the wood generated. Based on present-day prices, the price to be paid for
the wood can be approximated as follows:
Factory delivered price of mangrove charcoal             P 300/ton
Transportation from kiln to mill (max. 50 km)    -    P 43/ton
Charcoaling fee (5 drums = 1 cu m charcoal at
P 7 per cu m; 3 cu m charcoal = 1 ton)              -    P 105/ton
P 2/ton
Price of wood at kiln (6.6 solid cu m wood   =
1 ton charcoal)                                      P P 23/cu m (solid)
Harvesting and extraction costs stumpage price   -    P 10/cu m (solid)
P 13/cu m (solid)
9.        This residual price would lead to a relatively slow cost recovery of
the tree farmers' investment. However, an increase by only P 3 to P 16/cu m
would already result in satisfactory farm cash flow (Annex 3). This would raise the
price for the charcoal at the mill by P 20 (6.7%) to P 320/ton, an increase
which should be absorbed by the likely gains from regularity of supplies and
uniformity of raw material. Also scope exists for tree farmers to do their own
charcoaling, thereby greatly increasing their profits. MVC intends to actively
encourage tree farmers to produce charcoal, and would provide the necessary
technical advice.
/1 To be increased to 60,000 tons/year after completion of mill improvements.
/2  Yield expectations by MYC are higher (75 cu m/ha/year vs. 40-45 cu m/ha/year -
Mission estimates) but their projections appear to be optimistic.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
10.       Wood for Particle Board (4,000 ha).  DATICOR has a large sawmill /1
and a sawnwood processing plant at Mati in Davao Oriental, Mindanao. It has
also obtained Board of Investment (BOI) approval for a 33,000 ton/annum (corres-
ponding to about 48,000 cu m/year /2' particle board mill to be integrated with
its existing mills. According to the corporation, the main equipment has
already been preselected and start-up would be in 1980. According to DATICOR's
market study, part of the production would be exported with sales and distribu-
tion being handled through an affiliate marketing company.
11.       At present the Philippines has only one particle board plant, but its
production is insignificant./3 There have hardly been any imports of particle
board in the past, and therefore this product is practically new in the Philip-
pines. On the other hand, the domestic long-trend consumption of all wood-based
panels /4 is currently about 200,000 cu m annually, and is projected to rise by
3% per year. Where particle board is becoming available at competitive prices,
it quickly wins a market share from "all wooden panels," of around 10% in
semi-industrial societies as in the Philippines. This would indeed leave
DATICOR with the necessity to export at least half of the production or even
more if additional domestic capacities are installed.
12.       DATICOR intends to use the following raw materials for wood supply:
processing wastes from the existing mill (this has been a condition for
obtaining BOI's approval); temporarily, logging waste and residual wood from
the corporation's 86,000 ha timber concessions; and later, as it matures, wood
from tree farms. Proportions coming from each of these sources are yet unde-
fined and may change over time. At a wood consumption ranging 2.2 to 2.5 solid
cu m per ton of particle board made from Philippine natural hardwoods, annual
requirements would be of the order of 73,000 to 83,000 solid cu m, depending on
species mix, processing losses, and moisture content. If in the long run,
approximately one half of this quantity will be made up of milling waste and
logging waste, the other half would have to come from tree farm wood. This
wood,/5 however, will have a much lighter specific gravity than Philippine
natural hardwoods, necessitating a wood consumption of at least 3.5 solid cu
m/ton of particle board. For one half of the output, this would correspond to
a wood intake of 58,000 solid cu m.
13.       DATICOR proposes a tree farm scheme of 4,000 ha.  At the anticipated
rate of planting this area would generate a sustained yield of 110,000 solid
cu m after 10 to 12 years. This would almost correspond to total requirements
of the planned mill, if solely this source of raw material could be used.
/1  Production 1973:  34,000 cu m sawnwood;  1974:  25,500 cu m sawnwood.
/2 One cu m of particle board weighs 690 kg.
/3 National Housing Authority's mill at Novaliches; capacity less than
50 tons/day; not continually in operation.
/4 Plywood, fiberboard, particle board.
/5 Mainly Albizzia falcataria.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Since this may not be possible because of the BOI stipulation and quality
considerations, the corporation would use the balance of tree farm wood, which
roughly equals 50,000 cu m/annually, for other, not yet clearly defined purposes.
If any other production than particle board is planned, e.g. special sawnwood
or veneer, this should not lead to longer rotations entailing the postponing of
farmers' revenues, unless thinnings used for particle board are adequately
priced to enable timely debt servicing. In any case, DATICOR has given the
assurance that they would fully honor the marketing agreements with the tree
farmers and buy the wood as it matures.
14.       In its study, DATICOR is stating a wood cost of P 280/ton of particle
board. The price to the farmer can be derived as follows:
Price at mill, P 280/3.5 cu m                    P 80/cu m solid
Transport (max. 40-50 km)                  -    P 25/    "
Price at tree farm roadside                   P 55/cu m solid
Harvesting and extraction cost                  P 16/
Stumpage price                                P 39/cu m solid
The calculated roadside price of P 55/cu m (solid) is considerably higher than
the price mentioned by the corporation's representative of P 30 or somewhat
more. It appears that P 35/cu m (solid) suffices well for cost recovery
and would provide an attractive profit to the farmer, if the wood is grown
on an eight-year rotation (Annex 3). This would permit the lowering of the
sales price of the particle board, thereby strengthening its competitiveness,
particularly in view of exports.
B. Pulpwood for the Pulp and Paper Industry
15.       Production and Consumption Trends.  There are presently 21 firms in
the domestic pulp and paper industry with a combined supply potential of
320,000 tons/yr /1 of paper and paperboard. This potential currently falls
short of domestic consumption by an estimated 60,000-80,000 tons/yr. Nine
companies have integrated pulp and paper/paperboard manufacture, nine are
unintegrated paper/paperboard mills and two are unintegrated minor special
pulp producers. Pulp supply potential is around 200,000 tons/yr or only
about 60% of that of paper. Three firms produce woodpulp, but none of them
long-fiber woodpulp.
/1 Estimated at 82% of rated capacity.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
16.       In the past, production has been substantially below supply potential,
mainly because of the lack of raw materials. Except for PICOP (Paper Industries
Corporation of the Philippines), the largest producer, the pulp mills have
suffered from scarcity of pulpwood. Paper mills have suffered from the non-
availability of local pulp and at times, high prices of imported pulp and
waste paper. The underuse of installed pulp mill capacities has aggravated the
imbalance between production potential and demand for paper and paperboard.
17.       Projections on the supply /1 and demand for paper and paperboard pro-
ducts have been made by several agencies,/2 though some were made before the
recent period of high inflation and the energy crisis which have reduced con-
sumption. The following series, however, represents a conservative estimate
which settles between existing "low" and "medium" projections.
Supply Potential /a         Demand /b        Gap
=-- 1,000 tons/yr of paper and paper board ---
1976                         320                  390            70
1980                         350                  530           180
1985                         350                  700           350
1990                         350                  950 /c        600
/a Existing mills plus known expansion plans.
/b Estimated trend figure.
/c Extrapolation.
18.       The resulting shortfalls have to be balanced by imports and increased
capacities. Imports are now, as a trend, approaching 100,000 tons/yr. This is
larger than indicated by the table above, due to underutilization of existing
capacities. In the long run, imports can be replaced by domestic production,
with the exception of a few special grades.
19.       The shortfalls in pulp are even greater because domestic pulp
production currently lags behind the paper industry's requirements by roughly
100,000 tons/annum. The bulk of this, currently 60,000 to 70,000 tons/yr, is
long-fiber woodpulp all of which has to be imported.
/1 Estimated at 82% of rated capacity.
/2 World Bank, FAO, BOI.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
20.       Pulpwood Equivalents and Demand.  The following is a tentative
approximation of wood quantities needed to achieve national self-sufficiency
in pulp and paper/paperboard production. For the calculations, use of secondary
fiber is maximized, that of long fiber minimized, and the possible additional
use of nonwood pulps has been disregarded for simplification. The figures
should be interpreted not individually but as a trend.
Projected Gap of Pulp /a Supply         Roundwood Equivalent
(1,000 tons/yr)                  ('000 cu m (solid)/yr)
Virgin Virgin
Secondary       Short   Long      Short     Long
Total     Fiber         Fiber   Fiber    Fiber       Fiber      Total
1976/77   180        80            30      70       120        380         500
1980      300       100            90     110       380        600        980
1985      480       140           190     150       800        800      1,600
1990      750       190           350     210    1,500       1,100      2,600
/a Includes mechanical pulp, i.e. mainly short fiber in the Philippines.
21.       The trend shows convincingly that by the year 1990, about 2-1/2 mil-
lion cu m of additional pulpwood will be needed, at least I million cu m of
this being long-fiber wood. On the assumption that one third of the short-fiber
deficiency can be met from natural wood, logging waste and milling residues,
and an equivalent of up to 200,000 cu m long-fiber wood from natural pine and
other long-fiber raw materials, plantations should be established for the
following annual quantities:
Short-fiber          Long-fiber (pine)
Pulpwood (solid cu m)                    1,000,000                900,000
MAI (cu m/ha/yr)                                25                      14
Plantation area needed (ha)                 40,000                 64,000
Average rotation (years)                         8                      15
Annual planting area needed (ha)             5,000                  4,300



ANNEX 2
Page 9
22.       These are crude global figures and refer only to the conservatively
projected demand of the pulp and paper industry for domestic supplies. If the
demands of possible export-oriented mills and other wood-based industries were
considered a considerably larger volume and area would be required. Futhermore,
pine planted in 1977 would mature to pulpwood size only after 1990, when demand
will have risen further. Therefore, an annual planting program of at least
5,000 ha of hardwoods and likewise 5,000 ha of pines each year for pulpwood
alone would be required to meet the needs of the late 1980s/ early 1990s. (The
aggregate of current annual pulpwood plantings probably does not exceed the
level to sustain available mill capacities.)
23. Short-fiber Pulpwood (2,400 ha). RPPMI is geared to produce about
22,000 tons/ yr of various paperboard grades in its Iligan mill, but longer-term
development plans envisage output at the rated capacity of 27,000 tons/yr. Its
pulp line is geared to about 15,000 tons/yr. A minor proportion of this is
used to produce long-fiber market pulp,t1 but the major part comprises captive
short-fiber pulp from a mixture of hardwood logging and milling wastes. The
balance of the fiber needed by the papermill is waste paper and imported
long-fiber pulp. The supply situation of short-fiber pulpwood has become
increasingly difficult, due to increasing transport distances to cut-over
timber areas that still allow salvage logging. The mill has consequently been
running below its available production capacity. The company therefore has
decided to embark on a tree planting scheme which would eventually generate all
of the wood needed, most of it on smallholder tree farms. Originally RPPMI had
been thinking of Albizzia falcataria only as the species to be grown on tree
farms. However, because of its light weight, this species, although suited for
chemical pulping, exhibits a high consumption figure of wood per ton of pulp./2
Other, heavier quick-growing hardwoods are likely to occupy part of the scheme.
PICOP, which recently has amalgamated with RPPMI, is particularly interested in
Eucalyptus, but the final species make-up has yet to be decided upon. For the
purpose of calculations, 100% planting with Albizzia f. has been assumed.
24.       To produce 100,000 cu m of wood annually on a sustained basis - the
approximate quantity mentioned by RPPMI as needed in the longer term - about
3,400 ha of Albizzia plantings would be required. The company has proposed
only 2,400 ha for tree farming under contract. The difference is mainly due to
RPPMI's more optimistic growth expectations in planted forests./3
25.       The present raw material, which is mainly logging waste, commands a
price of P 60/solid cu m at the mill. Deducting P 25 cu m for transport costs
to the pulp mill (average distance 50 km) would leave the farmer with a price
of P 35/cu m (solid) for pulpwood cut to uniform size and stacked at the road-
side. PICOP is currently paying tree farmers P 17.50/cu m (solid) more, because
of a higher price at mill (P 5/cu m) and a transportation subsidy (P 12/50 cu m
/1 Special pulp from abaca.
/2 6.5-7 cu m (solid)/ton pulp (90% moist).
/3 Mission estimate of MAi: 30 cu m/ha
RPPMI estimate of MAI:  over 40 cu m/ha



ANNEX 2
Page 10
at 50 km distance). However, P 35/cu m at roadside is sufficient for easy debt
servicing and an attractive profit (Annex 4). The stumpage equivalent would be
P 18.50 after deduction of P 16.50/cu m (solid) for logging and extraction to
roadside.
26. Long-fiber Pulpwood (Plantation Development by BFD). Cellophil Resources
Corp. (CRC), which belongs to the Herdis Group, is erecting a 66,000 tons/yr
unbleached long-fiber market kraft pulp mill to start up in 1980, about 15 km
east of Bangued in Abra Province, Northern Luzon. The major plant equipment
has already been ordered. The mill has Government backing and a DBP financing
guarantee. The mill should be able to sell its output easily as this would not
even fully meet the country's unbleached long-fiber pulp requirements in 1985.
27.       For the raw material supply, CRC plans to extract, at- full capacity,
about 270,000 solid cu m/yr of natural Benguet pine (Pinus kesiya)/1 from its
200,000 ha concession, which it /2 holds in Abra, Apayao-Kalinga, and Mountain
Provinces. The indigenous old growth pine is scattered over very difficult
terrain. Hauling distances to the mill, after extraction to the long haul
route, will be about 70 km in the first years of operation.
28.       Pulpwood costs at the mill will be expensive under these circumstances,
and an estimate of P 215/solid cu m u.b. (US$29.5) has been mentioned by CRC.
This cost would include about P 35/cu m for stumpage and reforestation.  As the
hauling distance increases over the years, the wood cost will go up further.
Therefore the company is making efforts to establish pine plantations closer
to the mill site to obtain cheaper raw material in the future. BFD, which has
a large reforestation commitment in the Ilocos region (which includes Abra), is
willing to coordinate its own planting program with that of CRC by gradually
establishing 15,000 ha of pine stands in the terrain between the corporation's
concessions and the mill site. During 1978-82, BFD would plant 3,000 ha of
this target area (BFD Subproject).
29.       Allowing for the lighter specific gravity of plantation pine wood
as compared to naturally grown pine wood, annual softwood requirements would
rise to approximately 320,000 solid cu m u.b. At a conservative average net
yield expectation of 200 cu m/ha/yr. at a 15-year rotation, altogether about
24,000 of pine plantations would be needed for sustained supply, the average
planting (and future cutting) area being 1,600 ha/yr. CRC's own planting
program, which started about two years ago, would attempt to reach this target
around 1982/83. BFD's participation, however, is of equal importance as CRC's
own planting, considering the rapidly growing deficit of long-fiber pulp supply
in the country. The corporation has indicated plans to add another pulp line
as additional raw material becomes available. Future plans may include also a
bleach plant and a paper mill. The mill site appears to be suitable for later
mill expansion. Against this background any pine pulpwood generated by BFD
plantations in Abra is most likely to have a ready market. The price to be
charged for the plantation pine pulpwood should be equal to, or preferably
/1 5 to max. 10% of hardwood pulpwood may be mixed.
/2 Together with its sister company Cellulose Corp.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
lower than that for the natural pine wood. Accounting for the difference in
pulping yield leads to ar. approximate border price of P 180/solid cu m. A
tentative calculation indicates that the BFD scheme can stay even below this
figure and still remain a viable project (see Annex 4, Table 10).



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Treefarming: Species, Technical Data and Farm Models
Contents
Page No.
Species                                                    2
Giant Ipil-Ipil:                                           2
Wood Production                                       3
Rotation and Yield                                 3
Properties and Consumption of Wood                 3
Leaf Production                                       4
Rotation and Yield                                 4
Protein and Mimosine                               4
Albizzia falcataria:                                       5
Rotation, Thinning, Yields                            5
Wood Properties and Consumption                       5
Table 1: Areas of Tree Farm Development According to Market
Table 2:  Costs and Returns per hectare from Giant Ipil-Ipil
Production for Firewood for Flue Curing Tobacco
Table 3:  Costs and Returns per Hectare from Giant Ipil-Ipil
Production for Charcoal (MVC)
Table 4:  Costs and Returns per Hectare from Giant Ipil-Ipil
Production for Leaf Meal (GMC & MICO)
Table 5:  Costs and Returns per Hectare from Albizzia falcataria
Production for Pulpwood and Particle Board (RPPMI &
DATICOR)
Table 6:  Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return from a 5-ha
Giant Ipil-Ipil Treefarms in Ilocos (Mainly for
Firewood) and Iligan (Mainly for Charcoal)
Table 7:  Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return from a 2-ha
Giant Ipil-Ipil Leaf Meal Treefarm
Table 8:  Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return from a 10-ha
Albizzia falcataria Treefarm



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Species
1.        Two main species will be used for treefarms under the project
(Table 1), viz:
Giant Ipil-ipil (Leucaena leucocephala)
Moluccan Sau (Albizzia falcataria)
2.        Smallholder tree farms would use quick-growing, broadleaf species
(i.e. excluding conifers like pines) since these permit short rotations and
early revenues. Between seeding or planting and the first harvest, it takes
one year to first harvest on tree farms for leaf meal, four to five years for
fuelwood and seven to nine years for short-fiber pulpwood. Also, these
species regenerate from coppice, which with proper tending, will grow into
stands of similar volumes and quality as the initially planted stands, thereby
virtually eliminating re-establishment costs. Three to four consecutive
coppice rotations are considered possible for wood production, without severe
decline in growth. Unlimited coppicing should be possible when trees are used
for leaf meal, subject to adequate use of fertilizers.
3.        In addition to Giant Ipil-ipil and Albizzia, however, certain other
broadleaved species may also be planted on tree farms where the farmer and the
cooperating company agree on this particular point. Such additional species
would also be fast-growing species, such as Bagras (Eucalyptus deglupta), Yemane
(Gmelina arborea) and Kaatoan bangkal (Anthocephalus chinensis) for production
of pulp and particle board.
Giant Ipil-ipil
4.        In its common form, the species Leucaena is a brush-like tree widely
spread in the Philippines and well-known to the local population as "native"
Ipil-ipil.  Originally introduced from abroad, it now grows throughout the
country. Native Ipil-ipil is being cropped for firewood, charcoal and leaves
for animal feed. Since it develops only into a bushy tree, its wood yields
are low. By contrast, certain "Giant" varieties of Leucaena produce erect
stems and are fast growing. Limited data from the oldest stands of Giant
Ipil-ipil in the Philippines (approximately seven years old) indicate average
growth rates of 40 to 45 cu m/ha/yr.  Over the last 2.5 years, several hundred
hectares of Giant Ipil-ipil have been planted throughout the country. The
growth of these plantings has been very good and has greatly encouraged
an expansion of the planting program with Giant leucaenas. Moreover, Giant
Ipil-ipil develops a lusher crown with a leaf production that exceeds that
of native Ipil-ipil by several times.
5.        Giant Ipil-ipil is adaptable to widely ranging edaphic and climatic
conditions in the tropics. It grows well even under periodic drought stress
and on rocky soils with little top soil. Soil pH should be above 6.5, or the
soil limed as a corrective measure. The latter, however, is generally too ex-
pensive for tree farms producing wood. The species should not be propagated
at elevations above 900 m.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.        However, since Giant Ipil-ipil production for wood and leaves is a
recent development in the Philippines, standard procedures for plantation
establishment and management have yet to be developed. Also yield and other
technical data for various parts of the country are largely unknown. A
special research component is therefore included in the project for the dual
purpose of providing more reliable agronomic data as well as monitoring tree
farm development during project implementation (Annex 5). Meanwhile, in
the absence of more accurate information, the data used in this appraisal
are provisional and should be refined as local data are acquired. Tables 2,
3 and 4 list the technical assumptions used. Farm budgets for Treefarms
growing Giant Ipil Ipil for firewood, charcoal or leaf meal are given in
Tables 6 and 7.
Wood Production
7.        Rotation and Yield.  The "Giant" strains of Leucaena leucocephala,
K8 and K28, are high volume producers but optimum rotation to achieve maximum
yield is still unknown. This topic is therefore included in the research
component (Annex 5). Yields depend mainly on variety, soils, rainfall and
spacing. In Ilocos, yield expectations over a four-year rotation are about
120 cu m/ha. In Iligan, where rainfall is evenly distributed over a large
part of the year, an average harvest of 170 cu m/ha at the end of the fourth
year is expected, possibly with a light thinning mainly for domestic fuelwood
in the third year. Although a five-year rotation would probably raise the
average annual growth rate, tree farmers will tend to start cutting their
trees after four years in order to cash in on their investments. Giant Ipil-ipil
regenerates from coppice following clear cutting. The subsequent three to
four coppice rotations, also at four-year lengths, would be expected to give
similar yields as the first planted stand of Giant Ipil-ipil. This matter
would likewise be investigated in the research program (Annex 5).
8.        Properties and Consumption of Wood.  As compared to natural wood from
mixed species, wood from Giant Ipil-ipil will have the advantage of uniformity
moisture content, dimensions and form of the bolts. This would make all
phases of wood handling easier and facilitate better control of the burning/
charcoaling process. Wood density of plantation grown Giant Ipil-ipil ranges
0.50-0.55, compared with 0.70-0.75 for Native Ipil-ipil. It could therefore
be used as a raw materials for charcoal and as an industrial fuel. For the
MVC project component, charcoal production by earth kilns is contemplated.
Since earth kilns yield lower percentages of charcoal (20-25%) than retorts
(25-30%), this would put the consumption figure of cu m (solid) of wood per
ton of charcoal produced to 5.3 to 6.7 /1 instead of 4.4 to 5.3 in the retort
method. Giant Ipil-ipil fuelwood, air-dry (25-30% moisture content), combusts
at about 32% of the calorific value of fuel oil. Consequently, at a burning
efficiency equal to 65% that of bunker oil, about 6 cu m (solid) of wood /2
are needed to replace one ton of fuel oil. Studies into these aspects would
be in the research component (Annex 5).
/1 MVC use 6.6 cu m for their calculations, which is reasonable.
/2 One solid cu m (air dry) = 0.7 ton.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Leaf Production
9.        Rotation and Yield.  All of the Giant Ipil-ipil strains (K6, K8,
K28) will substantially outyield, in terms of leaf production, the Native
strain (K43). Data available also show that often K8 and K28 will yield as
much leaf as the Peruvian (K6), but the latter is often preferred in Hawaii
because of its bushy growth. Under the project, giant strains only would
be used but it would not be practical to discriminate between the giant
strains which are expected to yield 10 tons (c.15% moisture)/ha/year (see
Tables 4 and 7).
10.       First leaf harvest should not be taken until the base of the trunk
reaches a diameter of about 3 cm, or until one seed production cycle has been
completed. This stage would usually be reached 9-12 months after planting.
Harvesting should be done periodically, e.g., every two-to-three months
depending on growing conditions, to maintain a high proportion of leaf
to stem. Since optimum techniques of harvesting have yet to be established,
the project research component would provide for such studies by PCARR/FORI
and GMC (Annex 6). It is assumed that the branches will be picked manually
five times a year, giving about two ton dry leaf (i.e. 13% moisture content),
and about 6.6 ton wet leaf, per harvest. Estimated labor input is 40-45
man-days, including picking, drying, bagging and storing. This corresponds to
an efficiency of about 6 kg dry (20 kg wet) leaf per man-hour.
11.       Protein and Mimosine.  For a long time it has been known that
excessive leucaena leaf meal feeding can have adverse effects on nonruminant
animals, the most characteristic being hair loss. Reasons for conflicting
reports on the effect of leucaena feeding, have been attributed to the quantity
of leucaena, and more especially the quantity of mimosine, consumed per unit
body weight, the duration of feeding, and the stage of development of the hair
follicle. In some areas boars are fed leucaena to cause shedding of the
coarse bristles, a practice used to increase the sale price of the animals.
Ruminants suffer less from apparent leucaena toxicity than nonruminants.
This is due to the degradation of mimosine to 3,4-dihydroxipyridine (DHP)
by micro-organisms in the rumen of animals accustomed to feeding on this
material.
12.       However, young Ipil-ipil forage can be a valuable source of crude
protein, vitamins and minerals in livestock feed. Considerable experimental
evidence is available to show that at 5% of the ration, toxic effects are in-
significant. The chemical composition of Ipil-ipil is similar in value to
Alfalfa meal, as indicated below:
Ipil-ipil            Alfalfa
--------- %    -----  …--
Crude protein                   24                   20
Fat                              3                    4
Fiber                           13                   13
Moisture                        13                   13



ANNEX 3
Page 5
For poultry feeding, leucaena leaf meal is a very good source of pigment
for egg yolk and shanks and breasts of broilers. For layers fed with white
corn or sorghum, 4-6% of good quality Ipil-ipil leaf meal will impart the
desirable color in egg yolk. For broilers a level of 3% will impart yellow
color to the shanks and breasts. Five percent leaf meal is usually recommended
in the rations for poultry and swine diets.
Albizzia falcataria
13.       Tree farms with this species will be established over a total of
6,400 ha in Mindanao in two schemes: one 2,400 ha in connection with RPPMI/
PICOP near Iligan for pulpwood, and 4,000 ha around Mati, Davao Oriental, with
the cooperation of DATICOR for providing part of the wood raw material for
manufacturing particle board (Table 1). Climate, topography and soils are
rather similar in the two locations, but the Mati area has deeper and more
fertile soils and all year round rains. Therefore, volume yields would be
expected to be greater than around Iligan. On the other hand, maintenance
costs may have to be higher in Mati because of more vigorous weed growth.
Another difference, indicated by DATICOR, is that tree farmers around Mati
will tend to use agricultural intercropping during the early years of the
tree rotation, which is feasible because of the fertile soil (see Tables 5
and 8).
14.       Since the late 1960s, Albizzia has been planted on 35,000-40,000 ha
in the vicinity of PICOP's Bislig mill in eastern Mindanao. Of this area,
about 14,000 ha are on tree farms and the remainder on government land leased
by the company. Approximately 8,000 ha of the former have successfully been
established as a part of the World Bank financed Pilot Tree Farming project
(Loan 998-PR), which will encompass some 10,400 ha once accomplished. The
method of planting and maintenance is well established.
15.       Rotation, Thinning, Yields.  The standard pulpwood rotation for
Albizzia is eight years. Average wet harvest would be 240 solid cu m/ha,
not counting any volume from possible earlier thinnings. Albizzia is
known to respond well to thinnings. This is taking place on a number of
tree farms in PICOP's scheme. However, little experience is available on
thinning volume estimates and thinning regimes. Furthermore, while thin-
ning may be desirable from the viewpoint of the farmer because they would
create early revenues, they may not suit well the raw material requirements
of the processing plant because of the light density and poor strength
of immature Albizzia wood. For this reason no commercial cuttings prior to
clear cutting at the rotation age of eight years are considered here, but the
subject is referred to the research component because of its potential
interest (Annex 5).
16.       Wood Properties and Consumption.  Albizzia is a light wood with
specific gravity of 0.3 or less. The wood is almost white. It is well
suited as a raw material for refiner mechanical pulp, the primary fiber
fraction in newsprint for which PICOP is using increasing quantities.
The light weight is directly related to a lower than usual pulp yield.
One ton (10% moisture content) of refiner groundwood pulp is equivalent
to 4 cu m of Albizzia wood and roughly double that amount for chemical



ANNEX 3
Page 6
pulps. If particle board would be produced from Albizzia wood alone, the
consumption figures partly counteract the advantages of rapid growth. On the
other hand, the two companies interested in buying Albizzia wood from tree
farms under the project have established in laboratory tests or mill runs that
this species can be used both for manufacturing chemical paper pulp and as a
raw material for particle board. However, the existing RPPMI pulp mill and
the DATICOR particle board mill scheduled for start-up by 1980, would be using
mixed natural wood for several years until the first significant volumes of
Albizzia become available. There would, therefore, be ample time for mill
trials to develop the optimum processing conditions for Albizzia wood.
Research into this topic is included in the project's research component
(Annex 5). Because of its brittle nature, Albizzia should not be planted on
high slopes and ridges in typhoon areas.
17.       If large volumes of thinnings would be used this would further
reduce the yield percentage obtainable in processing as the immature wood of
Albizzia is even lower in density and weaker in strength than the mature wood.
Late thinnings, e.g. in year six, may yield a more suitable wood than earlier
thinnings. This aspect would also be further investigated. Income from
thinnings is not included in the farm models since by the time thinnings
could be taken from farms developed under the project, mature albizzia
would be more abundant than at present and thinnings would be less likely
to be accepted by the participating companies.



ANNEX 3
Table I
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Areas of Treefarm Development According to Market
Tree species
& location                Market                     Purpose                Area
(ha)
Giant IPil Ipil (Leucaena leucocephala)
Ilocos Region      Mainly farmers for
flue curing tobacco               Firewood               8,000
Visayas            a) General Milling
Corporation (GMC)             Leaf Meal               5,000
b) Mandaue Manufacturing/a
Industries Corp. (MICO)       Leaf Meal                 500/a
Iligan            Mabuhay Vinyl Corp. (MVC)          Charcoal for           3,700
P.V. Resins
Subtotal                                                                17,200
Albizzia falcataria
Davao              Davao Timber Corp.                Particle
(DATICOR)                        Board                   4,000
Iligan             Rustan Pulp and Paper
Mills, Inc. (RPPMI)               Paper pulp             2,400
Subtotal                                                                 6,400
Unspecified        To be used according to
demand (see para. 3.13)                                  5,000
Total                                                                   28,600
/a MICO would not formally provide market contracts, but as discussed in
Annex 3, demand for leaf meal is very large and no marketing problems are
envisaged.



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Costs and Returns per Hectare from Giant Ipil-Ipil Production for Firewood (for flue curing tobacco)
L   M
a   a                                                                                  ------------------------------------- Years -----------------------------------
b   t                                                                  Unit
o   e    Physical requirements                                      costs (P)          1         2         3         4          5         6         7        8      9 /h------21
r   r
i                                                                                 ------------------------------------- (P/ha) --------------------------------
a
1
X         Land clearing, 30 MD                                        7              210
X    Purchase of seedlings at 5,000/ha La                        0.20          1,000
X         Lining, staking, digging                14 MD)
X         Seedling transport and distribution  6 MD) 35 MD           7               245
x         Planting                                15 MD)
X    Fertilizer,/b 100 kg + 50 kg/ha                       avg. 1.60/kg          240
X         Fertilizer application, 7 MD                                7                50
X         Weedings, 4 times,/c 52 MD                                  7              365
X    Miscellaneous 1d                                                             60
Subtotal:  tree farm establishment, 124 MD                         2,170
X         Tree farm, 4 MD/year                                       7                           30        30       30         30         30       30       30        30        -
X         Felling, crosscutting, 1-1/4 MD/cu a                       7                                                      1,050 /f                               1,050   1,050
X         Extraction, to roadside, 1/3 MD/cu m                        12 Le                                                   480 /f                                 480      480
X         Singling coppice rattoons, 15 MD                            7                                                       105                                    105        -
X         Weeding coppice stand, 15 MD                                7                                                       105                                    105        -
X    Miscellaneous /d                                                                       50
Total costs                                                         2,170        80        30        30      1,770        30       30        30    1,770   1,530
Revenues                                              37/cu ma                                              4,440                                  4,440   4,440
Man-days annually                                                   124         4         4        4         224         4        4        4       224       190
Labor cost                                                         870         30        30       30      1,770         30       30       30    1,770   1,530
Material costs                                                   1,300         50         -        -           -         -        -        -          -        -
La Spacing 2 x I m; no replanting of failures.
/b  (a) superphosphate - 100 kg/ha at P 1.70/kg)
(b) muriate potash -  50 kg/ha at P 1.40/kg) average 150 kg at P 1.60/kg.
'c Last weeding could be in year 2.
]d Costs associated with application fee for subloan, visits to Bank and fertilizer distributor, tools, etc.
/e  Including share of carabao and sled.
L  Harvestable volume/ha at end of year 4 is 120 cu m (solid).
ft  Price at tobacco farm:  P 40/cu m stacked at roadside - P 62/cu m solid
Hauling at P (0.55/cu m over maximum 40-50 km                    25/cu m solid
Price at roadside for tree farmer                              P 37/cu m solid
/h  Costs and revenues for years 9 etc. follow the cycle of years 5 through 8 until and of 4th rotation in year 21.                                                                   i
rc  >e



PHILIPPINES
SMALLUOLDER TREE FARMING AJND FORESTRY PROJECT
Costs and Returns_per 1lectare from Giant I   -Ipil Production for Charcoal_(MVC)
a   a                                                                                                                       …     Years --------------------------------
b   L                                                                  Unit
o   e    Physical requirements                                       costs (P)         1         2          3         4         5         6          7        8     9 /h------21
r   r
…- - -  - -- -  - - -  --    -  -(P/ha)…-- -              - -  - - - --  - - - - -  - - -
a
X         Land clearing, 30 MD                                        7               210
X    Purchase of seedlings at 6,670/ha /a                        0.20          1,000
X         Lining, staking, digging                 14 MID)
X         Seedling transport and distributtin  6 MD) 35 MD            7               245
X         Planting                                 15 MD)
X    Fertilizer,/b  100 kg + 50 kg/ha                       avg. 1.60/kg         240
X         Fertilizer application, 7 MD                                7                50
X         Weedings, 4 times,/c 52 MD                                  7               365
X    Miscellaneous /d                                                             60
Subtotal;  tree farm establishment, 124 MD                          2,170
X         Tree farm maintenance, 4 MD/year                            7                          30        30        30         30        30       30       30         30
X         Felling, crosscutting, I MD/cu m                            7                                                      1,190 if                              1,190   1,190
X         Extraction, to coaling pit, 1/4 HD/cu m                     12 /e                                                    510 /f                                510       510
x         Singling coppice rattoons, 20 MD                            7                                                        140                                    140        -
X         Weeding coppice stand, 20 MD                                7                                                        140                                    140        -
X    Miscellaneous /d                                                                       50
Total costs                                                         2,170         80        30       30      2,010        30        30       30    2,010   1,700
Revenues                                              26/cu m 14                                             4,420                                 4,420   4,420
Man-days annually                                                   124         4          4        4        257         4        4         4       257      213
Labor cost                                                          870        30        30        30      2,010        30       30       30    2,010   1,700
Material costs                                                    1,300        50          -        -          -         -        -        -          -        -
/a  Spacing 1.5 x I m; no replanting of failures.
/b  (a) superphosphate - 100 kg/ha at P 1.70/kg) average 150 kg at P 1.60/kg
(b) muriate potash -  50 kg/ha at P 1.40/kg)
Lc  Last weeding could be in year 2.
/d  Costs associated with application fee for subloan, visits to tan,* and fertilizer distributor, tools, etc.
/e  Including share of carabao and sled.
Lf  MAI = 40-45 cu m/ha/a, total harvest - 170 cu m (solid) after 4 years.
S  l'rice paid for charcoal at mill    - P 320/ton
Less fee for chlarcoaling             - 105/ton
Less charcoal transport to mill   -  43/ton
Value of wood at coaling pit             P 172/ton                                                                                                                              a Y
approximately P 26/solid ci, m (at I ton of charcoal   6.6 cu m).
Jh  Costs and reventues for year 9 etc. follow the cycle of years 5 through 8 until end of 4th rotation in year 21.



PHILI'PANES
SKALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Costs and Returns per Hectare from Giant Ipil-Ipil Production for Leaf Meal (GMC & MICO)
L M
aa
bt                                     @                                      Y^e-ay                                      Year 2                               Year 3 etc.a
o e
r  r  Physical                                              Unit    Initial               Annual                                                       Annual
i  requirements                                      coits (P)   costs   12th VW.  total   3rd mo.  6th mo.  8th mo.  10th mo.  12th mo.  total
1
X        Clearing, 15 MD                                  7             105        -        105
X         Plowing, harrowiqi, furrowing, 20 MD            15 /a         300        -        300
X    Seeds,/b 6-1/2 kg                               9O             585                 585
X         Seeding and covering of seeds, 10 MD            7              70        -         70
X    Fertilizer:  superphoepbate, at I yr
interv.., 100 kg                             1.70           170        -        170      170                                                  170
X    Fertilizer:  ammonia *ulphate, 100 kg           1.50           150        -        150        -
X        Fertilizer appication:  7 MD at seeding,
later 5 MI                                   7               50        -         50       35         -                               -         35
X        Weedings,/c 4 times in lot yr,
2 times later, 7 MD/weeding                  7              150       S0        200        -        50        -          -         50         100
X    Miscellaneous /d                                                50        -         50        -         -        -                     -
Subtotal:  Ratabl. and care, 80 MD                    1,630        50      1,680      205        50        -          -         50        305
X        Harvesting /e (collecting of leaves,
drying, bagging, stoarng), at
6 kg/hr dry, f 43 MD                         7                -        -          -      300       300      300        300        500      1,50
Total costs                                            1,630       50      1,680      505       350      300        300        30       1,005
Revenues, 2 tons/harveat                  0.30/kg          -        -          -      600       600      600        600        600      3,500
Man-days                                                73        7         80       48        50       43         43         50        234
Labor coat                                            675       50         7}5      335       350      300        300        350   9 1,635
Material coots                                        955         .       95$       170         -        -          -          -        170
/a Includes share of carabao and plow.
Lb 60-70,000/ha at 601 geruination - approximately 6-1/2 kg/ha.
/c Includes any plantation care later on.
/d  Costs associated with application fee for subloan, visits to Bank and fertilizer distributor, tools, etc.
/e  Each harvest 2 ton (< 15  moisture).
/f  1 kg dry - 3.3 kg wet.
LS  Costs and revenues for the following  et*e as for year 2, except miscellaneouip cgts which are estimated to decrease to about P 50/ha.                                        o Z
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a -                                                                                  w1



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING ANp FORESTRY PROJECT
Costs and Returns per Hectare from Albizzia Falcata Production for Pulpwood and Particle Board (RPPMI & DATICOR) /a
L   M
a  a                                                   ------------  ------ - ---- - -----------  Years   --------------- - --------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Y ar
b   t                                                              Unit
a   e    Physical requirements                                   costs (P)           1     2   3   4   5   6   7   8        9       10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17 etc.J&
r   r
i                                                         I                   -------------------------------------- (H/ha) ------ ----------- -
a
1
X        Land clearing, 35 MD                                     7                  245
X    Purchase of seedlings, 150/ha /b                         0.20 /c            150
X        Lining, staking, diggit                10 ND) )
X        Seedling transport and distribution  3 MD) 25 MD         7                  175
X        Planting                               12 1))
X        Replanting, 5 MD                                         7                   35
X    Fertilizer,/d 50 kg/ha                                   1,70/kg            85
X        Fertilizer application, 5 MD                             7                   35
X        Weeding, 5 to 6 times, 77 MD                             7                  540
X    Miscellaneous /e                                                            85
Subtotal:  Estabishmaent:  142 MD                                   1,350
X        Maintenance, 3 MD/year                                   7                       20  20  20  20  20  20  20        20     20  20  20  20  20  20  20          20
X        Felling, crosscutting, debarking, 1-1/2 MD/cu g          7                                                      2,520 I                                    2,520
X        Extraction, 1/2 MD/cu m                                  12 IL                                                  1,440 a                                    1,440
X        Singling coppice rattoons, 5 MD                          7                                                         35                                         35
X        Weeding coppice stand, 25 MD                             7                                                        175                                        175
X    Miscellaneous /e                                                                 20
Total costs                                                         1,350  40  20  20  20  20  20  20  4,190         20  20  20  20  20  20  20    4,190
Revenues                                           SI/eu a                                                8,440 /f                                   8,440
40/cu m                                               9,600 /f                                   9,600
Man-days annually                                                   142   3   3   3   3   3   3   3    513          3   3   3   3   3   3   3        513
Labor cost                                                        1,030  20  20  20  20  20  20  20  4,190         20  20  20  20  20  20  20    4,190
Material costs                                                      320  20   -   -   -   -   -   -         -       -   -   -   -   -   -   -           -
/a  Cmelina arborea, Anthocephalus chinensis, Eucalyptus deglupta are alternative species.
/b  Spacing 4 x 4 m; seedlings for replanting included.
T  Cost delivered.
Ld  Complete dressing N12P27K12 (usu4lly).
Le  Costs associated with application fee for subloan, visits to Bank and fertilizer distributor, tools, etc.
/f  Includes share of carabao and sled.
j   Albizzia falcata, MAI 30 cu m, yield 240 cu m/ha.
/h  Costs and revenues for years 17 etc. follow the cycle of yearu 9 through 16.



ANNEX 3
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return from 5 ha Giant Ipil-Ipil
Tree Farms in Ilocos (Mainly for Firewood) & Iligan- (Mainly for Charcoal)
Year
1      2       3      4      5      6       7       8       9       10     11      12       13
Accumulative area planted          ha                2       4       5    5       5       5       5      5       5       5       5       5     etc.
Area harvested                     ha                -       -       -    -       1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4
Age at harvest                                                                    4       4-1/2  5       5       4       4       4       4
Yield/ha at harvest: Ilocos        solid cu m                                   120    135    150    150    120    120    120    120
Iligan      solid cu m                                  170    190    210    210    170    170    170    170
Yield:  Ilocos                     solid cu m                                   150    169    188    188    150    150    150    150
Iligan                    solid cu m                                   212    238    262    262    212    212    212    212
Planting & maintenance costs
Ilocos                           P            4,340  4,500  2,360  200    412    412    412    412    412    412    412    412
Iligan                           P            4,340  4,300  2,360  200    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500
Harvesting costs
Ilocos                           P                 -      -       -    -  1,912  2,155  2,397  2,397  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912
Iligan                           P                -       -       -    -  2,120  2,380  2,620  2,620  2,120  2,120  2,120  2,120
Total costs (all labor costed)
Ilocos                           P            4.340  4,500  2,360  200  2,324  2,567  2,809  2,809  2,324  2,324  2,324  2,324
Iligan                           P            4,340  4,500  2,360  200  2,620  2,880  3,120  3,120  2,620  2,620  2,620  2,620
Revenue from harvests
Ilocos (P 37/cu m)                                 -      -       -    -  5,550  6,253  6,956  6,956  5,550  5,550  5,550  5,550
Iligan (P 26/cu m)                                -       -       -    -  5,512  6,188  6,812  6,812  5,512  5,512  5,512  5,512
Net farm costs (excluding
family labor)/a
Ilocos                         P            4,166  4,266  2,183   50    224    467    709    709    224    224    224    224
Iligan                         P            4,166  4,266  2,183   50    520    780  1,020  1,020    520    520    520    520
Financial Rate of Return  -  27S (for both charcoal and firewood)
(computed over 15 years)
Net cash inflows
Ilocos:  Loan                    P            4,000  4,000  2,000    -         -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -
Net operating
revenues            P                 -       -       -    -  5,326  5,786  6,247  6,247  5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326
Total            P             4,000  4,000  2,000    -  5,326  5,.786  6.247  6,247  5,326  5,326  5,326   .326              "
Iligan:  Loan                    P            4,000  4,000  2,000    -         -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Net operating          P
revenues             P                -       -       -    -  4,992  5,403  5,792  5,792  4,992  4,992  4,992  4,992
Total            P             4.000  4.000  2,000    -  4.992  5.403  5.792  5,792  4,992  4,992  4.992  4,992
Net cash outflows
Ilocos/Iligan:  Investment    P               4,166  4,266  2,183   50         -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -
Debt
service /b  P                  -      -       -    -  4,730  4,730  4,730  4,730          -       -       -      -
Total    P             4,166  4,266  2,183   50  4,730  4,730  4,730  4,730            -      -       -       -
Net farm cash flow
Ilocos                           P             (166)  (266)  (183) (50)   596  1,056  1,517  1,517  5,326  5,326  5,326  5,326
Iligan                           P             (166)  (266)  (183) (50)   262    678  1,062  1,062  4,992  4,992  4,992  4,992
/a  Assumes family labor contribution of 10  of labor input during tree farm establishment and up to 300 man-days/year for
maintenance and harvesting.
/b Investment compounded at 12% p.a.



ANNEX 3
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return from a 2 ha
Giant Ipil-Ipil Leafmeal Tree Farm
Year
1       2        3       4       5
Accumulative Area planted (ha)                   2        2       2       2        2   etc.
Area harvested (ha)                              2        2       2       2        2    "
Yield/ha (tonsdry matter)                        0      10       10      10       10    "
Yield (tons dry leaves)                          0      20       20      20       20   "'
Planting & maintenance costs (P)            3,360      610      610    610      610    "
Harvesting costs (P)                             -   3,000   3,000  3,000   3,000    "
Total costs (all labor costed)(P)   3.360   3,610   3.610  3,610   3,610    "
Revenue from harvest (P 0.30/kg) (P)             -   6,000   6,000  6,000   6,000
Net farm costs (excluding
family labor)/a                           3,216   1,510   1,510  1,510   1,510
Financial Rate of Return = + 100%
(computed over 10 years)
Net Cash Inflow
Loan (P)                                  3,000      600        -       -       -
Net operating revenue (P)                      -   4,490   4,490  4,490   4,490
Total                                3,000   5,090   4,490  4,490   4,490
Net cash outflow (P)
Investment (P)                            3,216        -        -       -       -
Debt servicing (P)                             -   4,434            -            -
Total (P)                            3,216   4,434         -      -        -
Net farm cash flow (P)                        (216)   (420)  4,490   449    4,490
/a  Assumes family labor contribution of 10% of labor input during tree farm
establishment, and 300 man-days/year from year 2 onwards. Calculation of
project cost includes cash expenditures in second year for fertilizer and
50% of first harvest cost.



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return from a 10 ha Albizzia Falcataria Tree Farm
Year
1      2       3      4    5    6       7      8       9       10      11     12       13    14       15      16
Accumulative area planted  ha                       4       8     10   10   10   10        10     10      10      10      10      10     10      10      10      10     etc.
Area harvested               ha                                                             1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4  1-1/4
Age at harvest               years                                                          6       7      8       8       9      10     10      11       8       8
Yield/ha at harvest          solid cu m u.b.                                             180    210    240    240    265    290    290    310    240    240
Yield at harvest             solid cu m u.b.                                             225    262    300    300    331    362    362    388    300    300
Planting & maintenance
costs                      P                 5,400  5,560  2,940  240  200  200    462    462    462    462    462    462    462    462    462    462
Harvesting costs              P                     -      -       -    -    -    -  3,712  4,323  4,950  4,950  5,462  5,973  5,973  6,402  4,950  4,950
Total costs (all
labor costed)         P                5,400  5,560  2,940  240  200  200  4,174  4,785  5,412  5,412  5,924  6.435  6.435  6,864  5.412  5,412                   "
Revenue from harvesting (P 35/cu m)                                                    7,875  9,170 10,500 10,500 11,585 12,670 12,670 13,580 10,500 10,500
Net farm costs (excluding
family labor) /a                             4,988  5,068  2,574   40    -    -  2,074  2,685  3,312  3,312  3,824  4,335  4,335  4,764  3,312  3,312
Financial Rate of Return = 22Z
(computed over 25 years)
Net cash inflows
Loan                       P                 4,800  4,800  2,400    -    -    -          -       -       -       -      -       -               -
Net operating revenues   P                       -       -       -    -    -    -  5,801  6,485  7,188  7,188  7,761  8,335  8,335  8,816  7,188  7,188
Total                 P                4.800  4.800  2,400    -    -    -  5,801  6.485  7,188  7,188  7,761  8,335  8.335  8,816  7,188  7,188                   "
Net cash outflows
Investment                 P                 4,988  5,068  2,574   40    -    -          -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -
Debt service /b            P                     -       -       -    -    -    -        -  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323             -      -
Total                 P                4,988  5,068  2,574   40    -    -           -  5.323  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323  5,323            -       -
Net farm cash flow           P                  (188)  (268)  (174) (40)  -    -   5,801  1,162  1,865  1,865  2,438  3,012  3,012  3,493  7,188  7,188
/a  Assumes family labor contribution of 10% of labor input during tree farm establishment and up to 300 man-days/year for maintenance
and harvesting.
/b  Investment compounded at 12% p.a.                                                                                                                                   1'1
m DX



ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Development: Technical Details and Cost Estimates
Contents
Page No.
A. AFFORESTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Surveying . .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
Nursery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .      2
Seed Supply ...  .        .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Seedlings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Site Preparation  . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . .   3
Transport of Seedlings and Planting . . . . . . . . .   3
Fertilizer Application  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Replanting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   4
B. MAINTENANCE AND FIRE PROTECTION . . . . . . . . . . .   4
WSeeding  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Pruning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Fire Breaks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Fire Control  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Pests and Diseases   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   5
C. ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE . . . . . . . . . .   5
General  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  5
Existing Roads  . . . . . . . . .     .         . .   6
Road Density and Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Road Construction Specifications  . . . . . . . . . .   6
Road Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Labor Inputs and Costs per km . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
D.  BUILDINGS AND HOUSING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
E.  VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
F. ORGANIZATION, TRAINING, AND RESEARCH  . . . . . . . .   8
Subproject Organization  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  . .     .   8
Staffing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Relations with Local Population and Permit/Lease
Holders  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Development Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10



-2-
Page No.
G.  PROJECT YIELDS, PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL RETURNS . . .   10
Species Selection  .................  .   10
Rotation and Yield .................  .   10
Pulpwood Properties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Production  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
Pulpwood Harvesting  ..............  ..  .   11
Financial Returns  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Table 1: Physical Schedule for Plantation Development
Table  2:  Planting Schedule (net plantable area)
Table  3:  Labor Requirements for Plantation Development
Table  4:  Operating Costs for Plantation Establishment
and Maintenance
Table  5:  Road Construction, Maintenance Works and Costs
Table  6:  Buildings and Housing Requirements
Table  7:  Vehicle and Heavy Equipment Requirements
Table  8:  Staff Requirements for Plantation Development
Table  9:  Total Subproject Cost of Plantation Development
Table 10:  Projected Financial Returns from Plantation Develop-
ment in Abra
Attachment 1:  Project Area
Attachment 2:  Species and Cultural Trials
Attachment 3:  Organization Chart of the BFD Plantation Development
Project
Attachment 4:  Draft Terms of Reference for Plantation Specialists
A. Long Term Specialist (3 years)
B. Short Term Consultant (6 weeks)
Attachment 5: Projected Implementation Schedule of Industrial
Plantation Development



ANNEX 4
Page 1
1.        This Annex describes the technical aspects of all physical works
to be carried out under the subproject. The works would include afforestation;
plantation maintenance and protection; the construction and maintenance of
access and plantation roads and tracks; the construction of housing and other
buildings; and species trials and technique development (Table 1).
A. Afforestation
2.        The plantation development methods needed for successful implementa-
tion of the subproject would generally require an improvement in nursery and
establishment techniques compared with those currently practiced at BFD's
reforestation projects nearby. The planting schedule is shown in Table 2, and
labor requirements in Table 3. Operating costs for plantation establishment
and maintenance are detailed in Table 4. Details of the subproject area are
presented in Attachment 1 and Map No. _
3.        Surveying.  The site survey would identify in detail areas suitable
for planting. Although the area for the development program has been selected,
it is still necessary to undertake a site classification so that the result of
pilot plantations and research may be extrapolated with confidence. The site
survey should include information from two main sources: maps and soil
samples.
4.        Topographic surveys of the project area, for the production of
base maps showing contours and the main features of roads and rivers, would
require checking with regard to areas of habitation, cultivation, amounts of
legal and unauthorized grazing, vegetative cover, and slopes in excess of 75%.
The planning of roads and firebreaks would be based on these maps and would
be followed by a detailed field survey. Maps at 1:50,000, which are available
for the area, have been blown up to 1:20,000 for part of the area; for future
mapping a scale of 1:10,000 is recommended.
5.        Subsequent to mapping, soil samples would be taken in the potential
planting areas. This work has started in Block A but would have to cover
Blocks B and C as well. The resulting soil classification maps would include
both chemical and physical soil factors, on which to base soil treatment and
species/provenance selection. Soil studies would include:
(a) Investigation of soil profile;
(b) analysis of various layers of the profile for porosity, and pH,
N, P, K, Ca, Mg, organic content and micro-nutrients, particularly
B; and
(c) description of vegetation, topography, and aspect.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        It is estimated that the required surveys will cost P 12/ha,
excluding the purchase of airphoto imagery of the selected planting areas.
7.        A reconnaissance topographic and boundary survey would be con-
ducted over the rest of the delineated planting area of some 33,000 ha.
In the areas deemed suitable for planting (an estimated 10-15,000 ha),
a low intensity soil survey would be carried out.
8.        Nursery.  The project would set up a nursery, as close as possible
to the main planting sites with the objective of keeping the maximum haul for
plants to less than 15 km. A site of 2.5 ha is required although only 0.5 ha
would be developed for the preliminary phase with expansion to a full 2.5 ha
nursery in year four at the beginning of the development phase. A possible area
with year-round water supply is located in the northwest corner of Block A
on the northern side of the Lingas River.
9.        For the first planting season, i.e. 1978, when only 200,000
seedlings would be needed, the existing nearby nurseries of Cellophil Resources
Corporation (at Modiit) and of BFD (at the Lagangilang Forestry Station) could
be used.
10.       A small irrigation system, including pump/motor, tubing, sprinkler,
would be installed in year one to service the initial 0.5 ha nursery and a
larger system over the additional 2 ha in year four. Equipment/supply store,
soil shed, and workshed buildings would also be constructed in two phases. The
nursery would be equipped with a refrigerator for seed storage and seed testing
equipment.
11.       Seed Supply.  Except for some isolated trials, a total of several
hundred hectares only of P. caribaea is growing in the Philippines. This is
in the PICOP, Mindanao concession, where it has been planted over the past
eight years. However, these stands have not yet produced seed - probably due
to the evenly distributed rainfall year-round - and all seed would have to be
imported. On the assumption that P. caribaea has 50,000 seeds/kg and 50%
germination is assured, 1 kg of seed will contain sufficient viable seeds to
plant some 12 ha at spacing of 2.5 x 2.5 m./l
12.       Seed would have to be bought well ahead of date of requirement,
and stored at 2-40 C, and at above 6% moisture content. For the first three
years, particularly, only top seed quality should be purchased. A cost as
high as US$330/kg (= P 2,400/kg) has been assumed for this purpose.
13.       Seedlings.  Timely sowing of seeds in August/September/October allows
an eight-to-nine month effective nursery season to raise healthy, vigorous,
20-30 cm high potted seedlings. Planting would be in late May, June and July
of the following year, i.e., corresponding to the first half of the wet season.
/1 Including 25% for culls, losses and replants.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Later, once nursery and planting techniques are fully developed, the nursery
period could be reduced to six months. The standard pot should be 10 x 15 cm,
lay flat, in black polyethylene with drainage holes. 100,000 pots will
require 50 cu m of pot soil and sand. A good soil mix for potting is most
important. It should contain at least 50% topsoil of good texture. Care
should be given to admixing sufficient pine-mycorrhizal soil. Nursery practice
would follow standard procedures as defined in existing manuals for the
Philippines./l
14.       Seedling production is estimated to require initially about 13 man-
days per 1,000 transplants. This would gradually decrease to 8 man-days by
year five. Production cost per seedling is estimated at P 0.25 in the develop-
ment phase and P 0.15 from year four onward. One-third of the production cost
would be for materials and two-thirds for labor.
15.       Site Preparation.  Planting would be confined to grassland only,
so there would generally be no clearing of any remaining native forest.
This will be retained for protective cover. Planting areas would be control
burnt around January to reduce grass. Planting base lines would be laid ouit
and planting spots hoed during March/April/May at 2.5 m intervals. Spots of
0.5 m radius would be thoroughly cultivated to 15-20 cm depth and all grass,
roots and rhizomes removed. On slopes over 50%, the area of the cultivation
may have to be reduced. An estimated 13 man-days are required for preparing
the 1,600 planting spots. In the initial three years, planting areas would
be fenced against cattle.
16.       Transport of Seedlings and Planting.  Seedlings would be transported
first by truck and then by a cross-country vehicle as close to the planting
site as possible. Carrying of the seedlings on foot would be reduced to a
minimum as would total time of transport. The vehicle tracks into planting
areas would usually be on the ridges and would also serve as firebreaks.
This track system would ensure that manual loads would usually be carried
downhill. The spacing is 2.5 x 2.5 m, or 1,600 seedlings per ha. If high
survival figures are recorded, it might be possible to extend the spacing
to 2.7 or 3 m later on. Labor input per ha is estimated at 2 man-days for
manual seedling transport and distribution, and 7 man-days for planting.
Once planted, the seedlings need at least two months of rainy season for safe
initial establishment. This confines the effective planting period to about
two months from end-May to end-July.
17.       Fertilizer Application.  Toward the end of the rainy season 60 g/
tree of balance NPK granular fertilizer and up to 25 g/tree of sodium borate
should be added in one application. The fertilizer should be applied at the
time of a weeding and should be worked into the soil 15-20 cm from the base of
the seedling. Five man-days per ha are required for this operation. Fertilizer
cost:
/1 "Manual of Reforestation and Erosion Control for the Philippines," 1975,
German Agency for Technical Cooperation. "Nursery Handbook," 1972,
FAO/UNDP (T. Wormald).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
NPK, 100 kg/ha @ P 70/50 kg sack
Sodium borate, 4 kg/ha @ P 105/50 kg sack.
Fertilizer application should be under constant review and adjusted
according to results from field trials (see Attachment 2).
18.       Replanting.  It is expected that failures would be replaced over
10% of the area, scattered failures being ignored. Seedlings for replanting
should be larger than those originally planted. The operation should be
carried out before September of the planting season or in early June of the
following season. Four man-days/hectare have been assumed for replanting,
including seedling distribution.
B. Maintenance and Fire Protection
19.       Weeding.  Tropical pines have a slower height and crown develop-
ment than fast-growing tropical hardwoods, and therefore are likely to
require periodic weedings well into the third year until the trees can
compete with the grass. Cutting of the weeds is not sufficient. The
planting spot should be thoroughly cultivated with a hoe, without damaging
the seedling. The weeding cycle should commence one month after planting and
continue initially at five-to-six week intervals to make sure that weed com-
petition is minimal. Grass removal can be used as a mulch on the cultivated
spot to conserve moisture and reduce soil wash out. Estimated number of
weedings and labor inputs are:
Man-days/ha per weeding
First Year:  4-5 weedings               13
Second Year:  2 weedings                10
Third Year:  1-2 weedings               10
20.       Pruning.  Pruning is not necessary in a short rotation pulpwood
plantation. However, a pruning to 2.5 m, also called brashing, is pre-
scribed when the trees reach 8 m height (possibly in year 7 or 8, i.e., in
the post-Project period). This operation is intended to reduce fire hazards
in that it provides ready access into the stands in case of fire and removes
dry lower branches which would possibly assist a ground fire to develop into
a crown fire. An estimated five man-days/ha are needed for this step. Later,
if experience shows that the fire protection scheme works efficiently,
brashing can be confined to a depth of 10 m on either side of roads, tracks,
and firebreaks.
21.       Firebreaks.  Annual or periodic burning by local inhabitants is
a feature of the project grasslands. To avoid loss of plantations from
fire requires that fire hazard be a major consideration from the beginning
of the project. A net of primary and secondary firebreaks would be estab-
lished, taking advantage of natural boundaries, such as native forest,



ANNEX 4
Page 5
cultivated land, rivers, and rock areas. Where the plantation borders
onto grassland, controlled boundary buring early in the dry season is pre-
scribed on the grass area along a belt 100-400 m wide. Along this belt,
a 3 m wide strip, serving also as a road or track, would be cleared
adjacent to the plantation and a 2 m wide strip on the opposite side.
Within the plantation, the system of roads and tracks would provide an
adequate firebreak network. An estimated 1.5 km of firebreak length
(3 m + 2 m = 5 m width) would be needed per sq km of plantations. Firebreak
construction and maintenance would be done manually, at 70 sq m and 250 sq m,
respectively, per man-day. On this basis, total labor input would be:
Man-days/km fireline
Fireline construction                      72
Fireline maintenance                       20
Control burning                            20
22.       Fire Control.  The rainfall pattern in Eastern Abra gives rise to
a fire hazard period of about five months from November/December to April.
Burning of grasslands, however, may also occur during dry spells outside
this period. A fire control system would, therefore, have to be kept on
the alert for at least 50% of the time during each year.
23.       Full provision for installing a fire detection and fighting
system would be included under the subproject. This includes two lookout
towers, radio communications, a trailer tank and motor pump unit, and an
adequate number of fire-fighting tools, including hand-pack pumps. The
lookouts would be manned continually whenever there is any fire hazard.
Fire-fighting crews would be recruited from normal staff and labor and
located at convenient call-out points (e.g., nurseries and workshops).
24.       Pests and Diseases.  There are no records of major pests attacking
the native Benguet Pine. However, a shoot borer (Ips) was reported damaging
this species in the Baguio area. Evidence of similar attacks on poor speci-
mens of this pine at low altitudes in the Abra area were noted. Shoot borers
were also noted in sickly speciments of P. caribaea. There would be a need
for vigilance and regular inspection of the plantation. One man-day per ha
and year has been costed in for this purpose.
C. Road Construction and Maintenance
25.       General.  The objective of the road program is to lay out a road
network during the plantation establishment phases which would be adequate
for planting and plantation maintenance, large parts of which could be later
upgraded for logging at moderate cost. A project survey team would deter-
mine the alignment of roads and tracks. Roads would be constructed one
year ahead of planting.
26.       There would be three categories of roads or tracks:  access
roads, which in part would be located outside the plantation blocks;



A&NEX 4
Page 6
plantation roads; and footpaths. Construction of new access roads and improve-
ment of existing access roads would be subcontracted to local road construction
firms. The project itself would handle the construction of plantation roads
and footpaths, maintenance of all roads/paths, planning of total road
network, and supervision of the contracted access roads works. Vehicles and
equipment would be provided under the project for this purpose (Table 7).
The road construction and maintenance schedule is shown in Table 1, while the
cost and distribution of these inputs by planting block is given in Table 5.
27.       Existing Roads.  Highway No. 6 cuts through the southern and eastern
parts of Block B, continuing in a southernly direction past Lagangilang Forestry
Station, close to the eastern corner of Block A. This highway section, an
estimated 12.5 km in length, although routinely maintained by the Department
of Barangay Roads and the Military, would need additional maintenance by the
project because of heavy use by it. An existing track runs about 1.3 km from
the projected nursery site to Highway 6, but it would need to be reconstructed
in year one. To achieve access to Block C, the 3.5 km-long, spur road leading
to the North from Highway 6, at the eastern boundary of Block B, would be
upgraded in year four and extended over 1.3 km to the Malanas River, including
construction of a Baelly bridge across the river.
28.       Road Density and Layout.
Access roads (inside plantations)        5 m/ha of gross planting area /1
Plantation roads                        10 m/ha of net planting area
Footpaths in trial and pilot
plantations                         100 m/ha of net planting area
Footpaths in industrial planta-
tions                                50 m/ha of net planting area
Access roads would be aligned in such a way that uphill logging from the
plantations would not exceed 600 m in distance, whereas plantation road
alignment would be chosen so that a major part of them could later be
converted into forwarder or skid tracks. Some of the plantation roads would
be dead-end roads. The footpath network in the trial and pilot plantations
would consist of contour trails with diagonal connecting trials and those in
the industrial plantations of contour trials only.
29.       Road Construction Specifications.
Total   Traffic    Gradient Maximum    Gradient
Type of Road           Width    Width    Favorable  Adverse   Minimum
Access roads inside   4.5 m   3.5 m           12%        8%        2%
plantations
Plantation roads       3.0 m   2.5 m          12%        8%        2%
Footpaths              0.5 m                  15%       15%        -
/1 1 ha net = approximately 1.3 ha gross.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
The roads would be constructed as one-way traffic lanes with turn-outs for
meeting traffic. On access roads, bridges and culverts would be of permanent
type. Plantation roads would have temporary A-frame culverts. Both access
roads and plantation roads woud be surfaced with a river gravel seal readily
available from within the area.
30.       Road construction under the project would be confined to the dry
season when casual labor is not required for plantation establishment work.
Plantation roads would be built using labor-intensive methods.
31.       Road Maintenance.  All existing and new roads would be graded
at least once annually. Other maintenance work would include culvert and
drain clearing (manual), road clearing after land slides, regravelling where
necessary, and culvert and bridge upkeep.
32.       Labor Inputs and Costs per Km.  Required labor for the road
construction program to be executed by the project and for road maintenance
would be:
Construction    Maintenance
-- --- man-days/km
Existing Highway No. 6                                55
Access roads                         /a               45
Plantation roads                   1,900              55
Footpaths                             65               5
/a To be subcontracted.
Total costs are estimated as follows:
Construction Improvement Maintenance
------- - ----- Pesos/km…
Existing Highway No. 6              -              -            5,000 /b
Access roads                      75,000 /a      20,000 /a      2,500
Plantation roads                  40,000           -            3,000
Footpaths                          1,000           -               80
/a  To be subcontracted.
/b  Incremental maintenance cost.
D.  Buildings and Housing
33.       The project would provide housing and basic furniture for professional
and technical staff as well as for those specialized and skilled personnel re-
cruited from outside commuting distance of project headquarters. Altogether,
58 housing units would be constructed. In addition, provision would be made



ANNEX 4
Page 8
for the construction and furnishing of office space, vehicle-sheds, repair shops
and stores. The number, type and standard of units, together with costs, are
shown in Table 6.
34.       Unskilled labor, both permanently employed and casual, would be
recruited from nearby villages. However, after year three when the project
builds up in size, unskilled labor is likely to come also from more distant
areas, and provision should be made by project management to set aside suitable
lots where these people could settle as permanent workers for the plantation
scheme.
E. Vehicles and Equipment
35.       The subproject would require investment in vehicles and equipment
which would be used for afforestation, road construction, maintenance, and
administration. Details of requirements and costs are given in Tables 7
and 9.
F. Organization, Training, and Research
36.       Subproject Organization.  Since the project is intended not only
to initiate pine plantation development in Abra, but to establish a fairly
replicable technology for use throughout the country, the project organization
was formulated along the lines followed by BFD in other "Special Project
Areas," i.e., where BFD has concentrated its reforestation efforts. Under the
project, therefore, the Regional Director (of Region I) would assume full
responsibility for the project and report to the Director of BFD on its
progress. Day-to-day supervision of the project, however, would be under the
direction of a Project Manager, who would live on site and be authorized to
procure supplies and equipment as authorized under the annual budget, and in
accordance with BFD and Bank requirements.
37.       To assist the Regional Director and to involve headquarter staff
in project planning and implementation, a Steering Committee would be formed
to annually approve the work program for the project, subject to confirmation
by the Director of BFD, and to meet not less than once every six months to
review progress of the project. The Steering Committee would comprise Divi-
sion Heads of all concerned BFD headquarters staff responsible for national
program planning. Ex-officio members of the Steering Committee would be rep-
resentatives from the Forestry Research Institute and Cellophil, the company
whose pulp mill is to be built adjacent to the project plantation area and the
District Forester of the area affected (District 4). In view of the need to
plan the nursery site and the first year's planting, it would be essential
that the Project Manager be appointed and on site by the beginning of the
project. Therefore, the Project Manager's appointment would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
38.       Project headquarters would be set up adjacent to the first phase
planting areas and close to national Highway No. 6. It would have radio
communication with BFD headquarters in Quezon City. The project would be
organized as shown in Attachment 3. There would be three work units: the
Administration and Supervision Unit, headed by the Project Manager; the Nursery



ANNEX 4
Page 9
and Plantation Unit, headed by a forester with considerable silvicultural and
managerial experience, who would also act as Deputy Project Manager; and the
Roads Unit, headed by Forest Engineer or a Roads/Mechanical Engineer.
39.       The Project Manager's duties would consist of:
(a) overall responsibility for the physical execution and
administration of the project;
(b) improvement of silvicultural techniques; and
(c) preparation and execution of budget and cost control data.
The Deputy Project Manager would be a specialist (consultant) in plantation
development and nursery techniques. This specialist should also have wide
experience in tropical pine plantation development. His recruitment would
be subject to approval by the Bank, and funds would be provided under the
project for three years' service. During that time, the specialist would
assist the Project Manager in implementing the project and he would also
be responsible for training BFD staff. Draft terms of reference for the
specialist are given in Attachment 4.
40.       Staffing.  Staff requirements and build-up over time is shown
in Table 8, together with the costs involved. The initial staff of about
30 persons would increase to over 60 by the fifth year of the project. At
full operation, i.e., at an annual planting pace of 2,000 ha, the project
would employ five professionals, seven technicians, and about fifty skilled
laborers or labor for specialized jobs. All permanent staff, including
the Project Manager, would take up residence at project headquarters in
the houses provided by the project for this purpose, or within commuting
distance to it.
41.       Relations with Local Population and Permit/Lease Holders.  A
sociologist would be employed by the project to form a team to assist in
informing local people as to the alternative employment opportunities made
available by the project, or otherwise assisting them in adjusting to the
forest development to take place in their areas. He would particularly
concentrate on obtaining the cooperation of cattle owners practicing un-
authorized grazing in potential planting areas, and on working out arrange-
ments, in the longer term, with grazing permit and lease holders to reduce
legal grazing, bearing in mind the project's continuation after year five.
42.       Training.  BFD's present reforestation activity is not geared
to the creation of large-scale industrial plantations. In addition, the
species to be planted under the project, Pinus caribaea, is an exotic tree
with which BFD has little experience. Given these facts, training of
national project staff in nursery techniques and plantation establishment
and maintenance practices would be a necessary component of the project.
Training would mainly be done on-site, initially under the supervision of
the Nursery and Plantations Specialist and later, as proficiency builds up,
under the guidance of the more experienced project personnel in responsible



ANNEX 4
Page 10
positions. Provision for visits by key personnel to tropical pine planta-
tions in countries with similar climate and environments (Queensland,
Australia; Fiji; Papua New Guinea; etc.) would be included (Table 9).
The Nursery and Plantation Specialist would be required to draw up the
training program.
43.       Development Research.  The main objective during the project's
preliminary phase is to develop the best techniques for establishing Pinus
caribaea stands and to select the right provenance(s) of this species for the
area. To arrive at the answers within a minimum of time, a composite program
of pilot plantations, cultural and species trials, and nursery technique tests
has been devised, and is detailed in Attachment 2. The trials should be on
good plantable sites and require some 20 ha per annum for the preliminary
phase. The results should be fully assessed and evaluated at year 3, and in
the light of this evaluation, the trial scheme may continue at the same or a
reduced scale to the end of the project period.
44.       The development research program would in practice fall under
the responsibility of the head of the Nursery and Plantation Unit. It is
assumed that pilot plantations could be established and nursery techniques
tested at no substantial incremental cost over and above normal operational
costs. However, additional provision would be included for the extra work and
supplies required for the cultural and species trials.
G. Proiect Yields, Production and Financial Returns
45.       Species Selection.  The area that has been selected by BFD for
reforestation with long-fiber species ranges in elevation from 300-900 m.
Except for the highest sites, this elevation is too low for planting the
main indigenous pine, Pinus kesiya (Benguet pine). The other native pine,
Pinus merkusii (Mindoro pine), would probably grow reasonably well in the
area, but it has a relatively low yield (less than 10 cu m/ha/yr) and produces
seed irregularly. Also, large quantities of seed are not readily available,
neither domestically nor from abroad. BFD, therefore, intends using a fast-
growing exotic pine in the project area and Pinus caribaea would seem the most
likely to adapt well to the particular climatic, edaphic and topograhic
conditions. Cellophil Resources Corporation, which would probably be the
ultimate user of most of the wood, has conducted preliminary investigations
on the species and provisionally arrived at the same conclusion. However, the
initial commitment to Pinus caribaea va. hondurensis does not exclude the
possible future use of other pine species, other varieties of Caribbean pine
or different strains of the same variety, for which planting trials are planned.
46.       Rotation and Yield.  The few trials conducted so far with P. caribaea
in Northern Luzon in conditions similar to those in Abra are insufficient to
derive any growth predictions. Therefore, yield projections must for the time
being be based on information from plantations in similar environments abroad.
Such cases are Fiji and Brazil, where mean annual growth rates of 15-20 cu m/ha
are reported for 14-16 year rotations on medium soils. The corresponding
total yield at clear felling would average 260 cu m/ha./l For the plantations
/1 Harvestable stem wood excluding bark.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
in Abra, the more conservative figure of 210 cu m/ha at the end of anticipated
15-year pulpwood rotation is used in the calculations, corresponding to a
mean annual increment of 14 cu m/ha.
47.       Pulpwood Properties.  The specific gravity of plantation-grown
Caribbean pine is around 0.4, less than wood from natural stands of Benguet
pine. The approximate consumption of pulpwood per ton (10% moisture content)
of unbleached pulp is about 5 cu m (solid) or slightly above. Mature planta-
tion wood from P. caribaea produces a pulp which, although inferior to pulp
from certain other tropical pines, is suitable for many purposes, e.g., as
kraft pulp for manufacture of packaging papers and paper boards.
48.       Production.  The project should be seen not as an isolated develop-
ment of 3,000 ha but as the first phase of a large, continuous industrial plan-
tation scheme which would aim at a minimum of 15,000 ha of low-to-medium
elevation pine stands within the project area. Possibly double that area
would be planted in the longer term future given the very large potential
forest area in Abra. The possible longer-term phasing of the plantation
development is presented in Attachment 5.
49.       At a 15-year rotation, an average net volume of 200 cu m/ha /1 would
be harvested at clear felling, not counting thinnings, the desirability of
which could be proven only after the trees are 8-10 years old. In a plantation
of 15,000 ha, 1,000 ha would be felled annually on a sustained basis, yielding
some 200,000 cu m. The corresponding pulp yield (unbleached, 10% moisture)
would be about 40,000 ton per annum. Clear felling would start with minor
volumes in 1993 and at full volume around 1996/97. A 30,000 ha plantation
would make possible twice the pulpwood and pulp production within the same
span of time as in the 15,000 ha case.
50.       Pulpwood Harvesting.  For the derivation of an expected cost de-
livered at the pulp mill at Tayum, the anticipated harvesting methods and
costs - at today's prices - have to be estimated.
51.       After the upgrading of the access roads and a large part of the plan-
tation roads for harvesting purposes, mean road density per ha would be about
12 m/ha, corresponding to an average extraction distance of 200 m within the
plantation blocks. An estimated 25-30% of the area would be suitable for extrac-
tion with wheel skidders and 70-75%, representing the steeper sites, with cable
cranes. Pulpwood hauling along the mountainous roads would be done best by
small logging trucks of 10-ton capacity (12-13 cu m) because of the terrain and
limitations on forest roads. Practically all hauling would be directly from the
forest to the mill as the maximum distance would not exceed 50 km, the average
haul being about 35 km only. Based on these assumptions the average harvesting
cost comes to P 60/cu m as follows:
/1 Assuming a logging loss of 5%.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
P/solid cu m u.b.
Clear felling/debarking                          5
Skidding/yarding                                13
Hauling (av. 35 km)                             25
Roads upgrading                                  4
Roads maintenance                                0.5
Supervision/overheads                            7
Subtotal                                     54.5
Contingencies                                 5.5
Total                                        60.0 (US$8.10)
This is only one third of the logging cost quoted by CRC for logging natural
pine from their concession in high altitude, extremely difficult terrain, and
farther away.
52.       Financial Returns.  Total project costs are summarized in Table 9.
Financial returns have been calculated assuming that the 2,000 ha per year
planting target, once achieved in year 5, will be maintained over the full
15-year rotation period, and continued in perpetuity in the form of replanting
after clear felling. The calculation, which at the same time derives the
stumpage for the pulpwood, is summarized in Table 10. No harvests from thin-
nings have been taken into consideration although thinning could well be
feasible on the better growing sites and would enable some early revenues.
53.       Since the plantation development project would be an industrial
scale trial scheme with considerable initial investments, average establishment
and maintenance costs per hectare would be high during the first 5-year period,
estimated at slightly above $1,000. In the subsequent period, however, this
cost would go down to about $650/ha and it would settle just above the $500
level when the harvesting and replanting period is reached.
54.       Table 10 shows that at a stumpage price of P 120 (US$16.20) all invest-
ments and operation costs could be recovered at an interest rate of about 9%.
Adding harvesting cost of P 60/cu m results in a total cost delivered at the
pulp mill of P 180 (US24.30). This is in line with the cost CRC is willing to
incur for harvesting alone, i.e. excluding a stumpage, for the natural pine
pulpwood. Approximately $25 at mill would also compare favorably with current
world selling prices for long-fiber pulpwood (e.g. $30-35/cu m free mill in
Scandinavia and $15-20 in Canada). A reduction of the stumpage to P 100/cu m,
bringing down the delivered cost to P 160 (US$21.60), would also be justified
in view of the satisfactory economic rate of return of the BFD plantations
(Annex 8).



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLNOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Physical Schedule for Plantation Development
Year of development
Unit         -1    1               2            3              4            5           Total
_.  Detailed surveys                                              400            1,000         1,600         2,000         2,000         7,000
2. Nursery
Seeds                                     kg           10   10               20            50            170           170 /a        430
Seedling production                       mln pcs           0.2             0.2           0.4            1.2           4.0           6.0
Plantation establishment
Site preparacion                          ha                100             100           200           610         2,010          3,020
Fencing                                   ha                100             100           100             10            10           420
Planting                                  ha                100             100           200            610         2,010         3,020
Weeding, lst year                         ha                100             100           200            610         2,010         3,020
Weeding, 2nd year                         ha                  -             100           100            200           610         1,010
Weeding, 3rd year                         ha                  -               -           100            100           200           400
Fertilizing                               ha                100             100           200           610          2,010         3,020
4. Plantation maintenance
Fire control                              ha                100             200           400         1,010         3,020          4,730
Pest and disease control                  ha                100             200           400         1,010         3,020          4,730
S. Firebreaks
Formation                                 km  15 m/ha       1.5             1.5             3              9            30            45
Haintenance                                                   -             1.5              3             6            15          25.5
6. Research
Species/provenance trials
- Establishment                         ha                 20              20            20            10             10            80
- Maintenance                           ha                  -              20            40            60             70           190
Roads
Eaisting Highway 6, light maintenance  km                  12.0 (2.5) A   12.0 (2.5)   12.0 (2.5)   12.0 (2.5)   12.0 (2.5)   60.0 (12.5)
Access roads:  Upgrading/improvement   km                   1.5 (0.5) /b      -              -           3.5 (2.5)   n.a.            5.0 (3)
New construction          km               2.5              2.5           5.0          11.5 (1.5)   13.0 .Lc        34.5 (1.5)
Maintenance               km                  -             4.0 (0.5)    6.5 (0.5)   11.5 (0.5)   26.5 (4.5)   48.5 (6.0)
Plantation roads:  New construction    km                   2.5             2.5           7.0          20.0           20.0 jc       52.0
Maintenance          km                  -             2.5            5.0          12.0          32.0          51.5
Footpaths:  New formation                 km               20.0            20.0          30.0         100.0          100.0 /c      270.0
.aintenance                  km                  -            20.0          40.0          70.0          170.0         300.0
S. Buildings and Housing                       units               31                5            18             5             3            61
9. Trials and Research /d
Establishment                            ha                 20              20            20             10            10            80
Maintenance                              ha                  -              20            40             60            70           190
/a  For planting in year 6.
lb  Figures in parentheses denote roads outside the plantation blocks.
/c  In blocks for planting in year 6.
ld  Areas already included in general plantation establishment and maintenance figures, but trial areas require special treatment.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Schedule (net planted area)
Block A Block B Block C Total Cumulative
Available net planting areas           270     2,380      850    3,500
Annual planting areas
1978     Pilot plantations           80          -        -        80      80
Trials                      20          -       -        20       20
Subtotal                100          -        -       100     100
1979     Pilot plantations           80          -        -        80     160
Trials                      20          -       -        20       40
Subtotal                100          -        -       100     200
1980     Pilot plantations            -        180        -      180      340
Trials                      20          -       -        20       60
Subtotal                 20        180        -       200     400
1981     Industrial plantations       -        600        -       600     940 /a
Trials                      10          -       -        10       70
Subtotal                 10        600        -       610   1,010
1982     Industrial plantations       -      1,600      400    2,000   2,940 /a
Trials                      10          -       -        10       80
Subtotal                  10     1,600      400    2,010   3,020
1978-82  Pilot plantations          160        180        -      340
Industrial plantations       -     2,200      400    2,600
Trials                      80          -       -        80
Total                    240     2,380      400    3,020
Balance = Reserve area                  30 /b       -     450 /c   480
/a Industrial trial plantations.
/b For continuation or expansion of trials.
/c For planting in 1983.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Labor Requirements for Plantation Development
(Man-days)
Year of development
Operation                             1          2          3          4          5
Surveys                               200        500        800       1,000      1,000
Nursery                             2,800      2,400      4,000      10,800     32,000
Site preparation                    1,800      1,800      3,600     10,980      36,180
Fencing                               150        150        180          30          30
Planting                            1,000      1,000      2,000       6,100     20,100
Replanting                            400        400        800       2,440      8,040
Fertilizing                           500        500      1,000      3,050      10,050
Subtotal: nursery &
plantation establishment       6,850     6,750    12,380       34,400    107,400
Weeding                             5,200      7,200    14,400      37,720    120,720
Fire control                          490        550        750      1,770       4,060
Pest and disease control              100        200        400      1,000       3,000
Additional labor for trial
planting                            200        300        400        400         450
Subtotal: nursery and
plantation establishment
and maintenance               12,840    15,000    28,330       75,290    235,630
Access roads maintenance                -        180        290        520       1,190
Plantation roads construction       4,750      4,750    13,300      38,000      38,000
Plantation roads maintenance            -        140        270        660         420
Footpaths formation                 1,300      1,300      1,950      6,500       6,500
Footpaths maintenance                   -        100        200        350         850
Highway section maintenance           660        660        660        660         660
Subtotal:  roads               6,710     7,130    16,670       46,690     47,620
Total labor (man-days)        19,550    22,130    45,000    121,980    283,250
(man-years)          78        89        180         488      1,133



ANNEX 4
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Operating Costs for Plantation Establishment and Maintenance /a
Costs (P '000) per year
1      2       3       4         5         6
Establishment
Land surveys                         4.8   12.0   19.2      24.0      24.0      84.0
Site preparation                   23.4   23.4   46.8    142.7    470.3    706.6
Fencing                              2.0    2.0    2.3       0.4       0.4       7.1
Seedlings transport & planting   13.0   13.0   26.0         79.3    261.3    392.6
Replanting                           5.2    5.2   10.4      31.7    104.5    157.0
Fertilizing                        31.9   31.9   63.8    194.5    641.2    963.3
Subtotal                      80.3   87.5  168.5    472.6  1,501.7  2,310.6
Maintenance
Weeding                            67.6   93.6  187.2    490.4  1,569.4  2,408.2
Fire control                         6.4    7.2    9.9      23.1      52.7      99.3
Pest & disease control              2.3    4.6    8.2       17.0      45.0      77.1
Subtotal                      76.3  105.4  205.3    530.5  1,667.1  2,584.6
Additional cost for
planting trials                     4.4    5.8    7.0        5.2       5.9      28.3
Total                        161.0  198.7  380.8  1,008.3  3,174.7  4,923.5
/a Excluding nursery operating costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Road Construction, Maintenance Works and Costs
Physical Inputs
Other   Total        Total
Block A  Block B  Block C  areas  distance         costs
(kn)      (P'000)
1. Existing highway No. 6, incremental
maintenance of 12.5 km long section                   50.0              lO.0/a   60.0       300.0
Access roads outside plantation blocks
Upgrading/improvement                        -         -         -       3.0      3.0
New construction                             -         -         -       1.5      1.5
Maintenance, cumulative length               -         -         -       6.0       6.0
Access roads inside plantation blocks
Upgrading/improvement                        -         2.0       -        -       2.0
New construction                             3.0      13.0       4.0   13.0 /b  33.0
Maintenance, cumulative length              11.5      27.0       4.0    -        42.5
2.  Access roads total                                                                           2,709.0
Upgrading/improvement                        -         2.0       -       3.0      5.0       100.0 /c
New construction                             3.0      13.0       4.0   14.5      34.5    2,587.5 /c
Maintenance, cumulative length              11.5      27.0       4.0    6.0      48.5       121.5
3.  Plantation roads                                                                            2,234.5
New construction                             2.5      20.5       9.0   20.0 /b  52.0    2,080.0
Maintenance, cumulative length              10.0      32.5       9.0    -        51.5       154.5
4.  Footpaths                                                                                      294.0
Formation                                   25       110        35    100 /b   270          270.0
Maintenance, cumulative length              95       170        35       -      300          24.0
5. Special structure: Buelly bridge
across Malanas River                                                            n.a.         70.0 /c /d
Total                                                                           5,537.5
/a Section between Block B and A.
/b For planting in 1st post-project year.
/c To be subcontracted.
/d For access to Block C.



ANNEX 4
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Buildings and Housing Requirements
Approx.
floor                                      Total
area    No. of units each year  Total    cost
(sq m)    1    2    3    4    5   no.   (P'000)
Management and administration unit
Office including guest rooms & store    150         1    -    -    -    -    1          100
Housing:  Manager's residence               90      1    -    -    -    -    1           80
Other professionals              80      -    1    -    -    -    1           70
Technicians                      60      1    -    -    -    -    1           40
Specialists                      40      5    -    -    1    1    7          140
Furniture                                                                               175
Subtotal                                      8    1    -    1    1   11          605
Nursery and plantation unit
Housing:  Professionals                     80      1    -    I    -    -    2          140
Technicians                      60      1    1    1    1    -    4          160
Specialists                      40      7    1    5    2    2   17          340
Furniture                                                                               280
Subtotal                                      9    2    7    3    2   23          920
Roads unit
Vehicle sheds                              120      1    -    -    -    -    1           30
80     -    1    -    -    -    1           20
Repair shop and store                       60      1    -    -    -    -    1           30
Housing:  Professionals                     80      1    -    -    -    -    1           70
Technicians                      60      2    -    -    -    -    2           80
Specialists                      40      4    1    6    -    -   11          220
Skilled laborers                 40      5    1    4    1    -   11          220
Furniture                                                                               285
Subtotal                                     14    2   11    1    -   28          955
All units
Nonhousing                                          3    -    1    -    -    4          180
Housing                                            28    5   17    5    3   58        1,560
Furniture                                                                               740
Total                                        31    5   18    5    3   62        2,480



ANNEX 4
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Vehicle and Heavy Equipment Requirements
Estimated
No. of                Total   total
units required Total capital O&M
1  2  3  4   5   No.    cost    cost
___(P000) -
Management & administration unit
4 x 4 LWB station wagon                      1                   1         59      75
4 x 2 3/4-ton pick-up                        1                   1         35      48
4 x 2 5-ton general transport truck          1                   1        110    100
Total                                   3                   3       204    223
Nursery & plantation unit
4 x 4 LWB station wagon                      1      1            2        118    120
4 x 2 3/4-ton pick-up                        1         1         2         70      65
4 x 2 5-ton general transport truck          1      1            1        110      62
4 x 4 1-1/2 ton special cross-country
vehicle w. 2-ton single axle trailer   1             1         2        236    159
Motorcycles                                  1      2  1         3         50      27
Total                                  5      4  3        12        608    451
Road unit
4 x 4 LWB pick-up                            2                   2         90    210
4 x 2 3/4-ton pick-up                           1                1         35     42
4 x 2 5-ton general transport truck                1             1        110     /a
4 x 4 material carrying cross-country
vehicle w. trailer                               1             1       205      /a
Traxcavator, wheel-type, 100 hp,
1-3/4 cu m bucket                               1            1        550      /a
Motor grader 100 hp                          1                   1        407      /a
Compressor                                          1            1       111       8
Total                                  3  1  4             8      1,508    260
All units
4 x 4 LWB station wagon                      2     1             3       177    195
4 x 4 LWB pick-up                            2                   2        90    210
4 x 2 3/4-ton pick-up                        2  1      1        4        140    155
4 x 2 5-ton general transport truck          1     2             3       330    162
4 x 4 1-1/2 ton special cross-country                           2
vehicle w. trailer                         1         1        1        286    186
4 x 4 material carrying cross-country
vehicle w. trailer                               1            1        205      /a
Traxcavator, wheel-type, 100 hp,
1-3/4 cu m bucket                                1            1        550      /a
Motor grader 100 hp                          1                   1       407      /a
Compressor                                         1            1        111      /a
Motorcycles                                  1     2             3        24       8
Total                                 10  1  8  2         21      2,320    934
/a Included in road construction & maintenance costs.



ANNEX 4
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
SMALLPOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Staff Requirements for Plantation Development
Requirements        Cumulative   Unit
by years             total      cost                Costs (P 000) by years
Post description                                                   Unit   1   2   3   4   5   (year 5)    (P/yr)            1       2       3       4        5     Total
(a)  Management and administration unit
Project manager                                            No.    1   1   1   1   1             1       14,400    14.4   14.4   14.4    14.4   14.4           72.0
Accountant                                                          I   1   1   1   1           1        6,000      6.0     6.0     6.0     6.0     6.0       30.0
Clerk                                                       "      I   I   1   2   3            3        5,400     5.4      5.4     5.4    10.8   16.2        43.2
Assistant accountant                                        "       1   1   1   1   1           1        4,800     4.8      4.8     4.8     4.8     4.8       24.0
Driver                                                      "      3   3   3   3   3            3        4,800    14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4            72.0
Public relations officer (grazing, social issues)                  -    1   1   1   1           1        7,200      -       7.2     7.2     7.2     7.2       28.8
Annual build-up                                            7   8   8   9  10          10                  45.0   52.2    52.2   57.6    63.0        270.0
Allowances (501)                                                                                                  22.5   26.1   26.1   28.8   31.5           135.0
Other expenditures                                                                                                 0.6      0.6     0.6     0.8     1.0        3.6
Unit total                                                                                                68.1   78.9   78.9   87.2   95.5    408.6
(b)  Nursery and plantation unit
Professional forester                                      No.    1   1   1   2   2            2         7,200     7.2      7.2     7.2   14.4   14.4        50.4
Forester (ranger)                                           "      1   2   3   4   4           4         6,000     6.0    12.0   18.0   24.0   24.0          84.0
Nursery foreman                                                    1   1   2   3   5           5         5,400      5.4     5.4   10.8   16.2   27.0          64.8
Driver                                                             3   3   5   7   7           7         4,800    14.4   14.4   24.0    33.6   33.6         120.0
Field foreman                                                      2   3   4   7  10          10         4,800     9.6   14.4    19.2    33.6   48.0        124.8
Forest guards                                                      1   1   2   2   3           3         4,800     4.8     4.8      9.6     9.6   14.4       43.2
Annual build-up                                            9  11  17  25  31          31                  47.4   58.2   88.8  131.4  161.4          487.2
Allowances                                                                                                        23.7   29.1   44.4   65.7   80.7          243.6
Other expenditures                                                                                                 0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6     0.8        3.2
Unit total                                                                                                71.7   87.9  133.8  197.7  242.9          734.0
(c) Roads unit
Unit manager (engineer or forest engineer)                 No.    1   1   1   1   1             1        7,200     7.2      7.2     7.2     7.2     7.2       36.0
Surveyor                                                          1   1   1   1   1            1        6,000     6.0   .6.0       6.0     6.0     6.0      30.0
Supervisor                                                         I   1   2   2   2           2         5,400     5.4     5.4   10.8   10.8   10.8          43.2
Survey workers                                                     3   4   5   6   6           6        4,800    14.4   19.2   24.0   28.8   28.8           115.2
Traxcavator operator                                               -   -   I   I   I            1        5,000      -        -      5.0     5.0     5.0      15.0
Grader operator                                             "      1   1   1   1   1            1        5,000     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      25.0
Compressor operator                                               I-   -   1 I   I              1        5,000      -       -       5.0     5.0     5.0      15.0
Rock driller                                                       -   -   2   2   2            2        4,800      -       -       9.6     9.6     9.6      28.8
Driver                                                      "      2   3   5   5   5           5         4,800     9.6   14.4   24.0   24.0   24.0           96.0
Master mechanic                                                     I   1   1   1   1           1        5,400     5.4     5.4      5.4     5.4     5.4      27.0
Assistant mechanic                                                  I   I   I   I   I           1        4,800     4.8     4.8      4.8     4.8     4.8      24.0
Store man                                                          -   -   I   I   I           1         4,800      -       -      4.8      4.8     4.8      14.4
Assistant to operator                                       "       I   1   2   2   2          2         4,800     4.8     4.8      9.6     9.6     9.6      38.4
Annual build-up                                           12  14  24  25  25          25                  62.6   72.2  121.2  126.0  126.0    508.0
Allowances                                                                                                        31.3   36.1   60.6   63.0   63.0          254.0
Other expenditures                                                                                                 0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.8       3.2
Unit total                                                                                               94.5  108.9  182.4  189.6  189.8          765.2
All units
Professional staff                                         No.    3   4   4   5   5            5
Technical staff                                                    4   5   6   7   7           7
Specialist staff                                                  16  18  29  36  43          43
Skilled staff                                               "      5   6  10  11  11          11
Annual build-up                                           28  33  49  59  66          66                155.0  182.6  262.2  315.0  350.4  1.265.2
Allowances                                                                                                        77.5   91.3  131.1  157.5  175.2          632.6
Other expenditures                                                                                                 1.8     1.8     1.8     2.0     2.6       10.0
Total                                                                                                   234.3  275.7  395.1  474.5  528.2  1,907.8



PHILIPPINES
SHALLOOLDER TREE 7A68515G AND FORESTHY FoJECT
Total Sub rolect Cost of Plantation ievOloent by 8FD
(000 p.ao..
_ noapeneot sod dmnttratloo unSt _Noracro and  ulnoittlon uo_  Hood. unft                                                                                                  All units
Year                                            Osar             _                         _E                                                                Yer
1     2     3       4       S     Total      1      2       3        4       5        Totl      1      2       3        4       5         Total       I                  3         4         5        Total
Development Costs
Nor-ery eatabinheeni            -     -      -       -      -         -    70.0      -       -     110.0        -      180.0     -          _      _         _      _                  70.0        -         -     110.0         -       IB0.0
Seed ..pply                     _                                          28.8   4h.0  120.0    400.0    408.0  1,012.8         -       -       -        -         -          -       28.0      46.0    120.0    408.0       408.0   1.012.0
Noraery oper-ttora              -     -      -       -      -         -    54.0   49.0   79.0    216.0    611.0  1,009.0         -       -       -        -         -          -       54.0      49.0      79.0    216.0      611.D   1,009.0
Plaotatloone oatablrio-
..nt and matntenance          -     -      -      -       -         -   161.0  198.7  380.0  1,008.3  3.174.7  4,923.5         -       -       -        -         -          -      Itl.0    198.7    380.8  1,008.3   3,174.7   4,923.5
Fire control                    -     _      _      _          _           38.0      -       -      20.0       8.0      66.0     -       -       -        _         _          _       3e.0        -         -      20.0        8.0       66.0
Vrilcler.                    204.0    -      -       -      -      204.0  245.0      -   185.0    178.0         -      608.0  497.0   35.0  976.0         -         -    1,508.0    946.0        35.0  1,161.0    178.0          -    2.320.0
Other sqatp.e.t and
-!Icella-ono               166.0    -    3.5   14.0       -      183.5   32.0   (2.0   19.4       IL.0      31.0    105.4  100.0       -    65.0      10.0        -       175,0    298.0       12.0      87.9     35.0       31.0      463.9
Deh(ce(o  4 eqolprsen-   Of 0  39.0  43.0  45.0   45.0   51.0    223.0   40.8   41.2   87.8    122.5    158.2    450.5   30.0   55.0   56.8             58.0      60.6      260.4    109.8    139.2    189.6    225.5         269.8      933.9
Contrected road
constr-ctioo                  -     _      _      _       _         _      _       _      _                                 217.5  187.5  375.0  1.002.5    975.0   2,757.5    217.5    187.5    375.0  1,002.5             975.0   2,757.5
Road con.tr. ctlon sod
- (nt.n.-.v  by OFD           -     -      -      -       -         -      -       =      -         -         -         - 100.0  199.1  404.4  1,030.4  1,136.1    2,950.0    (80.0    (99.6    404.4  1.030.4   (.136.1   2,950.0
Iot ... i nd boildloon       440.0  95.0  10.0   30.0   30.0   -605.0  360.0   85.0  300.0    115.0           60.0    920.0  545.0   60.0  320.0    30.0            -       955.0  (1345.0    240.0    630.0   175.0           90.0   2.490.0
S- aff  anon ond
e-pe-dittre                 68.1  78.9  78.9   87.2   95.5    408.6   71.7   87.9  133.8    197.7    242.9    734.0   94.5  108.9  182.4    189.6    189.8                765.2    234.3    275.7    395.1    474.5         520.2   1.907.8
Other overhead costa          77.0  94.6  98.4  103.8  105.0    478.8   10.0   26.4   29.0          41.8      47.4    155.4   10.0   31.8   39.2        52.0      53.2       186.2     97.0    152.8    (67.4    197.6         205.6     820.4
Subtotal 1                                                   2.102.9                                            10.164.6                                               9..57.3  3.77_14  (.537.0  3990.2  5.080.8   7,437.4  21.824.8
TrainieL and teohnlcul
SOslatance enoenditoren
Traloini                      75.0  25.0  50.0   25.0       -      175.0   25.0   S0.0   50.D       50.0        -      175.0   25.0      -    25.0        -         -        50.0    125.0       75.0    125.0       75.0         -      400.0
Spec-a1.1i   and coosolt..t
-ericen                       -     -     -       -       -        -   335.0  290.0  290.0          -         -     915.0      -              -                              -      335.0    290.0    290.0          -         -       915.0
Total                                                          175.0                                             1.09.0                                                   50.0   4f0.0    365.0    415.0          75.0         -    1.315.0
Sobtotal 11                                                  2.277.9                                            11.254.6                                               9.607.3  4.239.4  1,5902.09            5.155.8   7.437.4 .231398
Elo Physical rant Innenc Inn ((lO,)
Sobt-otl 1II                                                 2.505.7                                            12.380.1                                              10_568.0  4 663.3  2,092.0 4j845    5,671.3   8  1.8  25.453.8
Ploy PrSce continocvcDea /11
(rood brotS                                                                                                                                                                      S,9i.5  jy412.3  6.020.3  7,517.6  i,073.0  32.534.7
US04.4 nilli.o
L.  Compotod an...i.g the loll oaig rate1  of ci.flation-                                            1978/80    1981/82
-- (X) ----
Dos ;tin                       7             7
(a)  Civil norka               7.5           7
(b)  FertIiter V-fhIlel.
& eq.ipseot            9              8



PHILIPPINES
S14ALLUOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Projected Financial Returns from Plantation Development in Abra
Project period                                                         Financial
Phase I    Phiase II  Phase III                Harvesting phase               internal rate
1978-82      1983-87    1988-92   1993-97  1998-2002  2003-07  2008-12    of return
Planting                                    ha             3,000      10,000      10,000      7,000           -         -         -
Harvesting and replanting                   ha                 -           -           -      3,000      10,000   10,000   10,000
Establishment and maintenance costs         million Y       23.8        47.0        52.0       48.2        40.0      40.0      40.0
Average cost/ha                              P             7,945       4,700       5,200      4,820       4,000    4,000    4,000
US$           1,070         635         703        651         541       541       541
Assumed net harvest, '000 cu m (solid)   n.b.                  -           -           -        600       2,000    2,000    2,000
Benefits (a) at stumpage P 120/cu m         million Y          -           -           -         72         240       240       240
(b) at stumpage P 100/cu m        million P          -           -           _         60         2U0       200       200
Net benefits (a) at stumpage P 120/cu m, million P   (23.8)           (47.0)      (52,0)       23.8         200       200       200          9.2X
(b) at stumpage P 100/cu m, million P   (23.8)         (47.0)       (52t0)       11.8         160       160       160          7.8X
/a  Harvesting costs are estimated at P 60/cu m.
- -



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Area
Location and Gross Area
1.     The project area is located in the central part of Abra Province, of
Northern Luzon. A total area of some 33,000 ha of land under the juris-
diction of BFD has been delineted as a priority reforestation area for the
longer-term project development. In the first phase, i.e. the project
period, only a net area of 3,000 ha, situated within three blocks of land
covering a gross area of 4,300 ha, would be planted (Table 1). The total
area lies within BFD Region No. 1, Districts 4 (Lagangilang) and 5 (Bangued).
The initial area lies only in District 4.
2.     The project area is part of the Abra river catchment basin which
extends over about half a million hectares and which has priority status in
the national reforestation plan over the next decade. The delineated area
roughly forms a block of land 10 km wide and 33 km long and lies due east of
the Abra and Tineg Rivers. The plantation site lies between the site of the
pulpwood mill under construction at Tayum by Cellophil Resources Corporation
(CRC) about 15 km to the West, and the border of a 200,000 ha timber con
cession, 10 km to the East, held by CRC and its sister company Cellophane
Corporation.  Map No.         shows the general location.
Access
3.     National Highway No. 6, the only East-West road connection in
Northern Luzon, runs through the southern part of the delineated area and the
first phase planting land. However, it provides access to plantation land
adjacent to the road only. There are few existing additional roads which the
project could use, most of these branch off Highway 6 or approach the area
from the Abra and Tineg River valleys.
Topography
4.     The entire area is mountainous and hilly.  Moderately steep slopes
characterize the lower hills draining towards the West. Further inside the
delineated area slopes become steeper. Gradients over 75% occur but not over
large areas. The altitude varies between 200 and 700 m, with the higher
ridges rising to 950 m. The center and eastern sections of the area are cut
up by tributary rivers into pockets of land potentially suitable for plan-
tation establishment.
Climate
5.     The area is subject to two pronounced seasons:  dry from November to
April and wet for the remaining months. Rainfall for Lagangilang, a station
close to the delineated area, gives a 10-year annual average of 3,060 mm. The
heaviest falls are between June and mid-September. There is considerable



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2
annual variation in the date of the onset and the end of the rainy season.
The number of rainy days per year is about 120. Planting, therefore, would be
confined to the 2-month period from end May to end July, to give the seedlings
a fair amount of time to root during the wet season. Fire control measures
would be stringent from December to April. The mean relative humidity is
around 78% and the mean annual temperature just above 260   Temperatures
ranges approximately 120 to 360C in the dry season and 200 to 350C in the wet
season. Prevailing winds are from North in the dry season but come more from
South-East in the rains-during June-September. Average wind speed is about 6
knots. Frequency of typhoons in the Ilocos region is about 3 per year, with
a peak likelihood in September.
Soils
6.     No detailed soil survey has been made in the area.  The government's
soil surveys department classification puts the soils in the Bituin and
Bolinao series, the Cervantes series, undifferentiated mountain soils and
rough stoney lands. Soil samples recently taken by BFD in Planting Block A
indicate a pH of 5.0 in the top soil and of 5.2 in the subsoil. Fertility
levels are low, particularly those of phosphorus and possibly boron. However,
the deficiencies can be corrected by fertilizing. Further soil analyse,
including catenary sequences on grassland soils, are needed and have been
included in the project.
Vegetative Cover
7.     An estimate of the vegetative cover gives the following approximate
breakdown:
Ha        Percent
Grassland                              16,000         48
Natural Forest and brush                7,000         22
Rocky and steep (over 75%
slopes)                                4,000         12
Reforested - moderately or
well stocked                           2,000          6
Reforested - poorly or hardly
stocked                                4,000         12
Total                     33,000        100
The natural forest and brush, practically all broadleafed except on the
highest ridges, is located along the small rivers and creeks and is mainly
confined to the steep slopes surrounding the river sources. The areas, in
which Benguet pine has been planted for reforestation, are close to the
Forestry Station and adjacent to Highway No. 6.
/I A sequence of samples along a line vertical to the main contours from
ridge to valley bottom.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3
Current Land Use
8.     Grassland within the delineated area is currently used extensively
for cattle grazing which implies annual burning. Some of the grazing is
legally permitted and covered by long-term leases (30 years) or permits
of one year's duration approved and issued by BFD. Significant encroachment
by farmers practicing shifting cultivation is not evident.
9.     The aggregate area of grazing leases is approximately 1,500 ha and
that of grazing permits about 300 ha. The large remainder of the grasslands,
an estimated 10-14,000 ha, is being grazed de facto, i.e., without legal
authorization, although some cattle holders have applied for grazing rights
and may even in practice pay an annual rent. BFD is no longer issuing any
new grazing leases or permits in the area.
10.    Cattle populations are low and average 1 head per 3 ha according to a
sample of one-fifth of the leases, permits, and applications with de facto
grazing. The lease holders and some of the permit holders live outside the
delineated area, mostly in Bangued, the capital of Abra. The cattle held on
BFD land without legal authorization belongs generally to families living in
the villages within the area or close by. Total cattle population within the
33,000 ha has not been determined but is unlikely to exceed 5,000 heads.
Population
11.    The population of Abra Province at the 1975 census as about 150,000,
giving a density of 35-40 persons per 59 km. Abra Province is predominantly
rural with over 80% of the population residing outside urban areas. About
54% are in the 16 to 64 year age groups, designated as the working or pro-
ductive age groups.
12..   The bulk of the delineated area falls within the 5 municipalities of
Lagangilang, Licuan, Baay, Alaoa, and Lacub. Based on municipal census
figures, the estimated population in the area is 4,500 to 5,000 of which more
than 800 would be males of employable age. The figure indicates that adequate
numbers of labor should be available, particularly allowing for the employment
of a proportion of women, and that the creation of rural employment represents
a desirable objective. As it would expand, the project could later on draw
upon labor from municipalities in adjacent areas.
Plantation Blocks under the Project
13.    For planting of 3,000 ha during the project period, BFD has selected
an initial area of 3 blocks, covering a gross area of 4,300 ha or 13% of the
total area. The initial area contains few pasture leases and permits and is
somewhat less steep than the larger area. Details are given in Table 1. The
three blocks of the initial area are adjacent or close to Highway No. 6.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Area for Project Period
(ha)
Block A       Block B       Block C
(prelimi-    (develop-    (develop-   Total
nary phase)  ment phase)  ment phase)  area          %
I.  Gross area delineated                  375          2,950          975       4,30.0  100
II. Deductions
1. Alienable and disposable
(A & D)                        75            137            -         212    5
2.  River                             3              10            6          19 }
3.  Rocky                             -              10           10          20}  1
4.  Natural forest                     2              3            8          13 }
5.  Successful plantations            5              40            -          45    1
6.  Land steeper than 75%             -             110           15         125    3
Subtotal                   85            310           39         434   10
7.  Pasture leases                   20             100            -        120    3
8.  Pasture permits                   -              35            -          35    1
9.  Pasture applications              -             117           78         195    4
Subtotal                   20            252           78         350    8
Total deductions          105            562          117         784   18
III.  Net plantable area                     270          2,388          858       3,516   82 (100%)
Estimate of area with slope
< 50%                                                                   2,636        (75%)
Estimate of area with slope
50-75%                                                                    880        (25%)



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Species and Cultural Trials
1.        The main needs for development research are:
- Pilot plantations
- Species and cultural trials
- Nursery technique tests
Pilot Plantations
2.        The pilot plantations, for all practical purposes, would represent
the bulk of the preliminary phase (1978-80) planting program, encompassing a
total target of 340 ha. They would consist of catenary plantings to test
P. caribaea against a range of sites, aspects, and other conditions in the
area.  These trials would test a range of promising P. caribaea provenances
and other selected tropical pine species, and they would check a number of
main problem areas. Only certified, good seed from reliable sources should
be used. Planting would be done as a normal operation, at standard spacing
(2.5 x 2.5 m), but with particular care. Accurate, detailed records would
have to be continually kept on species/provenance, site, and all cultural
measures as well as on the growth data as it becomes available.
Species and Cultural Trials
3.        These trials would comprise 80 ha during the project period, i.e.,
20 ha/ year during the three-year preliminary phase and an estimated 10 ha/
year during the two-year development phase. The trials would be established
on good plantable sites close to the nursery/project headquarters. The
results from the provenance trials should be continuously evaluated, together
with those of the pilot plantations to enable detailed plans for the develop-
ment phase to be made in the third year of the project. To ensure that trials
are established and maintained to a high standard, one forester would supervise
planting, maintenance, measurement, and compilation of records.
4.        Species/Provenance Trials.  Apart from P. caribaea, which should
receive the most attention, also P. oocarpa, and possibly P. tenuifolia and
P. pseudostrobus, would be given attention.
-  Plots of 100 trees, spacing 2.5 x 2.5 m, plot size 0.0625 ha
-  P. caribaea:  at least 8 provenances x 3 replications = 24 plots = 1.50 ha
-  P. oocarpa:   "    "   5      "        x 3      "        = 15   "   = 0.94 ha
-  Other pines:  "    "   5      "        x 3      "        = 15  "t  = 0.94 ha
Annual total = 54 plots = 3.38 ha
- Duration:  3 years planting, 15 to 18 years (or more) measurement and evalua-
tion.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 2
It is recommended that in the nursery for the species/provenance trials the
different types of trees are indicated by color code stripes on the polythene
pots.
5.        Cultural Trials.  Experience indicates that improved survival and
productivity can be obtained in plantations by research into
nursery techniques, plant size, potting material, ground preparation, planting
time, planting technique, fertilizing, and post-planting culture (especially
weeding). These trials should be carried out in plots with the most promising
provenance of P. caribaea (hondurensis) in the beginning. The species/provenance
may be changed later, but the same species provenance must be used for the
different treatments during each year.
(i) Spacing trials
- 5 spacings: 2 m, 2.25 m, 2.5 m, 3 m (avg. 2.38 m)
-  Plot size:   0.1 ha, trees ranging 110 to 250 per plot (avg. 180)
- Annual total:  2 sites x 5 spacings x 5 replications = 50 plots =
5.00 ha
- Duration: 3 years planting, 15 to 18 years (or more) measurement
and evaluation.
(ii) Fertilizer trials (plantation establishment)
- 2 fertilizer applications in 12 combinations:
Fertilizer            Treatment (g/tree)
Applications 1.  Sodium Borate                0:25:50
Super Phosphate            0:50:100:150
Applications 2.  Sodium Borate               0:25:50
Balanced granular NPK      0:50:100:150
- Plots of 49 trees, spacing 2.5 x 2.5 m, plot size 0.0306 ha
- Annual total: 2 sites x 2 applic. x 12 combin. x 6 replic. =
288 plots = 8.81 ha
-  Duration:  3 years planting, but on the basis of results further
trials around the optimum may continue. Measurements continue for
15 years.
(iii) Weeding frequency
- 3 weeding cycles: 4 weekly wet season cycle
6         it   of ..
8   "     it   t 
-  Plots of 100 trees, spacing 2.5 x 2.5 m, plot size 0.0625 ha
- Annual total:  2 sites x 3 cycles x 3 replic. = 18 plots = 1.13 ha
- Duration: 3 years planting, w&eding to be continued until plants
dominate site. Growth measurements continue for 6 years or more.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 3
(iv) Undetailed trials, to be designed by the project:
(a) Plantation establishment techniques
- potting material: plastic pots (several sizes and
makes) vs. biodegrading paper pots
- chemical weeding of planting spots (various doses
and makes of herbicides)
- hoeing of 0.3 m contour benches and planting on mound
- size of planting stock
- season of planting
- dry season weeding
(b) Nursery techniques
- potting mixture (soil and sand; pine-mycorrhizal inoculation)
- fertilizer
- sowing time
- watering regime
- hardening off
Most of these trials could be performed with little additional
arrangements in the course of routine nursery and planting
operations and only few of them would necessitate the establish-
ment of particular replicated experiment plots.
6.        The species ansd cultural trials would together cover the following
areas:
Category of Trials           Annual Area
Species                         3.4 ha
Spacing                         5.0 ha
Fertilizer                      8.8 ha
Weeding                         1.1 ha
Undetailed (part)               1.7 ha (estimate)
Total                    20.0 ha
All trials would be measured and results evaluated during the January to May
period of each year, i.e. the latter part of the dry season. Both pilot planta-
tions and trial plot areas would be fenced. After 3 years, when about 60 ha
of trials would have been established, a decision would be taken on the need
to continue such trials, possibly at a reduced annual area.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Organization Chart of the BFD Plantation Development Project
Project Steering Committee
Project Director
(Regional Director, BFD Region 1)
Project Manager
(Professional Forester)
Nursery &                      Administration                      Roads
Plantation Unit              & Supervision Unit                    Unit
Professional Forester-*                                     Roads/Forest Engineer
Nursery                       Accounting                      Road Construction
Plantation                    Administration                  Road Maintenance
Establishment
Supervision                    Equipment Support
Plantation                                                    Services
Maintenance                   Public Relations
Fire Protection               & Extension
/* Internationally recruited specialist.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
A.  Draft Terms of Reference for Specialists in Plantation
Development and Nursery Techniques (3 man years total)
1.        Qualifications Required.  Fully qualified professional forester
with specialized knowledge of tropical pine plantations are needed. They
will be required to be fluent in English.
2.        The specialists would be recruited and should be experienced
foresters with extensive knowledge of all facets of plantation establishment,
particularly in hill grasslands. He would be required to have sound knowledge
of nursery techniques for pines. He should also be aware of the objectives
and methods of applied plantation research plus species and provenance
trials.
3.        Responsibilities.  The specialists would be responsible for assisting
the Project Manager in all aspects of plantation development, and in particular:
(i) site selection for plantations;
(ii)  selection and development of nursery sites;
(iii) development of commercial nursery techniques for pilot and
full-scale planting;
(iv)  development of techniques for large-scale plantation
establishments;
(v) development of nursery and field trials to refine or
improve standard methods;
(vi)  the preparation of detailed plantation plans;
(vii) the design and execution of fire control plans; and
(viii) the provision of field training and the selection of
candidates for overseas training.
(ix)  they would submit annual progress reports to the project manager and
a final report including recommdnations for the remaining project
period, at the end of their terms.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 4
Page 2
B. Draft Terms of Reference for Short-Term Consultant
for Initial Plantation Development (5 weeks)
1.        Purpose.  To assist the Project Manager in planning the layout and
technical details for the first year's planting of the project, i.e. before
it is likely that the long-term specialist in plantation development and
nursery techniques will have arrived.
2.        Qualifications.  A forester with specialized knowledge of tropical
pine plantations, including particularly Pinus caribaea. He will be required
to speak and write English well.
3.        The consultant would be recruited immediately at the beginning of
the project for a period of about five weeks. He should have several years'
experience in tropical pine plantation development and should have successfully
planned and managed such a plantation. He should have operated in a tropical
area of similar climatic and edaphic features to the project area and he
should be familiar with the various provenances and strains of P. caribaea.
He should have the ability to lay out species and cultural trials as well as
pilot plantations. He would also require to be experienced in the siting of
pine nurseries.
4.        Responsibilities.
(i)  site selection for nursery, or confirmation of suitability of site
proposed; development plan for Phase I nursery, keeping in mind
later nursery expansion and proximity of suitable soil;
(ii) site selection and layout for first year's trial plantations
(80 ha); plan for planting sequence;
(iii)  site selection and layout of first year's species and cultural
trials (20 ha) along the lines of Annex 5, Attachment 2; plan of
trial sequence, keeping in mind trial continuation in following
years;
(iv) design of fire control plan for first year's plantings and trials;
(v) confirmation of adequacy of seedlings supply and quality for first
year's plantinga dn trials; recommendations for immediate corrective
measures, if needed;
(vi) specification of seed supply needs for second year's plantings
(80 ha) and trials (20 ha);
(vii)  list and detailed description of work phases, including time
schedule, for first year's planting and trials (up to planting
only);



ANNEX 4
Attachment 4
Page 3
(viii) list of features to be measured and recorded, and at what time
intervals, in trials and pilot plantations;
(ix) specification for additional soil samples, if needed, in Block A,
and for new soil samples in Blocks B and C.
5.        The Consultant will spend about 3 weeks in the field in the project
area and will subsequently compile his findings and recommendations in a
report to be left with the Project Manager.
6.        After departure from the Philippines, the Consultant should be pre-
pared to give advice by correspondence on reasonable requests, to the Project
Manager in matters related to this assignment.
7.        The short-term Consultant should not be eligible to apply for the
long-term specialists's assignment specified in Section A of this attachment
to Annex 5.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 5
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Projected Implementation Schedule of Industrial Plantation Development
Probable Timing         Phase                       Main Activity
1977/early 1978   Pre-project          Procurement of seeds and raising of
seedlings for planting 100 ha in 1978;
appointment of Project Chief, Project
Manager & initial staff.
1978-80            Ia:  Preliminary   Pilot plantations, 340 ha; species/
Phase -       provenance trials, 60 ha; establishment
Project       of project HQ and nursery; development
of nursery techniques; survey & freeing
of land for large-scale plantation
development.
1981/82           Ib:  Development   Industrial plantations, 2,600 ha; species!
Phase -       provenance trials, 20 ha; maintenance of
Project       400 ha of existing plantation; preparation
of Phase II.
1982-87           II (Post-Project)  Industrial plantations, 10,000 ha; con-
tinuation of trials as needed; maintenance
of 3,000 ha of existing plantations;
preparation of Phase III; commencement
of thinning experiments.
1988-1992          III (Post-Project) Further expansion of industrial plantations;
maintenance of 13,000 of existing planta-
tions; experimental and, if warranted,
operational thinnings; preparation of
clear felling operations.
1993, etc.         IV (Post-Project)  Clear felling & replanting; regular
thinnings; maintenance of existing stands.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Research on Establishment, Marketing
and Technical Aspects Relating to Tree Farming
Contents
Page No.
Background   ...                                                1
Research Activities .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .      2
Topic I:  Valumetric Information  . . . . . . . . .       2
Topic II:  Seed Production and Breeding . . . . . .       2
Topic III:  Socio-Economic Information  . . . . . .       3
Topic IV:  Markets, Marketing and Prices  . . . . .       3
Topic V:  Selected Technical Studies  . . . . . . .       4
Organization and Practical Considerations  . . . . . . .        5
Subproject Cost  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . .    .  5
Table 1: Research to be conducted by PCARR
Table 2: Cost Estimate Summary
Background
1.        Although a considerable amount is known about Ipil Ipil (Leucaena
leucocephala) and Albizzia falcata much of the data are conflicting, and in
several specific fields the information is insufficient.  In view of the
potential importance of Ipil Ipil Albizzia and several other fast growing
broad leaf species in the reforestation program of the Philippines, a national
research program has been prepared to help resolve the more important ques-
tions. Funding for the program, however, has been a problem.
3.        It is proposed therefore to finance, under the Treefarming and
Forestry loan, those elements of the proposed national research program which
bear directly on the Bank project. Some other studies not included in the
national program would also be funded because of their importance to the
project and the subsequent expansion likely to occur in tree farm development
throughout the Philippines.
Objectives
3.        The research components to be funded under the project have the
following objectives:
(a)  To assemble and reconcile the data on Albizzia f. and
G. Ipil-Ipil in a number of selected subjects of
biological, technological, and socio-economic nature;



ANNEX 5
TEage 2
(b) To further develop the methods of cultivation with these two
species, particularly in smallholder tree farms;
(c) To firm up the end uses of the products from Albizzia and
Ipil Ipil;
(d) To assist the Monitoring Unit within DBP in monitoring
tree farm development;
(e) To develop energy-efficient methods of wood burning.
Most of the research would address itself to practical problems
with only minor basic research involved. Of particular importance would
be the cooperation with DBP in the monitoring of tree farm development.
Research Activities
4.        Some 18 research subjects, falling into 5 major topics, would
be financed under the project (Table 1) but most of the research would be
on Giant Ipil Ipil, as this is the more recently introduced species and on
which there is less empirical information.
5.        Topic I: Volumetric Information
(a) Volume tables for G. Ipil-Ipil. The construction of volume tables/
equations would be based on measurements in existing and emerging
stands of this species. Particular care would be given to achieving
representative data. The volume would be expressed including and
excluding bark, and up to a specified minimum top diameter.
(b) Weight-volume and solid-stacked volume relationships for
G. Ipil-Ipil. Weight, - green, air-dry and bone-dry - as well
as stacked volume would be related to solid volume as a basis
for pricing wood and for estimating transportation costs.
(c) Site quality and productivity of G. Ipil-Ipil. Site index
tables would be constructed as a tool for stand management,
yield prediction, and for planning future plantings.
(d) Growth, yield, and rotation of G. Ipil-Ipil in relation to
spacing, stand managemnt, and site. Representative data on
these complex relationships would be developed. The optimum
length of rotation, considering financial and biological aspects,
would be determined according to end product e.g. for firewood
or for charcoaling).
(e) Growth, yield, and rotation age of Albizzia f. in relation
to spacing, stand management, and site. This study would mainly
be carried out by assembling, systematizing, and analyzing
existing information in collaboration with companies which have
been planting this species for a number of years.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        Topic II:  Seed Production and Breeding
(a) Regeneration of G. Ipil-Ipil. A method would be developed to
ensure adequate volume production from coppice-based rotations.
The study would determine the physical inputs required, specify
optimum treatments and their timing, and analyze the economics
involved. It would address itself to those areas in the Philippines
most suitable for G. Ipil-Ipil tree farm development.
(b) Regeneration of Albizzia f. A study would be made of the stump
and root rots that may affect coppicing.
(c) Collection, treatment and storage of G. Ipil-Ipil seeds.
Simple standard procedures would be developed to collect, treat
and store seeds while maintaining a high germintion percentage.
(d) Treatment of G. Ipil-Ipil trees for seed production. Giant
Ipil Ipil produces seeds prolifically at an early age, but
the advantages of establishing and maintaining seed orchards
with promising strains, compared with collection of seed from
common plantations, would be examined.
(e) G. Ipil-Ipil seed bank establishment. Collection and storage of
certified seed would be initiated in several areas of the country,
in view of the envisioned upsurge in tree farm and larger-scale
plantation development.
(f) Control of pests and fungi affecting G. Ipil-Ipil seeds.
Measures would be developed to prevent damage to stored seed by
pests and diseases.
(g) Variety trials with G. Ipil-Ipil. After an initial screening,
a limited number of G. Ipil-Ipil strains would be selected for
varietal trials under varying climatic, topographic and edaphic
conditions.
7.        Topic III:  Socio-Economic Information.
Different size tree farms would be selected, both from already
existing tree farms and new ones to be established under the project. Selection
of the latter would be agreed upon with the Monitoring Unit in DBP. The study
would concentrate on G. Ipil-Ipil tree farms, but would also include Albizzia
plantings. The following main aspects would be investigated: (a) impact on
income distribution, (b) family labor contribution, (c) farmer attitude toward
tree farming, and (d) importance of the agro-element in agro-forestry farming.
8.        Topic IV.  Markets, Marketing, and Prices.
Trends in domesitc markets and prices of the various end products
would be analyzed as well as the export demand for Ipil Ipil leaf meal.
Marketing channels and associated costs would be surveyed and the net profit to
the tree farmer derived.



ATNEX 5
Page 4
9.        Topic V.  Selected Technical Studies.
(a) Specific gravity and calorific value of G. Ipil-Ipil would be
determined over a representative range of conditions, i.e. soils,
climate, strains, age of the tree at cutting, length of time in
storage, and method of storing. Similar information would also
be compiled on the specific gravity of Albizzia f.
(b) Improvement of earth kiln carbonization method. While cheap and
labor-intensive, the earth kiln method for producing charcoal
generally gives only low yields of charcoal (20-25% of the dry
weight of wood), and does not enable by-products, i.e. primarily
tars and gases to be utilized. Also product quality is usually
quite variable. The study would attempt to standardize the earth
kiln carbonization method to achieve uniformity of product, in-
crease yield and make possible the recovery of at least part of
the by-products of carbonization.
(c) Albizzia f. for particle board. The physical properties and
economic feasibility of using Albizzia in the production of parti-
cle board would be investigated. The result of admixing with
natural hard woods would also be studied. The sample products
would be compared for domestic and export standards.
(d) Cheap, efficient wood-burning household stove. Present levels of
household firewood consumption are very high, averaging 0.5 cu mt
person/year for the nation and exceeding 1 cu m/person/year
(= 5-6 cu m/ family) in many rural areas. In part the high con-
sumption levels are due to inefficient cooking systems, which
result in excessive heat loss. While properly designed wood-
burning stoves can obtain 50-60% heat efficiency from wood fuel,
the commonly used stoves probably attain no more than 10-20%
efficiency. Improvement to, say 30-40% efficiency, could reduce
fuelwood requirements to less than one half of the present quanti-
ties. This could significantly assist in resolving the present fuel
wood shortage in many regions and form an integral part of the
Government strategy for reforestation. The study would evaluate the
performance of improved wood stoves and assess the practicability
of their wide adoption by households. For this purpose, a number
of selected households would be provided with stoves of different
types and accurate measurements would be kept of wood consumption.
These households would be related to "control" households using
the traditional cooking system. Concurrent with this activity,
laboratory trials would be conducted to design, construct and
test efficient stoves made from locally available materials.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Organization and Practical Considerations
10.       PCARR would work out detailed plans for the research subjects
as outlined in this Annex within 3 months of the signing of the loan docu-
ments and submit them to the Bank for review. Cooperating companies and
agencies to be involved in the research are listed in Table 1 each would be
involved in assisting PCARR, institutions both in the design and the execu-
tion of the research activities. Sample tree farms, which would have to be
visited on several occasions, would be selected and contacted in coopera-
tion with the Monitoring Unit of DBP. The different research activities
would encompass both tree farms established under this project and, whenever
necessary existing tree farms. Only a minimum of experimental plots would
be established, i.e. only when suitable stands are not available elsewhere.
Research results would be communicated to DBP, to the cooperating agencies/
companies and to the Bank as they emerge.
Subproject Cost
11.       Total cost of the research component excluding price contingencies
is estimated at P 2.7 million (US$0.36 million), of which 20% would be in
foreign exchange. The estimated cost breakdown by major research topics is
given in Table 2. About 35% of the total cost would cover personal services,
42% travel, material, supplies and sundry, 15% equipment, and 8% administra-
tion mainly by PCARR (see Annex 2, para. 16).



AhNEX 5
Table I
PHII1 PPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECI
Research to be Coordinaced by PCARR
Species Project Component                        Per-
Fire    Charcoal                           forming   Cooperating
Wood    Wood          Leaf   Pulpwood    Instito-  Agencies//a              Study Activity
General type and specific subject                   G  Ipil-Epil   Albizza f. (Ilocos) (Minda.am)  neal   (nindano)  tins.              Institutions          -    Years -
l 2 3 4
I.    Volumetric Information
1.  Co.struction volume tables                     Y                         X        X                               UPCF        NVC, BFD
2.  WeightNvolum  and solid/staked                 X                         X        X                               FORI        MVC
volume relationships
3.  Site quality and producti,ity                  X                         X        X                               PORI        MVC. BFD
relat ionship
4.  Growth and yieldfrotation, spacing,            X                         X        X                               FORI        MVC, BFD
anagement (inc. thinning)
relat ionships
5.  Croth and yield/rotation, spacing,                            X                                          X        UPCP        PICOP/RPnI  DATICOR
management (inc. thinning)
relat lonships
It.  Seed Production and Tree Breeding
1.  Regeneration methods                            X                        X        X                               UPCF        NYC, CMC. BPI
2.  Regeneration inethods                                         X                                          X        UPCF        PICOP/RPYMI, DATICOR
3. Collection, treatment and storage
of seeds                                      X                       X       X          -  X                  PORI         MVC, MG.C BFD, BPI
4. Seed orchards and treatment of
trees for s-ed production                    X                       X       X             X                  POlI        MVC, GnC, BPI
5.  Nation-uide sed bank establishment              X                        X       X             X                  PORI        MVC,GMC,BFD,BPI,PVCA
6.  Control of sed infesting pests and
pathogens                                     X                       X       X             X                  fOkl        MVC, GMC  BFO, BPPI
7.  Varietal trials                                 X                        X       X             X                  UPC?         GlC, BFD_ ___
III.  Socio-Economic Information
I.  Economic signifIcance of tree
farming for smallholders                     X             X           X        X            X          x      PORI        nvc, GHC, BPE,
DATICOR
IV.   Marketing. Market* Prices
1. Markets, matrkting channls and
price structure for various end
products                                      X                        X         X                             PORI7/UPCF  MVC GHC. PVTA
V.    Selected Technical Studies
1.  Specific gravity and calorific value             X           (X)          X         X                           FORPIDECOM  MVC, PVTA
2. Improvement of earth kiln charcoaling
method                                        X                                  X                           FORPRIDECOM  MVC
3. Suitability for particle board
production                                                 X                                             X   FORPRITECON  DATICOR
4. Development of efficient household
stove                                                                 does not apply -                       FORPRIDECOM   BFD
Total (lS subjects)
/a  Also selected private C. Ipil-Ipil plantation owners and other industries buying tree farm products.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Research to be Coordinated by PCJARR
Cost Estimate Summary
Salaries  Materials                           Total by years
Research topic                         & wages   & travel   Equipment   Total    1         2    3    4
------ ------ (pI  000)    …
I. Volumetric information
a.  G. Ipil-Ipil related                                              270
b.  Albizzia F. related                                                130
Subtotal                   150         180          70         400    -    240  110   50
II.  Seed production & tree
breeding
a.  G. Ipil-Ipil related                                              440
b.  Albizzia F. related                                                60
Subtotal                   260         190          50         500    60   210  150   80
III.  Socio-economic information          80         170           -         250    80    40   40   90
IV.  Marketing, markets, prices          50         100           -         150     -      -  120   30
V. Selected technical studies
a. Basic research (specific
gravity calorific
value, etc.)                                                    230
b. Applied research (char-
coaling, particle
board, stoves)                                                  570
Subtotal                    250         320         230         800    90   360  250  100
Total I                     7__         96Q         350       2. IQ   230   850  &Ya  350
Physical
contingencies, 10%                                            210    23    85   67   35
Administration, 10%                                             210    23    85   67   35
Total II                                                      2,520  276  1,020  804  420
Price contingencies                                             500
Grand total                                                   3,020
US$                                                  308,000



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Phasing of Prolect Expenditures and Proposed Financing
1978      1979       1980       1981      1982            Total
------------------P million        ----------   P million   US$ million
A.  DBP
Area of treefarm dev. (ha)   (2,900)   (6,200)   (9,500)  (10,000)           -
DBP financing                    5.00      10.80      16.90      17.80       -            50.50
DBP administrative cost          0.64       0.57       0.81       0.87                     2.89
Beneficiaries                    0.26       0.75       1.12       1.18       -             3.31
Subtotal                    5.90     12.12      18.83      18.85       -            56.70
Price contingencies              0.44       1.88       4.56       6.45       -            26.70
Total                       6.34      14.00     23.39      26.30       -             70.00
Proposed IBRD financing          2.85       6.30      10.53      11.84       -            31.50         4.25
B.  BPI
Nursery expansion                0.48       0.09       0.09       0.09       -             0.75
Proposed IBRD financing          0.19       0.04       0.04       0.04       -             0.31         0.04
C. PCARR
Research                         0.28       1.02       0.80       0.42       -             2.52
Price contingencies              0.02       0.16       0.19       0.13       -             0.50
Total                       0.30       1.18      0.99       0.55       -              3.02
Proposed IBRD financing          0.26       1.00       0.84       0.46       -             2.56         0.34
D.  BFD
Area of plantation develop-
ment (ha)                      (100)      (100)      (200)      (610)  (2,010)
Price contingencies              4.66       2.09       4.85       5.67      8.18          25.45
Total                       5.01       2.41       6.02      7.52    11.57           32.53
Proposed IBRD financing          2.40       1.16       2.89       3.61      5.55          15.61         2.11
E.  DNR
Project preparation unit         0.35       0.55       0.70       0.90      0.90           3.40
Wood industry dev. study          -         1.00       1.40       1.60      1.55           5.60
Total                       0.35       1.55       2.10      2.50      2.50            9.00
Proposed IBRD financing          0.30       1.24       1.68       2.00      2.00           7.20         0.95
F.  DA
Project preparation unit         0.37       0.57       0.70       0.92      0.91           3.47
Proposed IBRD financing          0.29       0.45       0.56       0.73      0.73           2.76         0.37
G. Total of proposed IBRD
financing                      6.29      10.19      16.54      18.68     8.28           59.94         8.00
Note: discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREEFARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year       Quarterly Disbursement        Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                  US$'000
FY1978
First
Second
Third                           -
Fourth                       .70                              70
FY1979
First                         100                            170
Second                        200                           370
Third                         250                            620
Fourth                        300                            920
FY1980
First                        300                          1,220
Second                       300                          1,520
Third                         350                          1,870
Fourth                        360                         2,230
FY1981
First                        450                          2,680
Second                       450                          3,130
Third                         500                         3,630
Fourth                       540                          4,170
FY1982
First                        650                          4,820
Second                       650                          5,470
Third                         700                         6,170
Fourth                       550                          6,720
FY1983
First                        460                          7,180
Second                       450                          7,630
Third                        370                          8,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
General
1.        The two main components of the project, tree farming and forestry
are independent of each other with regard to the economic analysis. The tree
farming subcomponents are also independent of each other regarding physical
on-farm development. This means that the benefits from each one of them dc
not depend on whether the others are implemented.
Basic Assumptions
2.        Standard conversion factor (SCF).  An SCF of 0.9 was applied to the
domestic component of inputs and outputs to translate them into border prices.
3.        Savings.  Following Bank standard practice no premium has been put
on public or private savings. Consequently, public income and private
consumption are assumed to be equally valuable.
4.        Costs.  These include physical contingencies, but exclude price
contingencies.
5.        Agricultural inputs and outputs.  The following adjustments were
made to obtain economic prices: (a) imported inputs: market prices were
adjusted as follows: fertilizer (20%), chemicals (15%), motorbikes and jeeps
(50%), road construction and other equipment (25%), machines and vehicles
operation and maintenance (30%), buildings (10%), reflecting import duties
and taxes; (b) labor was shadow-priced to reflect its opportunity cost and to
this in turn was applied the SCF; (c) Land. Project lands have few alterna-
tive uses. Generally they would be denuded hill slopes which are presently
lying idle or intermittently grazed. Output prices were adjusted to reflect
import parity prices of substitutes.
6.        Labor.  Project areas vary in their degree of poverty, ranging from
relatively less poor (Iligan) to extremely poor (Cebu). However, three
common characteristics of these areas are large physical size, their high
degree of seasonal unemployment and underemployment (which applies to most of
the country) and the readiness of the farm population to migrate spontaneously
in response to work opportunities.
8.        As regards the smallholder tree farming component, on-farm development
would take place largely in family units of 1 to 5 ha (80% of project area),
and of up to 10 ha (20% of area) and development would proceed in stages. This
means that a maximum use would be made of family labor but that, nonetheless,
some labor would be hired for planting beyond 1 ha per year and for harvesting



ANNEX 7
Page 2
in all cases.  Given the fact that they are planting permanent tree crops,
benef ciaries woulid enl.cv more freedom from the effects of seasonal rainfall
variation than would be the case for annual crops.  This would give them
flexibilit7 in the timing of replanting and harvesting operations and allow
these to coincide with periods of relative underemployment before and after
the subsistence crops have been planted and harvested.
9.        The total area to be developed under the tree farming component is
about 29,000 ha over a period of 4 years, with peak development in years 3 and
4 at about 10,000 ha each. The total number of farms involved would be about
7,400 with Deak development also in years 3 and 4 at about 2,500 families.
Planting labor requirements over the four-year period would be 1.3 million MD
for Lirewood (I-ocos), 0.5 million MD for charcoal (Iligan), 0.6 million MD
for leafmeal (Cebu), and 0.25 million MD for albizzia for a total of about
2.7 million MD. Peak requirement would be about 0.9 million MD each in years
3 and 4. The latter would be satisfied as follows: 2,500 families now
employed for rough'ly 120 days p.a. would make available another 200 days (150
MD for the head of the family and 50 MD for his wife) for project development
for a total of 0.5 million MD and the balance of 0.4 million MD would be
hired. The latter is equivalent to about 4,000 farm workers, now living
in the project areas, 3wn'ose combined population runs into the millions.
Furthermore, experience in the more isolated, less densely populated regions
such as Iligan and Davao indicates that l-abor is never in short supply when
work opportunittes arise given the high mobility of the Philippine rural
labor force,
10.       Given the above factors, resulting in ready availability of presently
employed and underemployed family and outside labor in and around the project
areas, but allowing for some inflexibility in oul-of-farm labor supply, two
thirds of project labor is economically costed at one third of market rate;
and one third which would be diverted mainly from non-farm emuloyment is
costed at the prevailing market rate of P 7 per day. On these basis the
economic rates of return would be about: 35% (firewood and charcoal), 120%
(leafmeal) and 28% (albizzia). The tree farming component overall return is
estimated at 65% (Table l).
11.       With regard to the plantation component the project area would be in
Abra and, therefore, should overlap somewhat with the tree farming firewood
subcomponent. The same general labor characteristics apply here as for tree
farming. Labor demand would be minimal in years 1 and 2 (20,000 MD each) or
200 workers over a 100-day period, increasing to 400 workers in year 3, 1,080
in year 4 and about 2,500 in year 5. Labor requirements which are either
spread over the year (weeding) or concentrated in the dry season, such as
nurseries and roads, were costed as for tree farming at one third of the
market wage rate. Planting, which must take place in May/July in direct
competition with other agricultural work was costed at the full market rate.
12.       On these basis the plantation development's estimated economic rate
of return is 11% (Table 2). Not included in the economic benefits are
erosion control and watershed protection. These are non-quantifiable, albeit
important benefits.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Sensitivity Analysis
13.       For the charcoal, leafmeal, pulpwood and particleboard project
components, the risks normally associated with such projects would be minimal,
lower yields, and changing domestic and international price factors.
14.       The pace of implementation of the above tree farming categories
should conform closely to appraisal expectations because: (a) all investments
are on-farm (no infrastructure is involved; (b) development is to be performed
largely by the farmers themselves in relatively small individual areas and
over 1 to 3 years; (c) experienced private companies would supply the agricul-
tural inputs, technical assistance and marketing; (d) the areas in question
are within easy reach of the processing plants, and of main population/input
distribution centers; (e) given the small number of participants in relation
to the potential number of farmers already interested, any slowdown in some
farms or areas could be compensated by increasing the number of participants
in others.
15.       Slow farmer response to improved technology is also unlikely for
charcoal leafmeal, pulpwood and particleboard given that the initial response
of project area farmers to the expansion plans of the processing plants has
been strong, and given the technical assistance to be provided by the processors,
and the attractive prices offered to participating farmers.
16.       Yields have been based on those experienced under existing programs
sponsored by processors, especially for albizzia, and taking into account the
technical assistance to be provided by the processors. Prices are based on
market conditions, and on proposed minimum price agreements to be signed by
the farmers with the processors.
17.       All of the above factors make the possibility of relevant changes
in the above parameters unlikely. Although in principle higher probabilities
for all of the above exist in the case of giant Ipil-Ipil (for input supplies,
technical assistance and marketing), even here any major deviation from
expectations could be quickly corrected by transferring investment funds to
the fastest moving categories and areas, with minimum impact on economic
justification.
18.       The plantation development component, however, would be highly
susceptible to higher costs for road construction and maintenance, plantation
establishment and maintenance, as well as to lower yields, since Pinus
caribaea would be new to the area. Also allowance must be made for delays in
project implementation, due to BFD's inexperience in implementing such a
project.  The impact of these factors at levels to be expected is as follow:
Best estimate                                         11%
Road construction and maintenance (+20%)              11%
Plantation establishment and maintenance (+30%)    11%
Yields (-20%)                                         10%
Seven-year implementation                             10%
As shown above, the economic justification of this project component would not
be affected by the most likely adverse circumstances.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
establishment and maintenance, as well as to lower yields, since Pinus
caribaea would be new to the area. Also allowance must be made for delays in
project implementation, due to BFD's inexperience in implementing such a
project.  The impact of these factors at levels to be expected is as follow:
Best estimate                                         11%
Road construction and maintenance (+20%)              11%
Plantation establishment and maintenance (+30%)    11%
Yields (-20%)                                         10%
Seven-year implementation                             10%
As shown above, the economic justification of this project component would not
be affected by the most likely adverse circumstances.



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Tree Farming Component's Economic Rate of Return
(P million)
Years
1     2      3      4     5      6      7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15   16   17    18    19    20
Firewood
Incremental economic benefits            -     -      -      -   3.2  10.3  21.6  21.6   3.2  10.3  21.6  21.6   3.2  10.3  21.6
Incremental economic costs            1.0   3.1   6.5   6.6   0.5   1.9   3.5   3.5            -   0.5   1.7   3.5   3.5        -   0.5
Not benefits                         -1.0  -3.1  -6.5  -6.6   2.7   8.4  18.1  18.1   3.2   9.8  19.9  18.1  -0.3  10.3  21.1
Economic rate of return: 35%
Charcoal
Incremental economic benefits            -     -      -      -   3.4   4.9   4.9   4.9   3.4   4.9   4.9   4.9   3.4   4.9   4.9
Incremental economic costs            1.1   1.6   1.6   1.6   0.8   1.1   1.0   1.0           -   0.7   1.0   1.0   1.0              0.7
Net benefit's                        -1.1  -1.6  -1.6  -1.6   2.6   3.8   3.9   3.9   3.4   4.2   3.9   3.9   2.4   4.9   4.2
Economic rate of return: 34%
Leafmeal
Incremental economic benefits            -   2.7  10.2  18.9  27.3  27.3  27.3  27.3  27.3  27.3  37.3  27.3  27.3  27.3  27.3
Incremental economic costs            0.8   2.8   5.5   8.2   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7
Net benefits                         -0.8  -0.1   4.7  10.7  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6
Economic rate of return: 120%
Pulpwood & particleboard
Incremental economic benefits            -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -   6.8  11.3  15.1  15.1         -     -      -  6.8  11.3  15.1  15.1  -
Incremental economic costs             0.8   1.3   1.7   1.7   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   1.9   3.2   4.2   4.2              -     -      -  1.9   3.2   4.2   4.2  -
Net benefits                         -0.8  -1.3  -1.7  -1.7  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1   4.9   8.1  10.9  10.9               -      -     -  4.9   8.1  10.9  10.9  -
Economic rate of return: 27%
Tree farming rate of return: 65%
H 



PHILIPPINES
SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Development's Economic Rate of Return
(P million)
1    2    3    4    5   6/10  11/15  16/20  21/25  26/30  31/35
Incremental economic benefits
Incremental economic costs
Nurseries                         0.1    -    -  0.1    -
Fire control                        -          - -    -
Vehicles                          0.5    -  0.6  0.1    -
Buildings                         0.8  0.2  0.4  0.1    -
Other equipment & misc.           0.2    -  0.1    -    -
Contracted road construction    0.4  0.2  0.4  0.8  0.8
Seed supplies                       -    -  0.1  0.4  0.4
Nursery operations                  -    -    -  0.1  0.3
Plantation establishment
& maintenance                  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.5  1.6
Vehicles                          0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Road maintenance                  0.1  0.1  0.3  0.7  0.6
Administration & overhead         0.3  0.4  0.6  0.7  0.7
Training                          0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Technical assistance              0.3  0.3  0.3    -    -
Total                 3.0  1.5  3.2  3.7  4.6  32.0  35.1
Incremental economic benefits       -    -    -    -    -       -      -   21.4   180.0  180.0  180.0
Economic rate of return: 11%
( w



CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                         120°                          122'                           124'                             120                   ___       '7
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
I  ILOC()S             '' WHST'ER.NVISAYAS                                                                                         PHILIPPINES
1 llocos Norte            27 Aklan
2Abra                     ^8 Capz                                                                      SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AN
I llocos.,              39 Antfqe                                                8A.
g  voutert              0  lloilo
La Uan                   1 Negros Occidental                                                                         FORESTRY  PROJECT
c Benguet                 C9 NTRAL VISAYAS
Panqasinan              42 Cebu                                                                                                                   F
i  \GAYAN VALLEY           43 Negros Orental                                                                                          MAIN  TREE  FARM  FROJEC-  A'EAS
B atanes                 I,' Bohol
Cagayar                 '.5 Siquijor                                                                                               PLANTATION  DEVELOPMENT
Kahnga-Apayao       '   EASTERN VISAYAS                                                                                            ONGOING  PILOT  TREE  FARM  IROJEC
abela                     'E  NorthernSamar
S,agao                 <7 Samar                                                                                                   PRIMARYHIGHWAY
Nueva Vizcaya           'S Eastern Samar                                      Apaari                                               RALWAYS
LI   N F OR A L   L EZ O N"   5 5                          L cohn L e t
!11 (' l NltAL LL'ZON   -° Southern Leyte                                                                          -             PROVINCIAL  BOUNDAR ES
Nueva Ecla          :'. WESTERN MINDANAO
Talal                       Zamboangade] Norte         Bang ed  .                                                                  REGIONAL  BOUNDARIES
V   ambanesqa                Zamboanga dei S.n
18Panpnga        Z        a Bboanel S 1                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDAR ES
9 Eacdan                      S2>a
20 Bataa,,                     Tawitzai
S So  THEiRN TAGALOG   NORTE    M                    ')
" I              N    OREIRN MINDANAO                                 12
22 R zal                   55 Scurgan del Norte      Soa                             L  U Z 1     N
acme             0~~~~7 Camiguin          Fernando    '1           (       EIZO
- 6° 24 aguna  -       2 Agusan del Norte
2-j Lau9 ~                     M,samis Onental                                       /
2arindnque               O M  am, GOcoidental                    _/
27 MndoroOriental   El Lanao del Norte              75           \      V
Andoro Orr,ental       1        alNre                                 sy's                                           50     5     50    ICC    150    3
29 Ro dbnon                53 BEk,dnon
0 Pa,,n                    34 Agusan de Sur              TffIc    C''   C      nalan                                                 Kl O',E-E RS
BICOL               C~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Sar,gao del SutrQ
E     3i CamarinesNort  XSOUTHERN MINDANAO             AA
Cam,anines Nolr         3  Mvagu indanano              nee         
t ACbaneS                  62 Naorth Cotabato    Olongapo
32 Cataduanes        ES Davao
21Abay                      Davaon Orrental                   Manilc,       r
2 Sorsogon                39 Dava ode Sur
h'   40 3 i datbatO      *       ' 1 Sultan Kudarat                          23
22 Sou     Ctabato                       I-
'K\,  A    Legospi
283
V                                                                          \         '                29               36
':-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / RA,
O Puerto P-iceso  a                                                                             S,urgo             
4                  5
Cadgayan            r 
This map has beer prep,,ed by the                                                          03                  -     ;
Wor1dBahk'sstaffe -lsi-ly for.' tw,_    
th  conemece ofth- eadersof                        !/-                                         }v 
the repo  tohich 4,/ nt-ah.d                   1                                   '         _ 
t 4 ! N 4 T A W A N The d-.-hrt-on used and the /ct7Fv,{,
bo.ndare- shown o,, lh,s ,ap                   _//oaa° -   ,                                  °    
. .                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do hbt bhply,.,o the paa of the       /                                       -o           rDayaoI
Wor/d B5nk and its a ffibate5, any  Zo!rmb o   ar ff<                                                J                 ;/!gAJE
),dg.-mt onthe leg7alsrtuo w- a                                                     c    \
.,y t-t.,y ~~~, -y -d ....ce-t
, 0iw,>                or-ccpta-ceof -ch boundr.-rs           '@sln          '            
)   x,.                                                      _                                '   \  A9  -  \'''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
,   \X. PPlLlE9lNES                                                      '                                        C        \-.S.                          j~~~~~JO005  so,tc
V,CNE      S                     0   c12n e E T  N                                                                1  4'                           12
A A L AY 5'4  g ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       eOo 
i ________________________________I,x  
I___ D_ CN_E_S__120°_12°_124___                                                                                                                I      
This~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _na h_ bee prpae by _h                          _ _2                      






120'30'                                                        1200)45                                                             110
i BBA OF                                TO BA TAC                                                                                         PHILIPPINES                       121
n.1 MAP                                                                                                        SMALLHOLDER TREE FARMING AND FORESTRY PROJECT
LUZON                                                                                                                 BFD PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT LOCATION
oManila                                                                                                                     F t :    (DELINATED PRIORITY REFORESTATION AREA
( GROSS 33 ,000ha1
Badoc                                                                                    BIJii HP    PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT AREAS(GROSS 4,300ha)
a Baoc
MOU  J                   @      PROPOSED CRC PULP MILL
VISAYAS                                                                                   CA YU-  NGAAN                         ROADS
RIVERS
|                                             /                          -.   - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
0                   5                  10
MINDANAO                                 / 
jQ-15UNT                               °                MILES
44j                           ~~~~~DIAGOI,0                                                               15
KILOMETERS
Cabugao    >"                    k                                                        /
0~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1::'    '',.6//i !.'  C(                                                          17°45'-
San Juan
Lagayan           ...  ...   ,          ,
San JuanCR
Magsingal                                                                                                                   OLacLb                CONCESSION
San Ildefonso               I                               Tayum                                                            orestry Station
/                                               L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agangilang
San Vicente       /                         /                         Bangued        Kalaban                .                        ,,
Silang                                                                                        Tawing,
|Vigan O
San6
Quintin                                                            Abas
m -17°30'                                 /.    (h! .                                                                                                                                                     17°30'_
17030                                               'L~~~~~~~~~nt  os'-                                                     This map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff ex,clusively for the convenience 
mjv~                         t4Santa - / CoS . .of the readers of the report to which it s attached The denominations used and the  0
't ) t  T9    ANI      M  RA   20    3  /12 °4'             f  iats.bou and es shown  on  this map  do  not imply, on  the part of the  World  Bank  anda s
affiliates, any judgment on the legal statu,s of any territory or any endorsement or
120030  /                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~acceptance of such boundaries  i
TO SNTA MARIA                              /                                           205                                                                11lo



