CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1506 PH
Loan Agreement
(Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 23, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1506 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Cunditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DBP" means Development Bank of the Philippines, an
agency of the Borrower as established under the Borrower's Act
No. 85 dated June 14, 1958, as amended;
(b) "DA" means the Borrower's Department of Agriculture;
(c) "DNR" means the Borrower's Department of Natural
Resources;
(d) "BPI" means the Bureau of Plant Industry in DA;
(e) "BFD" means the Bureau of Forest Development in DNR;
(f) "PCARR" means the Philippine Council for Agricultural
and Resources Research;
(g) "Natural Resources Projects Preparation Unit" means the
unit referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement;
(h) "Agricultural Projects Preparation Unit" means the unit
referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(i) "Steering Committee" means the committee referred to
in Section 3.09 (c) of this Agreement;
(j) "Project Area A" means regions of about 28,600 ha of
which about 10,100 ha are in Mindanao, 5,500 ha in Visayas and
8,000 ha in Ilocos and about another 5,000 ha in areas selected by
the Borrower, in which Part A of the Project as described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement is to be carried out;
(k) "Project Area B" means regions of about 13,000 ha in
Abra in which Part B.1 of the Project is to be carried out;
(1) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DBP pursuant to Section 3.02
of this Agreement;
(m) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
DBP under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, to a beneficiary for an
Investment Project, and to be financed in part out of the proceeds
of the Loan;
(P) "beneficiary" means a .mallholder in Project Area A to
which DBP proposes to make or has made a sub-loan for tree farming;
(o) "Investment Project" means a specific investment proj-
ect, as approved by DBP pursuant to this Loan Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be carried out by a beneficiary and
to be financed in part by means of a sub-loan;
(p) "Participating Companies" means companies selected by
the Borrower, DBP and the Bank for the purpose of assisting DBP in
carrying out Part A.1 (a) of the Project in accordance with the
relevant Memorandum of Agreement;
(q) "Memorandum of Agreement" means the agreement entered
into by DBP with each of the Participating Companies, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in
Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(r) "BPI Memorandum of Agreement" means the agreement
entered into by DBP with BPI, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including those set forth in Part D of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(s) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement (Indus-
trial Investment and Smallholder Tree Farmers Project) between the
Borrower and the Bank dated June 12, 1974;
(t) "ha" means hectares; and
(u) "V" means Peso in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million
dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 'this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.9%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause to be carried out:
(i) Part A.1 of the Project by DBP,
(ii) Part A.2 of the Project by BPI,
(iii) Part A.3 of the Project by PCARR,
(iv) Part B.1 of the Project by BFD,
(v) Part B.2 of the Project by DNR, and
(vi) Part B.3 of the Project by DA,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, agricultural and silvicultural
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to DBP the pro-
ceeds of the Loan allocated under Category (1) (a) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and DBP, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall take -nd shall cause all its agencies
to take all action which shall be necessary on their part to


﻿-5-
enable DBP zo perform all of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause DBP:
(a) to make sub-loans on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, in
accordance with the Operating Policies and Procedures set forth in
Part B of Schedule 5 hereto, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
represented for these purposes by DBP, and to exercise its rights
under the agreements providing for sub-loans so as to achieve the
purposes of Part A.1 (a) of the Project and enable the Borrower to
comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
(b) to establish and maintain a separate account to be
used exclusively for Part A.1 (a) of the Project; and
(c) to record in such account all receipts and payments
for or in connection with Part A.1 (a) of the Project, in accor-
dance with sound accounting principles consistently applied,
including the following:
(i) amounts received from and payments made to the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(ii) amounts paid and received on account of sub-loans.
Section 3.04. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, consultants and
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, including
but not limited to:
(a) a consultant to commence assisting BFD, on or before
March 31, 1978, in planning planting layouts;
(b) forestry specialists to commence assisting BFD, on
or before November 30, 1978, in implementing Part B.1 of the
Project; and
(c) consultants to commence assisting DNR, on or before
December 31, 1978, in implementing Part B.2 (b) of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of 'he Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-7-
(d) The Borrower shall cause:
( ) the Steering Committee to submit to the Bank,
not later than three months after the end of
each of the Borrower's fiscal years, an annual
progress repo7 on Part B.1 of the Project.
(ii) DBP to submit to the Bank, not later than three
months after the end of each of the Borrower's
fiscal years, the annual progress report on the
monitoring activities referred to in Section 3.10
of this Agreement; and
(iii) PCARR to submit to the Bank, not later than three
months after the end of each of the Bor-rower's
fiscal years, the annual progress report on the
research program referred to in Section 3.13 of
this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, whenever necessary, make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the resettle-
ment and employment of any residents of Project Areas A and B, who
are required to relocate for the n.-pose of the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall   .e to he established and
maintained with powers, membership, stt,Z   ,nd resources satis-
factory to the Bank:
(a) a Natural Resources Projects Preparation Unit in DNR,
responsible for planning and preparing natural resources, includ-
ing forestry, projects;
(b) an Agricultural Projects Preparation Unit in DA, respon-
sible for planning and preparing agricultural projects; and
(c) a Steering Committee in BFD, responsible for approving
and monitoring the work program designed to implement Part B.1 of
the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause DBP to monitor an-
nually, in accordance with monitoring methods satisfactory to the
Bank, a randomly selected sample of Investment Projects financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the loans made by the Bank
to the Borrower for tree farm development pursuant to the Prior
Loan Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause BPI to expand its
nursery capacity and production of Giant Ipil Ipil seedlings,
principally in Ilocos, in accordance with a program satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (i) cause BFD not to issue
or renew pasture permits and pasture leases; and (ii) prohibit
cattle grazing and unauthorized cultivation in Project Area B.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause PCARR to submit to
the Bank on or before May 31, 1978, a program of research satis-
factory to the Bank, on aspects related to tree farm development.
ARTICL IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.


﻿- 9 -
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause DBP, BPI, PCARR,
BFD, DNR and DA to maintain separate records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DBP, BPI, PCARR, BFD, DNR
and DA to: (i) have such accounts and financial statements (DBP
balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than three months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) each Memorandum of Agreement, and the BPI Memorandum
of Agreement, have been signed; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and DBP, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an idditional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DBP,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DBP in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 25, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
De. -tment of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
SECFINANCE                         7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By Is/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /sf S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
CategoKy                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) DBP                                             40%
(a) Sub-loans under           3,775,000
Part A.1 (a) of
the Project
(b) Equipment and                25,000
materials for
Part A.1 (b) of
the Project
(2) BPI                                             40%
Equipment and mate-              40,000
rials for Part A.2 of
the Project
(3) PCARR                                           85%
Equipment, materials,           300,000
staff salaries and
consultants' services
for Part A.3 of the
Project
(4) BFD                                             40%
Civil works, equip-           1,760,000
ment, materials,
salaries for staff
and labor, consul-
tants' and specialists'
services, and training
for Part B.1 of the
Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)                                                  80%
(a) DNR
(i) Equipment,             350,000
materials,
staff salaries
and consultants'
services for
Part B.2 (a) of
the Project
(ii) Consultants'
services for
Part B.2 (b)
of the Project        600,000
(b) DA
Equipment, materials,      350,000
staff salaries and
consultants' services
for Part B.3 of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                      800,000
TOTAL          8,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item


﻿- 14-
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) on account of expenditures incurred for salaries for
staff and labor:
(i) in respect of Category (3) exceeding the equivalent
of $150,000;
(ii) in respect of Category (4) exceeding the equivalent
of $105,000;
(iii) in respect of Category (5) (a) (i) exceeding the
equivalent of $300,000; and
(iv) in respect of Category (5) (b) exceeding the equi-
valent of $300,000.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under


﻿- 15 -
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
6.   The Bank may, on such conditions as it shall determine,
permit withdrawals by the Borrower from the Loan Account in
respect of expenditures for which sufficient evidence of expendi-
ture has not been furnished to the Bank at the time of withdrawal;
at the Bank's request, the Borrower shall promptly repay to the
Bank, in advance of maturity, any amount of the Loan so withdrawn
for which satisfactory evidence of expenditure for the Project in
accordance with the Loan Agreement shall not have been furnished
to the Bank at its request.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower's program of
reforestation and protection of forest resources, and consists of
the following Parts:
A.   Smallholder Tree Farming in Project Area A
1.   DBP
(a) Provision of credit and technical services for
tree farm development to about 7,400 beneficiaries
occupying about 28,600 ha of land.
(b) Provision of motorcycles, other vehicles and office
equipment to DBP branches servicing Project Area A.
2.   BPI
Provision of facilities in the Ilocos region to increase
the capacity to facilitate production and distribution
of Giant Ipil Ipil seedlings to beneficiaries.
3.   PCARR
Research in fields referred to in Section 3.13 of
this Agreement.
B.   Plantation Development in Project Area B
1.   BFD
(a) Provision of nursery facilities, including work-
sheds, irrigation and imported seed.
(b) Development of about 3,000 ha of trial Pinus
caribaea plantations as the first stage of a planting
program and surveys for some further 10,000 ha of
planting in Abra.
(c) Construction and maintenance of forest roads,
firebreaks, watchtowers and headquarter buildings,
including staff quarters and supporting facilities.


﻿- 17 -
(d) Provision of technical services and incremental
staff.
2.   DNR
(a) Strengthening of the management, operations and
finances of the DNR Natural Resources Projects Prepara-
tion Unit.
(b) Study of wood industries development.
3.   DA
Strengthening of the management, operations and finances
of the DA Agricultural Projects Preparation Unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1983
through   June 15, 1997                        265,000
On December 15, 1997                                315,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.35%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.10%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.     Equipment and Macerials (including vehicles and fertilizer)
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereunder, equipment and
materials for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   (a) For other than Part A.1 of the Project, contracts
for procurement of equipment and materials, including
procurement of fertilizer, each estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $50,000 shall be carried out in
accordance with competitive bidding procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) Pinus caribaea seed shall be procured after negotiations
following solicitation of quotations from suppliers.
B.   Civil Works
Contracts for civil works under Part B of the Project each
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000, shall be
carried out in accordance with competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 21 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operating Policies and Procedures
A.   Subsidiary Loan
Repayment                :    20 years, including
5 years of grace
Rate of Interest               7.9% per annum on
outstanding
amounts
Exchange risk                 the Borrower shall bear it
B.   Sub-loans
DBP shall, in making sub-loans, utilize the form of sub-loan
agreement agreed upon with the Bank. The sub-loan agreement
shall provide, among other things, for the following:
1.   An interest rate of not less than twelve per cent (12%)
a year on the amount withdrawn and o--standing on
sub-loans secured by land, and of not less than fourteen
per cent (14%) on all sub-loans not secured by land;
penal interest at the rate of three per cent (3%) per
month in any amount in arrears of 60 days or more.
2.   Sub-loans shall be secured in accordance with DBP
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   (a) Sub-loans shall be extended to beneficiaries with
Investment Projects each covering an area of not
more than 50 ha;
(b) Not more than 25% of the amount of sub-loans shall
be extended to beneficiaries with Investment
Projects each covering an area of more than 25 ha.
4.   Sub-loans shall be disbursed substantially in accordance
with the specifications set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule.
5.   With regard to the areas of about 5,000 ha selected by
the Borrower referred to in Section 1.02 (j) of this


﻿- 23 -
Agreement, DBP and the Bank shall be satisfied of the
financial viability of tree farm development in such
areas, and that the lands so selected are at best only
marginally suited to the development of agricultural
crops.
C.   Memorandum of Agreement
The terms and conditions of each Memorandum of Agreement
shall include the following undertakings:
1.   DBP:
(a) Processing of sub-loan applications, administra-
tion disbursement and repayment; and
(b) Investment Project appraisal and supervision.
2.   Participating Company:
(a) Purchase all wood and leafmeal production of
beneficiaries;
(b) Pay for tree farm products at the prevailing
competitive market price, and in any case a minimum
stumpage price of P15 per cubic meter for wood-
products, and PO.20 per kilogram for leaves;
(c) Review annually such minimum price, starting
March 31, 1979, and to revise it, if necessary,
to ensure that producers can obtain a reasonable
return on their investment;
(d) Provide tree seedlings at cost to beneficiaries,
as required by them to carry out their Investment
Project; and
(e) Provide beneficiaries with adequate technical
assistance.
D.   BPI Memorandum of Agreement
The terms and conditions of the BPI Memorandum of Agreement
shall include the following undertakings:


﻿- 24 -
1. DBP:
(a) Processing of sub-loans;
(b) Provide BPI periodically with a list of sub-loan
applications;
(c) Consider BPI technical assistance in sub-loan
application reviews;
(d) Annual monitoring of Investment Projects; and
(e) Provide BPI with current data on Giant Ipil Ipil
production.
2.   BPI:
(a) Establishment of Giant Ipil Ipil nurseries at
selected sites, and provide means to transport
seedlings to beneficiaries;
(b) Inform prospective beneficiaries through DBP
of the availability of BPI technical assistance;
(c) Submit to DBP reports on Investment Projects; and
(d) Assist DBP in monitoring Investment Projects.


﻿- 25 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Sub-loan Disbursements
and Repayment Terms
------------Loan Amount (P/ha)------------
Giant Ipil-Ipil     Albizzia and Others
Release      Firewood                 Particle Board
Timing    & Purpose    & charcoal    Leafmeal       & pulpwood
0     First Release
Land clearing      200         400              250
6     Second Release
weeks   Planting         1,250        1,100             400
Fertilizing
Weeding
3     Third Release
months  Weeding             400         300*            300
6     Fourth Release
months  Weeding             150          -              250
Total Loan Amount   2,000       1,800            1,200
Grace period        4 years     1 year           7 years
Subsequent
repayment
period            4 years     1 year           7 years
*    Third Release for leafmeal production comes at 12 months.


