Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25476 CO
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
FOR
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
February 20, 2003
Colombia-Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA-FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 20 February 2003)
Currency Unit        Peso
2,903.00 Pesos        US$1
0.92 Euros        US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
SELECTED ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATPA       Andean Trade Preference Act           IDF        Institutional Development Facility
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy           IMF        International Monetary Fund
CIT        Corporate Income Tax                  ISA         International Standards on Auditing
CONFIS     Consejo Superior de Polftica Fiscal:  IVA        Impuesto al Valor Agregado (Value Added Tax)
Superior Council for Fiscal Policy    LDP        Letter of Development Policy
CONPES     National Commission for Economic      LIL         Learning And Innovation Loan
and Social Policy                     MAPF       Proyecto Modernizaci6n De La Administracion
CPAR       Country Procuremnent Assessment                   Piblica Financiera (Public Financial
Report                                           Management Project)
DIAN       Directorate of National Taxes and     MHCP       Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Customs                               MTEF       Medium Term Expenditure Framework
DNP        National Planning Office              PBG         Policy Based Guarantee
EUR        Euro Currency                         PFMP       Public Financial Management Project
FIAL       Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional  PSAL       Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
Adjustment Loan                       RAS        Social Support Network
FOREC      Fondo para la Reconstrucci6n y el     SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
Desarrollo Social del Eje Cafetero:   SFAL       Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan
Fund for the Reconstruction of the    SINERGIA   Evaluation System for Public Management
Coffee Region                         SNGS       Subnational Governments
FRL        Fiscal Reformn Law                    SSAL        Social Sector Adjustment Loan
FSL        Fixed Spread Loan                     TAL         Technical Assistance Loan
GDP        Gross domestic product                VAT        Value added tax
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank       WBG        World Bank Group
IBRD
Vice President                     David de Ferranti
Chief Economist:                   Guillermo Perry
Director, LCSPR                    Ernesto May
Sector Manager, LCSPS              Ronald Myers
Country Director:                  Isabel Guerrero
Acting Sector Lead Economist:      Steven B. Webb
Task Manager                       Fernando Rojas
Team Production Support:           Patricia Mendez
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs/Mmes. Rojas, Sangines, Leyton, Frank, del Villar
(LCSPS). The team was led by Messrs. Rojas (LCSPS), and Steven Webb (LCC1C) and worked under the general
guidance of Mr. Ronald Myers (Sector Manager, LCSPS), Mr. Ernesto May (Director, LCSPR) and Isabel Guerrero
(Director, LCC1C).



REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL S;TRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FIAL)
Program Document
Table of Contents
I.       Context of the Operation ...........................................................             2
A. Relevant Socio-economic Background ............................................................2
B. Fiscal Rigidities: The Key Constraint to Effective Public Policy ...............   .................. 5
C.   Past Government Actions ............................................................7
D.  The  Challenges   Ahead                              ........................................................... 11
II.      The Fiscal and Institutional Reform          Program ...................................................... 13
A. Revenue Rigidities and Tax Reform ...........................................................  15
- Fiscal Revenue
B. Fiscal Responsibility ...........................................................             19
C. Expenditure Rigidities and Institutional Reform ............................................................ 20
- Horizontal Reforms
- Vertical Reforms
III.     The Proposed Programmatic Operation and Loan .                         ............................................. 32
A. The Bank's Assistance Strategy ...........................................................    32
B. Objectives and Description of the Program       ......   ...................................................... 34
C. The Proposed Loan ...........................................................                 35
D. Subsequent Loans ...........................................................                  37
E. Fiduciary Policies ............................................................               38
F.   Benefits ............................................................                       39
G. Risks ...........................................................                             44
Annex I.     Letter of Development Policy ...........................................................  46
Annex II     International Monetary Fund Relations Note ........................................................... 64
Annex m. Policy Matrix ...........................................................                   67
Annex IV. Colombia at a Glance ...........................................................           79
APPENDIX I:       Institutions for Fiscal Responsibility ...........................................................   82
APPENDIX IIX  :   Tax Policy Reform in Colombia: Challenges and Achievements .................... 85
Figures
Figure 1.         Fiscal Deficit 1994-2001 ....................................................... 4
Figure 2.         NFPS Primary Balance, Real GDP Growth, and Poverty Rates (1990-2001) ..14
Figure 3.         Timeline of Changes in Tax Policy .......................................................   16
Figure 4.         Accumulated Fiscal Cost of Contingent Liabilities Against the State ............... 26
Figure 5 & 6.     NFPS Expenditure and Revenues Excluding Interest Payments.
Alternative Reform Scenarios (2000-2006) ...................................................... 40
Figure 7.         NFPS Primary Balance: Alternative Reform Scenarios. 2000-2006 .40
Figure 8.         Net Public Debt. Alternative Reform     Scenarios. 2000-2006 ............................. 41



Tables
Table 1.  Colombia - National Taxes and Payroll Contributions .......................................... 17
Table 2.  Key Measures of the 2002 Tax Reform (Law 788) ................................................. 17
Table 3.  Renovation of Public Administration: Selected Vertical and Horizontal Dimensions
................................................................................................................................. 20
Table 4.  Contingent Liabilities -Off Balance Sheet Items ..................................................... 27
Table 5.  Reforms Supported by the FIAL First Loan (US$300 million) ................. .............. 36
Table 6.  Public Sector Fiscal Balances. Scenario with Reforms 2001-2006 ........................ 42
Box
Box 1.    SFAL Contribution to Fiscal Stabilization and Expenditure Flexibility .................. 10
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC FiSCAL AND
INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
1.     This program document proposes the first of four loans using a Programmatic
Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) instrument, and will support short- and medium-
term reforms with twofold objectives: First, to help attain the substantial fiscal
adjustment required to ensure macroeconomic stability and ease the significant fiscal
rigidities that make the implementation of public policy extremely difficult; and Second,
to improve the provision of public services and establish the institutional basis for higher
efficiency and accountability in public expenditure. The program would consist of four
single-tranche loans, adding to a notional amount of US$900 million in total. Decisions
about whether and when the subsequent loans would go forward will depend on the
progress of the reform program.
2.     This document attempts to highlight the situation in which the recently elected
Government of Colombia finds itself and the issues that this program seeks to address.
The incoming administration is faced by mounting social demands to provide essential
services - among them, and most importantly, security and peace. It is also faced by a
persistent form of budgetary constraint that prevents it from having adequate resources to
address these demands: structural rigidities in the tax and public expenditure systems,
which make it extremely difficult to allocate scarce resources in an efficient and effective
way.   The proposed program    will support the reforms necessary to attain fiscal
adjustment and will constitute an important first step towards liberating Colombian
public finance from structural rigidities. The proposed program will also support and
help address important issues of administrative efficiency and public sector
modernization, which will continue in the subsequent loans of the program.
3.     This program supports the policy agenda that the administration of President
Uribe has undertaken to resolve Colombia's long and costly internal conflict while at the
same time reversing fiscal deterioration so as to safeguard macroeconomic stability.
President Uribe, who was elected with a strong mandate in the first ballot, has been
gaining even greater internal support through promoting reforms as well as fighting
courageously against terrorism. These reforms include the approval of a strong tax
iii



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
package, congressional approval of a referendum, important pension reform legislation,
labor market reform, and measures to strengthen the financial sector, and new powers
granted to the President to streamline public administration.
I.    CONTEXT OF THE OPERATION
A. RELEVANT SOCIOECONoMIc BACKGROUND
4.    Macroeconomic Performance. Despite its long tradition of very prudent and
successful macroeconomic management, including good debt management, Colombia's
economic performance began to deteriorate in the early 1990's and has continued to
stagnate, growing by only 1.4 percent in 2001 and about 1.6 percent in 2002. Major
domestic obstacles to a more robust recovery include weak domestic demand associated
with high unemployment, currently at almost 15 percent in urban areas, and historically
low private investment levels. Moreover, exports, which had led the recovery in 2000,
have languished over the past year due to a combination of domestic and international
factors. This has in turn affected the performance of manufacturing, much of the
production of which is directed toward exports as a result of weak demand at home.
Sluggish domestic demand and worsening internal security conditions are reflected in the
continued weakness of private investment.
5.    Private GDP has grown little since the mid-1990s, and private investment has
deteriorated from its peak of nearly 12 percent of GDP in 1994 to under 6 percent today.
Total investment now stands at about 14 percent of GDP, incompatible with what the
resumption of significant growth would require. While government consumption grew
by two thirds between 1994 and 2002, household consumption remained basically
unchanged.
6.    Colombia's traditional exports fell by over one-fourth in 2001 and 2002, because
of declining petroleum production (despite the recent rise of world oil prices), historically
low international coffee prices, difficulties in the important Venezuelan market, and the
real appreciation of the peso in 2001 and early 2002. While the country's non-traditional
exports, mainly manufactured goods and cut flowers, performed well in recent years and
now amount to over half of total merchandise exports, the appreciation of the peso in
early 2002 and the economic slowdown in the United States, Venezuela, and other
Andean countries affected them negatively in 2002. Declining imports have, however,
maintained a surplus in the trade balance. The total external current account had a deficit
of about 1.7 percent of GDP in 2002.
7.    Inflation declined in 2002, assisted by sluggish demand, and was about 7 percent
over the last 12 months. This allowed the Central Bank to reduce interest rates, which,
along with enhanced prudential regulation, helped the financial sector rebound from the
significant crisis of 1998-1999.
8.    Fiscal Performance. Over the past half-decade, new realities have emerged in
Colombia's fiscal domain, including significant deficits and large future fiscal liabilities.
The rapid expansion of the public sector over the previous decade, from spending one
fourth of GDP in 1990 to over one third of GDP today, combined with growing
4



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
Figure 1: Fiscal Deficit 1994-2001
Source: Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
2.0 -
as 0-                  a 2.1-<17_1
00 -03                  0 __                            ^4
8 -3.0 -- 
IL.-4.0-                                                   1
-5.0
-6.0 -
-7.0
1994   1995   1996  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
-    eNatlonal Government Deficit  -U- Decentralized Sector Deficit  -  Total Deficit NFPS
liabilities, particularly on the pensions front, have led to significant and persistent deficits
of a structural nature. As public spending rapidly outstripped the sector's revenue-
generating capacity, much of the fiscal deficit was financed with debt, both domestic and
external. Today, total public sector debt in Colombia stands at about 56 percent of GDP.
The estimated deficit of the combined public sector for 2002 is 4 percent of GDP, largely
due to election year spending, higher military outlays, and a weakening of the social
security institutions. On security spending alone, the administration estimates that it will
need an additional 1 percent of GDP per year.
9.    Nevertheless, the Uribe Administration has stressed its commitment to continue
the fiscal adjustment efforts of the previous administration. On December 20, 2002,
Congress approved a strong tax package estimated to yield an increase of tax collections
of about 1 percent of GDP in 2003, 1.2 percent in 2004, and 1.7 percent of GDP by 2005.
In addition, Congress recently passed two key structural reforms: a pension reform to
address the looming deficits of the social security sector, Colombia's largest future fiscal
liability; and a labor reform to increase flexibility in Colombia's rigid labor market.
10.   The fiscal deficit for the Non-Financial Public Sector is expected to come down to
2.5 percent of GDP in 2003 and 2.1 percent in 2004. Financing has been planned so that
the total public debt will start being reduced in 2004. As a precaution, the Government
requested a Stand-By agreement from the IMF, which was recently approved by the IMF
Board.
11.   The External Environment. Colombia's vulnerability to external shocks has
risen in the past year as a result of several factors: increased violence domestically and
uncertainty about the future path of the internal conflict; the deterioration in sovereign
debt spreads (though some recovery has been seen in recent months); the worsening of
market sentiment toward Latin America; problems in Venezuela, the largest market for
Colombia's nontraditional exports; and an uncertain outlook for the U.S. economy,
Colombia's main trading partner. However, given its floating exchange rate, falling
5



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
inflation and adequate international reserve levels, Colombia should be well equipped to
deal with moderate external shocks if it undertakes the necessary fiscal adljustment.
12.    Poverty. In Colombia, there has been a close positive correlation between fiscal
balance, growth and poverty reduction (see Figure 2). During periods of positive growth
(and fiscal balance), Colombia enjoyed substantial declines in poverty (even though
inequality increased). Specifically, from 1988 to 1995, as GDP grew on average at about
4.2 percent per year, poverty rates declined from about 65 to 60 percent of the population.
This reduction, and the government's efforts that helped achieved it, were completely
wiped out by the 1998-99 recession. Poverty levels today are not substantially different
from what they were in the late 1980s. More immediately, unemployment climbed to,
and has since remained at, almost 15.7 percent of the labor force at the national level. Put
differently, the evidence suggests that sustainable growth and fiscal balance has been
Colombia's best social safety net. A fiscal balance program that increases revenue and
makes expenditure more efficient, as well as within prudent limits, is a sine qua non for
Colombia's attaining the human development Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
13.    Insecurity and Violence. Colombia has captured headlines around the world for
its alarming indices of violence. Since the 1980's, the multidimensional problem of
violence has become more widespread and is exacting an increasing economic and social
toll. Recently, trends in violence have worsened and are now among the highest in the
world.
Figure 2. NFPS Primary Balance, Real GDP Growth, and Poverty Rates
(1990-2001)
_jt-                                            _                 -4
Poverty Rate3
65
55O                                                     - 
C                   1991-1996               1997-2001
50             I            I           I           I             -1
1990                     1995                    2000
_ Average Real GDP Growth Rate
- Average NFPS Primry Balance (Percentage of GDP)
Poverty Rate
14.   From 1999 onwards, the number of attacks on petroleum infrastructure increased
by 160 percent, on electric infrastructure by 680 percent, and kidnappings by 126 percent
over the average of the previous 13 years. It is estimated that the conflict reduces the
annual economic growth rate by at least 2 percent. There is consensus around the
6



Annex I: Leuer of Development Policy
unacceptability of the current levels of violence, which translated into an overwhelming
electoral mandate for the Uribe administration and its determined stance to restore
security. The current conflicts places the country in a particularly vulnerable and difficult
position. The repercussions of the armed conflict on the economy and the overwhelming
social demand for its settlement make peace the paramount priority of the government's
public policy agenda'.  As crucial complements to the direct counter-insurgency
measures, the government recognizes the need to sustain fiscal balances and improve the
quality and efficiency of public service.
B. FISCAL RIGIDITIES: TIE KEY CONSTRAINT TO EFFECTIVE PUBLIC POLICY
15.   The fundamental issue that constrains the effective implementation of public
policy in Colombia is the inability of the Government to access the necessary budgetary
resources to attend policy priorities. Regardless of the political commitment to promote
peace and development, there is little that can be done without resources. Budgetary
shortfalls are clearly not uncommon; fiscal adjustment is a worldwide reality. However,
the nature of the Colombian fiscal imbalance is particularly difficult to unravel, and fiscal
rigidities play a critical part in the picture.
16.   Fiscal rigidities, in the broad sense, incorporate a number of concepts that cover
areas such as tax policy and administration, budget management, civil service, judicial
decisions, and administrative processes such as public procurement and contracting and
asset management. The common thread that connects these diverse areas is that they all
generate an entrenched expenditure that is difficult to reduce, produce excessive costs
derived from fundamental inefficiencies, and/or prevent a revenue source from reaching
its full potential.
17.   Some of the most important types of fiscal rigidities that have hampered the
implementation of public policy in Colombia are:
*    Legal and judicial expenditure entitlements and revenue earmarks that create
permanent rigidities in public spending;
*    Generous tax expenditures-in the form of exemptions, tax credits or zero tax
rates- which weaken revenue elasticity, reduce the tax base and damage tax
neutrality and tax efficiency; and
*    Opportunities for the capture of portions of public spending due to administrative
weaknesses of the public sector, such as the complex and fragmented budgetary
process, deficient asset management and legal protection of State interests,
inadequate public procurement rules and institutions, and profuse entitlement-
based spending that is not adequately monitored and evaluated.
'. It has been estimated, for instance, that war-related additional public expenditures will reach 1.5 percent
of GDP by 2006.
7



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
18.   Taken together with the economic contraction and the instability generated by the
armed conflict, these factors explain why Colombia has had such difficulty in making the
necessary fiscal adjustment and mobilizing resources adequately for the implementation
of public policy. It'is clear that an effort to increase revenues is not sufficient; reducing
expenditure layouts and strengthening the capacity of the Government to manage the
budget according to priorities is a necessary condition. Furthermore, areas where
efficiency gains can be achieved or under-utilized assets more wisely used, must be
explored and exploited.
19.   During the previous decade the country tried to introduce expenditure flexibility
and enhance efficiency via state decentralization, incipient evaluation measures or
privatization and contracting out with the plivate sector. Those efforts have not fully
reached their objectives, due to: i) resistance from powerful nation-wide trade unions to
the transfer of personnel to subnational governments, ii) constitutional or legal budget
entitlements defended by rent seekers, iii) growing court and arbitration decisions that
condemn the. state to make payments beyond present budget capacity; iv) fragmented
procurement arrangements that allow for sector capture of state contracts, and/or v) weak
government capacity for contracting, execution, evaluation, monitoring or otherwise
delivering efficient services and protecting state interests.
20.   Pre-committed expenditures (wages and salaries, inter-government transfers,
social security transfers, interest, budget carryover of the central administration and in the
unpaid bills of selected non-financial public enterprises) amountedl to a substantial
portion of Central Government Primary Spending in 2002. Such a restricted fiscal
position made Colombia particularly vulnerable and ill-prepared to respond to the
economic recession that has unfolded since 1998. Moreover, it has left scarce budgetary
room to respond to new government priorities regarding security, rural development and
social expenditures.
21.   Governance consequences of fiscal imd administrative rigidities. Revenue and
expenditure rigidities that cause inefficiency in allocation and production of public
services also weaken governance and impose a heavy toll on the state's capacity to reach
conflict-ridden areas.
22.   This means that the technical design for policy implementation needs to take into
account the capacity of corporatist interests to undermine reform. In addition, other
forces lie outside the formal political system and often attempt to influence policy
through non-transparent ways. Given this broader political environment, the Colombian
public administration has faced difficulties in passing or implementing economic and
political policy reforms critical for longer term sustainability of the country. The lack of
such reforms threatens to seriously disrupt social services and safety nets and exacerbate
the undesirable social consequences of the internal conflict, economic recession, and the
slow growth of the last few years.
23.   The current government recognized the importance of, and obtained a new
political mandate for taking decisive policy measures to add flexibility to fiscal
management, not only to make the response to social demands possible but also to enable
8



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
the country to weather future external shocks more resiliently. As discussed later in this
report, the key political and governance requirements are in place for a substantial
overhaul of the legacy of years of misguided corporatist public policy.
C. PAST GOVERNMENT ACTIONS
24.   Past government responses. All recent governments have attempted to reverse
these negative trends. However, the responses primarily addressed revenue and were
partially ineffective with respect to the expenditure side, that is, reform of the public
sector. In order to deal with the immediate effects of the recession, the then-incoming
Pastrana Administration formulated a three-year stabilization program for the period
1999 through 2002 based on increased exchange rate flexibility, fiscal stabilization, and
the implementation of structural reforms, including financial sector restructuring, tax
reform and privatization.
25.   The international financial community mobilized to support that program, and in
December 1999 the IMF Board of Directors approved a three-year, SDRI.96 billion
Extended Arrangement Facility-the first of its kind for Colombia. This arrangement
was entered into with a clear understanding on the part of the Colombian authorities that:
(a) it was precautionary in nature, (b) it was meant to send a confidence-building signal to
international markets, and (c) it would not be drawn upon unless there was a pressing
balance-of-payments need. The authorities proceeded along the precautionary path by
not drawing upon the arrangement -despite the deteriorating external environment-with
a view to avoiding possible wrong signals to the markets.
26.   To deal with excessive spending, previous administrations had launched several
public sector reform programs. Yet these initiatives-during 1992 and 1994; during
1998 and 1999; and in 2000-did not fully reach their desired outcomes. The limited
success of these past reforms was primarily due to: (a) some reforms, especially those
between 1998 and 1999 -though explicitly focused on expenditure reduction-- faced legal
or political obstacles; and (b) other reforms were not primarily targeted to expenditure
reduction or to effectively tackle the inner roots of rigid growth in fiscal transfers or legal
claims against the state. After these attempts at reform, the Colombian public sector still
requires a significant effort to reduce inefficiencies, align responsibilities, foster
transparency and improve management and accountability.
27.   From  the point of view  of reform  management, the limited success of
administrative reform efforts in Colombia can be largely explained by the lack of
consensus, limited involvement of-leading to lack of ownership by-potential
beneficiaries, inadequate monitoring or evaluation disclosure, and policy discontinuity
between one government and the next. Successful public sector reforms calls for a
realistic strategy for implementation and sustainability-an approach that is built on
stable political consensus, ownership at various levels of the administration, and the
mobilization of civil society in support of the reforms.
9



Annex 1 Letter of Development Policy
28.    World Bank support. The World Bank has joined the stabilization efforts and
the country's quest for minimizing tax expenditure and public spending rigidities.
Beginning in 1999, four Bank projects have sought to tackle the structural factors that are
at the bottom of Colombia's weakening fiscal balances and limited efficiency in
allocation and service delivery: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, MAFP II, SFAL and
SECAL I.
29.    In November 1999, the Bank Board approved an EUR482 million Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan, the second tranche of which was converted, in February 2001,
to a Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) operation of about EUR238 million, further
reinforcing credibility in international markets.
30.    In 2001, the Bank approved MAFP II, a Technical Assistance Project for
modernization of revenue and financial administration and public sector evaluation.2
MAFP II set ambitious goals in Colombia's road map toward overall public sector
modernization. The core of this project is the establishment of a framework for improved
public expenditure management and increased transparency and accountability for
outcomes, as well as substantial modernization of the tax and customs administrations.
31.    One of its elements, intended to integrate financial management (Sistema
Integrado de Informacion Financiera, SUF), is still being implemented. The results to
date, indicate that it will contribute to enforcing hard budget constraints, upgrading
budget and treasury planning, producing reliable accounting data in real time, and
ultimately  enhancing  Government resource allocation.    A   second element-the
evaluation component (Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Resultados, SINERGIA)-
should deliver state-of-the art, objective performance and result assessments when it is
fully developed. It is also expected to provide the inputs needed for transforming
planning, budgeting and public administration generally into greater result-oriented,
performance-based operations. SINERGIA could ultimately bring Colombia to the level
of Chile and Brazil-the two most advanced Latin American countries in public sector
evaluation.
32.    Both SIIF and SINERGIA have faced circumstances which have slowed down
their implementation. As far as SINERGIA is concerned, despite its conceptual and
technical advances, structural features of the Colombian budget have become significant
obstacles for its complete implementation. The incentive framework around public sector
policymaking is not conducive to the efficient and effective use of resources. Public
sector managers do not have the flexibility in the allocation of resources to implement
2 Public Financial Management Project H (2001) is a follow-up to the Bank-financed MAFP I, and has
two components. First, it proposes to strengthen Colombian revenue administration to foster voluntary
compliance and revenue collection and combat tax evasion and smuggling. It will do this through
organizational, managerial, and procedural changes and improving the policy and the legal framework
for revenue administration. Second, it aims to strengthen public expenditure management at the central
government level, to facilitate achievement of fiscal and national development objectives, improve cost
effectiveness of public services, and increase transparency and accountability. It will do this through
improving macro-programming and formulation and monitoring of the budget; strengthening budget
execution, treasury, and public credit and accounting; improving the evaluation of results of public
expenditure; and strengthening public procurement and contracting.
10



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
public policy and therefore the integrated financial information or evaluation assessments
are not yet feeding a results oriented framework
33.    Furthermore, the budgetary rigidities discussed earlier impose a severe limitation
on the capacity of these instruments to develop fully and have a real impact on the
quantity and quality of public expenditure and on fiscal stabilization efforts in general.
The present institutional framework also calls for separate preparation and execution of
the current and investment columns of the expenditure budget. Therefore, as elaborated
below, coordinating these two key part of the budget process will be essential to
implement sector or service efficiency measures-or to adequately introduce result-
driven budgets and adequate evaluation.
34.    The Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL) of 2001-02 further contributed to
the country's stabilization efforts through the measures described in Box 1. It supported
the Government's program for reaching an inflection point in the path of fiscal
accounts-an essential first step toward achieving full fiscal sustainability, economic
growth, and poverty reduction. It strengthened fiscal accounts by: (a) rationalizing the
system of transfers to sub-national governments (especially education-related transfers)
and imposing more market-driven and binding budget constraints on their finances; (b)
establishing mechanisms to arrest the exploding cost and inefficiency of public health
services (particularly the cost of public hospitals and the health arm of the Social Security
Institute); (c) advancing the reorganization of public agencies and their current
expenditures; (d) halting the accumulation of pension-related contingent liabilities; and
(e) setting up a better system for managing public debt. The combination of measures to
improve intergovernmental fiscal relations, rationalize and reallocate public sector
expenditures, and improve financial management of assets and liabilities of the public
sector helped to bring about both a more sustainable fiscal path in the long run-a
necessary condition for sustaining economic growth and poverty reduction-and greater
efficiency in allocation of public resources in the social sectors-a necessary condition
for improving the provision of key public services, particularly education, health and
pensions.
35.    SFAL supported ceilings on transfers to subnational governments that were aimed
at restraining growth in spending and reducing the moral hazard from the deficits of
subnational governments and decentralized social security institutions. By so doing,
SFAL supported the first step towards reducing expenditure rigidities. Supplementary
measures are still needed to reduce budget entitlements promptly and effectively.3 The
next step is to reduce and eliminate powerful rent-seekers' influence in the actual
allocation of expenditures and tax exemptions. Since most budget rigidities are enshrined
in the Constitution or in the laws, that next step requires legal or constitutional measures
that can only be enacted when governments are backed by multi-party coalitions and
country-wide political support -such as the support expressed in the elections and
3. Some of the reforms-although urgently needed-can only be expected to produce fiscal relief in the
medium or long term. This is the case of the pension reform, just approved by Congress, whose positive
impact on the fiscal accounts will only be felt 5 or 6 years from now. Transformation of the current
pay-as-you-go system in a provision-based system usually creates additional fiscal demands in the early
years of the reform while fiscal benefits come later-in the form of saving the country from the
potentially devastating effect of a pension crisis or government bail out of the pension system.



Annex I: Letter of.Development Policy
maintained since for President Uribe. Besides, the reformns themselves can only be
sustained if stakeholders (other than traditional rent-seekers) and civil society at large are
involved in the public sector reforrn agenda through disclosure, greater evidence of
protection of state interests and tangible improvements in the day-to-day priority
concerns of the population.
Box 1. SFAL Contribution to Fiscal Stabilization and Expenditure Flexibility
Supported the constitutional amendment of 2001 which simplified the system of inter-government
fiscal transfers into one single Sistema General de Participaciones and limited the rate of growth of:
(a) total transfers to subnational governments to last year's inflation plus 2 percentage points; and (b)
the central admninistration's operational expenditures to last year's inflation plus 1.5 (percentage
points).
* Supported the new regime for debt and boirrowing by government agencies (Decree 2540 of
2001), which requires credit ratings by authorized institutions and includes provisions for capital-risk
weighting. In addition, SFAL supported application of Law 617 that requires that no territorial entities
receive further bailouts or guarantees of their debt after July 1, 2002.
*   Supported acceleration of transfer of education responsibilities and resources to municipalities.
Law 715 of 2001 that amended Law 60 of 1993 introduced capitation formulas for education transfers
and automatically certified large municipalities, which are now recipients of education transfers and
are held accountable for education results. Similarly, SFAL supported design of performance matrices
for each certified rnunicipality that signed an inter-government performance agreement with the
National Goverrnent for enhancing quality and coverage of education.
36.    In the case of transfers to the education sector, for instance, SFAL supported the
issuance of a new law that changes the calculation of the transfer from the current payroll
(supply)-base to a per-student (demand) base. SFAL also advanced the preparation of
inter-government result agreements that would make municipal authorities fully
accountable for increasing coverage and enhancing efficiency in education. But the
initial implementation, expansion and further institutionalization of the proposed result-
based inter-government agreements will take several more years to bear much fruit.
Likewise, it is still premature to evaluate the impact of the new performance management
contract between the Instituto de los Seguros Sociales and the Ministiy of Finance that
was also supported by SFAL. Moreover, SFAL's ultimate fiscal benefits are apt to be
offset by the unexpected surge of fiscal requirements to pay for legal decisions against
the state.
37.    The social sector adjustment loan (SECAL) approved in 2002 has successfully
introduced greater flexibility in health and education expenditures. It sought to enhance
the efficiency of inter-government transfers for education by changing their governing
criteria from supply-side bases to demand-driven allocations. SECAL also has aimed at
overcoming legal and constitutional rigidities by effectively transferring human and
financial resource management to the local level. These are steps in the right direction
since monitoring and evaluation of as well as incentives for teachers need to be managed
at that level. For now, the central government is being equipped to monitor results
municipality by municipality while local governments evaluate school by school.
38.    The expected SECAL II, in addition to other elements of the Government's
reform program, will face the subsequent challenges in the path towards raising
efficiency and accountability for the country's substantial transfer for education.
12



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Subsequent challenges are threefold: i) to ensure effective implementation of Law 715
that transforms fiscal transfer from a supply-side basis to a demand-based transfer; ii) to
enhance accountability of subnational governments through better defining education
responsibilities of each layer of government, and iii) to apply result-based incentives and
monitoring to ensure higher efficiency of current fiscal transfers in terms of coverage and
quality.
39.   Four main lessons come from recent Bank operations that have supported the
country's quest for raising the efficiency of public expenditures, moving towards result-
oriented budget and minimizing tax expenditure and public spending rigidities: i)
reducing budget entitlements is a pre-requisite for higher flexibility in expenditure
allocation and service production functions; ii) further involvement of civil society at
large is needed to increase political support for reforms that impinge on interests that
have been long entrenched in the country's budget; iii) simpler, targeted and specialized
budget reporting is needed to involve congress, political parties and communities in the
discussion and approval of a more flexible budget; iv) social efficiency gains from the
decentralization of health and education can only be achieved when subnational
governments are empowered to manage productions and are fully accountable for service
delivery; and when central government fiscal transfers come with clear conditions and
incentives for achieving results.
D. THE CHALLENGES AHEAD
40.   Results of the economic reform program and remaining challenges. The
implementation of the stabilization program in the last few years has produced some
positive results-key indicators such as growth and inflation have improved; the extemal
position and financial system have been strengthened; key legal and constitutional
reforms geared to reducing the inflexible growth of inter-govemment and social security
transfers have been passed by Congress, and compliance under the past IMF and World
Bank operations has been satisfactory.  Yet, a number of unresolved issues and
challenges remain and require attention, especially regarding the fiscal situation and the
working of the public sector.
41.   Fiscal reform challenges. The immediate objective for the government of
Colombia is to strengthen the fiscal accounts. This will contribute to: i) promoting a
more positive atmosphere for new investment and consolidating of the observed, albeit
timid, recovery of growth, ii) creating enough fiscal room for financing this government's
top priorities in a fiscally responsible way; and iii) reducing the crowding out effect of
government over-borrowing in domestic markets. This will also have a positive impact
on poverty reduction, since, as mentioned previously, the link between growth and
poverty in effect dictates Colombia's economic policy agenda over the next few years.
42.   In spite of important progress, the initial round of stabilization-related reforms did
not attend to some important structural, sector-specific imbalances continue to weaken,
the country's fiscal position. If not properly addressed, these weaknesses will further
push down economic growth; indeed, growth has recovered more slowly and tax
revenues have therefore not met expectations. Failure to restore peace and the rule of law
13



Annex !: Letter of Development Policy
could further undermine investor confidence in Colombia; and external shocks could
restrict Colombia's access to international capital markets even more. The financing
scenarios for 2003 call for significant foreign funding, of which an important proportion
will be lending by multilateral institutions. In brief, in the absence of further structural
fiscal strengthening, macroeconomic vulnerability will remain and external or domestic
shocks could easily lead to a sharp rise in poverty.
43.   Public sector and institutional reform challenges. The institutional factors that
underlie today's fiscal problems are not new in Colombia. Enhancing efficiency and
accountability of public administration appears to be difficult when public resources are
pre-committed to specific interest groups, without regarding the country's changing
priorities or fiscal situation.
44.   Fiscal problems that long plagued the country have intensified and become more
apparent since the end of the Frente Nacional (National Front) in 1974. The National
Front (1958-1974), a bi-partisan concert of the two major political parties primarily
geared to suppress inter-party fighting and rural violence, expanded the size of
government and created a number of expenditure rigidities that were later confirmed or
increased by the Constitution of .1991. Although the Front ensured some policy
cohesiveness and party and fiscal discipline, this success, has long been dissipated.
Fragmented political factions have multiplied special interest pressures on limited
budgets. Trade unions and other political clienteles gained independent leverage which
they abused for their parochial "captive sectors." Weak national administrations and
populist courts gave in too readily to demands on budgets, contracts and fiscal transfers.
45.   State capture has remained-and has often been exacerbated by-the introduction
of contemporary tools of state modernization. Prominently, the extensive movement
towards decentralization has not fully achieved its intent to improve public service
delivery. At the same time, inter-government fiscal transfers have become politically
difficult to reverse. The intermediate level of government-which receives a substantial
part of the. total public budget-is still largely not accountable, neither to the central
government nor to the local citizens. As a result of these and other forces, including the
country's internal war and drug-trafficking, the weakening of Colombia's governance
became perhaps the single most important cause of the country's fiscal and administrative
deterioration.
46.   Facing this situation, the relatively independent Mr. Alvaro Uribe received a clear
mandate, with multi-party votes from the electorate. It is to re-establish security,
eradicate political corruption, improve public services, bolster fiscal discipline and bring
the internal conflict to an end. Significantly, in December 2002, the government was still
as strong in the polls as when it was elected in May 2002. The congressional sessions
that ended in December 2002-and ensured the passage of an unprecedented number of
legal reforms (including tax, labor and pension reforms) and advancement of
constitutional reforms (both via popular referendum  and via ordinary Congress
approval)-did not appear to diminish people's high regard for the President. On the
contrary, those sessions further demonstrated the capacity of Mr. Uribe's government to
enact and implement reforms and meet people's high expectations for this government.
For the first time in many years, a significant window of opportunity has opened to
implement bold reforms that has led significant sectors of the country and the
14



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
international community to be increasingly optimistic about the reversal of years of
corporatist public policy.
47.   Today, the challenge consists of making sure that the public sector operates under
two principles while delivering more and better quality public services: (a) a budget
constraint principle, and (b) an efficiency principle. The budget constraint calls for the
elimination of rigidities and entitlements that impede flexible fiscal policies; this also
creates the need to enhance the transparency and to commit agencies to deliver specified
results that can be evaluated. The efficiency principle requires that the government
introduce performance and result indicators for agency evaluation and management of
human resources, strengthen and modernize external audits, improve asset management,
pursue effective procurement, protect the state from spurious legal claims, and introduce
electronic government tools for promptly disclosing public information and reducing
transaction costs.4
II. THE FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROGRAM
48.   General Framework: The Estado Comunitario and the Future of the
Colombian Public Sector. The idea of "Estado Comunitario" lies at the heart of this
government's public sector reform program. The "Estado Comunitario" is a set of basic
reform guidelines put together and demonstrated in practice by President Uribe at the
time he was governor of the department of Antioquia, perhaps the most developed
intermediate level administration in Colombia. Already elaborated and announced during
President Uribe's campaign, the concept of Estado Comunitario should inspire criteria
for selection of entry points and impact evaluation of public sector reform under the
present administration. Although still evolving as a guiding concept of public sector
reform, the Estado Comunitario incorporates and adapts to Colombia a number of widely
accepted, contemporary principles of public sector reform that will guide the renovation
of the Colombian public sector under the current administration.
49.   The concept of the Estado Comunitario is the foundation of the National
Development Plan 2002-2006. The fundamental principle underlying the concept is that
the State should exist for the service of its citizens and not for the benefit of special
interests. The Estado Comunitario involves civil society in the attainment of social
objectives; it is a modern State where scarce resources are invested wisely and
efficiently; and it is a decentralized State that stands for regional autonomy with
transparency, political responsibility and community participation.
50.   The National Development P!an proposes the development of the Estado
Comunitario through four basic pillars:
4. Additional focus on corruption, crime and violence will be supported by a judicial reform project and
an anti-corruption project that are anticipated as parallel operations.
15



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
*    Democratic Security. The State must provide security and protection to all
Colombians, without political, ideological, religious or socio-econoniic
distinctions.
*    Sustainable Development and Employment. Economic growth stagnated during
the last few years and unemployment has grown by around 10 percent since 1999.
The State must provide the conditions to recover the path to econornic growth.
*    Social Equity. The State must ensure that the fruits of economic growth are
enjoyed by all Colombians.
*    Renovation of the State. The State must modernize its administration and reform
intergovernmental relations. The ultimate goal is to build a managerial,
participatory and decentralized public sector.
51.    The Estado Comunitario and the Fiscal and Institutional Reform Program
The fundamental purpose of the Fiscal and Institutional Reform Program is to liberate
resources for the effective implementation of public policy and to generate efficiency and
transparency gains that will contribute to fiscal sustainability and the improvement of
service delivery. In this sense, the Program is a necessary condition for the attainment of
the goals of the National Development Plan as described above. Democratic Security
hinges upon the availability of untied fiscal resources, within a framework of
macroeconomic stability, to invest in restoring peace to the country; Sustainable
Development requires a sound macroeconomic framework and effective fiscal policy;
Social Equity requires ability to deliver improved services to the poor and increase their
ability to benefit from economic growth; and the Renovation of the State clearly entails
efficiency and transparency gains as well as the necessary institutional strengthening
actions to deliver more and better public services in a fiscally sustainable way.
52.    The new government and the private sector are frank and open to acknowledge
the long-entrenched state capture and the gradual deterioration of investment climate.
Since the presidential campaign, the government has announced and put together an
ambitious yet realistic program for fiscal and institutional reform that covers both the
revenue and expenditure sides of the fiscal accounts. This reform program involves a
wide array of constitutional, legal and administrative measures that, together, represent
the most significant reform effort since the Constitution of 19915.
53.    New legal and constitutional framework. Upon taking office, the government
launched an array of legislative proposals and actions. Indeed, the unusual number of
substantial constitutional and legislative proposals congested the legislature to the point
that only selected priority issues were approved in the session that ended in mid-
December 2002. Other important proposals, such as the Fiscal Responsibility Law,
received only initial consideration and must wait for the next ordinary Congress session
that will start in March and end in June 2003.
54.    The administration is using a three pronged approach to strengthen its governance
and fiscal discipline. First, it targeted two constitutional reform iniliatives, one via
5 World Bank projects are supporting these reform efforts; through a combined package of structural reform
projects that include overall rationalization of public expenditures (including pension and social security
expenditures), labor reform, tax reform and tax administration, financial reform, and improvement of
health, education and family services.
16



Annex !: Letter of Development Policy
pending referendum and the other via Congress, to strengthen its capabilities at all levels.
One provision of these measures would eliminate the Congress' power to allocate
portions of oil and mining royalties. If approved, these funds would become available for
use as incentives for improving education performance. Second, several legislative
initiatives should remedy a variety of structural impediments contributing to budget
expenditure rigidity and the fiscal deficit. These call for merging some ministries and
advancing ongoing pension and labor reforms. Third, there are reform proposals for a
number of executive branch actions aimed at mitigating important causes of expenditure
rigidity. They are directed at improving the management of state assets, installing inter-
government incentives for higher efficiency and flexibility in education spending,
bolstering the state's protection against excessive-and often unjustified-legal claims,
tightening government procurement, advancing the performance and results-based
management agreement with and monitoring of the Instituto de Seguros Sociales, and
establishing the bases for overall budget reform.
55.   The government is already planning substitute measures in case the Referendum
is not approved by the voters. Those alternative measures would include: i) gradual
elimination of some special pension regimes through legal reform and collective
bargaining; ii) legal reform proposals and administrative measures to ensure expenditure
cuts and additional tax revenues with a fiscal effect at least equivalent to the expected
impact of the current expenditure freeze, and iii) reforms to encourage subnational
governments that currently receive royalty transfers to concentrate their project proposals
in the education sector.
56.   Concept and Structure of the Public Sector Reform Program. The core of the
reforms is contained in two reform packages known as the Tax Reforn and the
Renovation of Public Administration. These two packages are framed within and
supplemented by other government reforms in such a way that the magnitude and
expected impact of the former cannot be adequately grasped without reference to the
latter. The program is both coherent with and strengthened by the constitutional and
legal reforms courageously undertaken by the present administration, involving a popular
referendum scheduled for early 2003, a constitutional reform that has completed one of
two rounds of congressional review, a pensions reform, and the reform of the central
government structure. All these reforms have significant fiscal implications and should
establish the necessary basis for the proposed Fiscal Responsibility Law and for
Colombia's political reconstruction and economic recovery.
A. REVENUE RIGIDITIES AND TAx REFORM
Fiscal Revenue
57.   Given the pressure to spend for both domestic security and social programs, and
the tight borrowing constraints, the government knows that it has to raise more revenue.
The additional tax revenue will come from important measures, some already taken and
some still pending, along two main fronts: Tax Policy and Tax Administration.
17



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
58.   Tax Policy. Colombia gets its fiscal revenue from three main sources-oil
royalties, customs duties, and domestic taxes. The value of oil revenues depends largely
on world market factors beyond the govermnent's control, although there is scope for
reform of how these revenues are allocated and shared between different levels of
government.6 Customs revenues have generally declined over recent years, with trade
liberalization, and should continue this trend for the sake of economic development. The
main opportunity for increasing revenues comes from domestic taxation, which is also an
important area for reducing economic distortions and administrative complexities.
Figure 3: Timeline of Changes in Tax Policy
Total Income 1990-2002
(% GDP)
1t8-                   FL.-2---991Lw383df1997           14.9
Law223of 1993  VA  ZI     Conb evaon
14 -    lTdbutary staNde                          l _ 
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
12-        <      -;~~~~~~~~I 12.-77-   13.37
12   - 
eX 10  <  0.78         1128 11A             633ctI 1oovA11.%7
1      10a41
] 8.53                                    mvret
LawBOf 1992         Law488o11998
L; 49 o 19921 VAT14%         E02% Fianailmovenents|
VAT 12%   tnponnt 37.5%
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Year
59.    Previous rounds of tax reform, particularly in 1974 and 1986, left the country
with a fundamentally sound array of taxes at the national level-on value added,
corporate, and personal income. The two aspects of the income tax are largely integrated
by exempting dividends from taxation as personal income and giving all corporate forms
equal tax treatment. Prior to 2003 capital gains were not taxed at the individual level,
which had the advantage of avoiding double taxation of retained earnings (matching the
non-taxation of distributed earnings and further integrating the business and individual
tax systems) but had the disadvantage of reducing revenue and offering opportunities for
tax avoidance through schemes to convert current income into capital gains.
60.   Aside from the major reforms, however, the tax laws have suffered frequent
changes that reduced revenue collection and introduced distortions by granting
preferential treatment to special interests or, alternatively, increased revenue and
intensified distortions by raising the rates on activities already being taxed. Figure 4
6For the last 15 years the value of oil revenues has also suffered from guerrilla attacks on the pipelines.
18



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
shows the recent time line of changes in tax policy and revenue. Now, the new
government of Colombia has an electoral mandate to raise more tax revenue, and the
challenge is to do so in a way that reduces privileges and distortions.
61.    Key Policy Actions. The enactment of Tax Reform Law 788 in December 2002
brought together some of the key policy actions geared to the modernization of
Colombian tax policy. This law: (i) eliminates exemptions and expands the tax base for
the Value Added Tax; (ii) establishes a new ceiling on the wage exemption for the
personal income tax, and reduces incentives for non-taxed compensation to employees;
and (iii) phases out the corporate income tax exemption for capital gains from sales of
stock, mutual funds and real estate and for profits from previously privileged corporate
forms, contracts, funds or bonds. On a tax-by-tax basis, the 2002 tax reform included the
measures shown in Table 2 (a diagnosis of the previous structure and a description of the
latest reforms and the remaining agenda is presented in Appendix 1[).
TABLE 1. NATIONAL TAXES AND PAYROLL CONTRIBUTIONS
1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001
Percent of GDP
Income Taxes         4.0        3.8       4.4       4.3       4.2       4.3        5.2
olw Corporate       2.2       2.2       2.7       2.5       2.4        2.5       3.0
Personal        1.8       1.6        1.7      1.9        1.8       1.8       2.2
Tax on Banking                                                           0.6       0.7
Transactions
Value Added Tax      4.1        4.7       4.8       4.6       4.4        4.9       5.2
Excise Taxes         0.6        0.7       0.6       0.5       0.5        0.5       0.6
Taxes on              1.0       0.9       1.0       1.2       0.9        1.0       1.1
International Trade
Other                0.6        0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7
Social Security     3.5        3.5       3.3       3.5       3.3        2.7       2.6
Contributions a
Total                13.8      14.3      13.1      14.8      14.0       15.3      16.1
a. Social security contributions and other payroll contributions are collected by institutions outside the
national central government. They include pension contributions and health insurance.
Sources: Estimates based on data provided by CONFIS, IMF, and High Commission on Taxes.
TABLE 2. KEY MEASURES OF THE 2002 TAX REFORM (LAW 788)
Tax                                       Key Effects
Value-Added     *  A large number of previously exempted or excluded goods and services will be
Tax                subject to the VAT at 7 percent from 2003, rising to 10 percent in 2005
*   Nearly all other exempted and excluded goods and services will be taxed at 2
percent from 2005 onwards
*   Mobile phone rate established at 20 percent
*   Rate on automobile sales will be unified at 25 percent from the current range of 20
percent to 35 percent
a   Collection of VAT on all capital goods with a 3-year rebate or credit for registered
firms making further sales
Personal        *  Reduction of the wage tax exemption from 30% to 25% with a ceiling in the
Income Tax         amount of Col$16 million in monthly wages and reduction of tax exemptions, tax
credit and non-taxed income for the personal income tax
19



Annex I. Letter of Development Policy
TABLE 2. KEY MEASURES OIP TH   2002 TAx REFORM (LAW 788)
Corporate       *  Phase-out of exemptions for capital gains from sales of stock, mutual funds and real
Income Tax         estate and for profiis from a variety of previously privileged corporate forms that
often served as tax shelters
* Reduced access to the special tax regime (20 percent rather than the standard 35
percent)
*   10 percent special surcharge for 2003, to be lowered to 5 percent in 2004
Other National  *  Does not eliminate the distortionary financial transactions tax implemented in
Taxes and          1999; however, it closes some loopholes for transactions in the real economy and
Contributions      allows exemptions for some inter-bank transactions not meant to be taxed
Sub-National    *  Rationalizes departmental and clistrict taxes on alcoholic drinks
Taxes           *  Increases the gasoline tax surcharge transferred to subnational governments by 5
percent
62.    Prior to the Congressional approval of Law 788, the Government established a
special, one-time net wealth tax of 1.2 percent (Decree 1838, August 11, 2002) to finance
the restoration of public order. The Government has estimated that the total revenue
from this one-time tax will be in excess of 1 percent of GDP7.
63.    Expected outcomes. These measures will expand the VAT tax base from about 41
percent of consumption in 2002 to about 59 percent by 2005, a major achievement.
Regarding the corporate income tax, the phase out of exemptions will reduce them from
70 percent of potential revenue in 2003, to 50 percent in 2004, to 20 percent in 2005, and
to 0 percent in 2006. An increase in subnational revenues by one-fifth is expected.
Preliminary estimates by the authorities indicate that tax collections would increase by
about I percent of GDP in 2003 as a result of the tax package, rising to 1.2 percent of
GDP in 2004 and to 1.7 percent of GDP in 2005. These expected outcomes are
additional to the one-time wealth tax described in the previous paragraph, which is not a
permanent tax policy measure.
64.    Tax Administration.    Even the best policy reforms would realize their goals of
greater revenue yields with fewer distortions only if there are improvements in tax
administration. This remains a major weakness in Colombia, where tax revenues are
substantially below what the rates and the tax base would normally suggest.
65.    The VAT and income taxes each collect only a little over 5 percent of GDP. The
Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (DIAN) is the entity responsible for tax
and customs administration.     Some of the most important areas where the tax
administration needs improvement are:
*    Revision of the relationship with the banking system in order to standardize
information flows and reduce-the period during which funds are held by banks
(now 14 days);
*    Improved coverage of withholdings of interest income on individuals, now only at
7 percent and from large accounts only;
*    Increased integration between the areas of internal revenue and customs,
especially in processes such as auditing and information management;
*    Reduced costs of enforcing compliance.
7 The collection of this tax is done in four installments. The first two installments have yielded
approximately US$500 million, close to 0.6 percent of GDP.
20



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
66.   Key Policy Actions. The reform of tax administration will include a number of
measures aimed at the aforementioned problems8. In order to improve collection of taxes
on interest paid to individuals, DIAN will require all entities (banks, governments, etc.)
paying interest to expand their reporting on the recipients.
67.   In addition, DIAN will establish unified accounts between customs and domestic
taxes, starting with all large taxpayers in 2003. It will clean up data so that it is in
standard formats and becomes part of centrally managed taxpayer databases, to which all
IASD units contribute and that they can access. To improve enforcement, DLAN will
issue a plan for coordinating audits and sharing information across its departments. It
will establish a list of collectable tax debts and publish a plan and timetable for their
collection, starting with the largest.
68.   To improve the system from the point of view of the taxpayer, DLAN will
establish indicators and will publish data on the cost and time required for compliance.
A series of actions are needed to complement these measures. These should include the
improvement of opportunities for electronic filing (especially for large taxpayers); and
steps to enhance user friendliness and motivate taxpayers to declare and pay
electronically. In addition, DIAN will establish indicators of customs clearance time, and
design procedures permitting expedited shipment inspections based on risk-management
techniques.
B. FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
69.   The fiscal situation in Colombia reflects the extent of excess demand on the State,
its inability to meet those demands, and the urgency of achieving sustainable balances. A
sound fiscal framework is essential for the national security effort, for the social
programs that sustain the State's legitimacy, and for the protection of common citizens
against the ravages of inflation. Achieving that will require, among other things,
institutional reform of the formulation of macroeconomic policy, and close monitoring
and control to meet short- and long-term fiscal targets.
70.    Behind the unavoidable fiscal arithmetic by which spending in excess of revenue
has led to deficits and the accumulation of debt in Colombia, there lie budgeting and
fiscal management procedures that gave rise to the unsustainable fiscal tendencies.
Colombia has given increasing attention, therefore, to changing its rules of the game for
fiscal policy at all levels of government. Until recently, the Constitution and legal rules
for budgeting and treasury have done little to restrain central government deficits and
debt, and in some ways they encouraged them. For example, vigencias futuras make
commitment for future expenditure and the allowance for arrears based on ad hoc
promises for future payment of present expenditures.
71.   In the 1990s, the new Constitution broadened political participation, increased
spending impulses, and weakened the tax base of the national government (automatically
sharing it with subnational governments), all of which compromised overall fiscal
prudence. The Acto Legislativo (constitutional amendment) of 2001 sought to put ex ante
8The MAFPII project, mentioned in the introductory section, has tax administration modernization as one
of its key objectives and will contribute to the implementation of the key policy actions for DIAN.
21



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
limits on some of the spending impulse coming from transfers to subnational
governments.
72.   Despite these reforns, the national government believes that at all levels of
government there remains too much discretion affecting fiscal deficits and not enough
assurance of fiscal sustainability.  Evidence to this effect is the fact that Central
Government expenditures have increased steadily from 9.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to
20.8 percent of GDP in 20029.
73.   Key Policy Actions. The key policy action in relation to fiscal responsibility is the
final enactment of the Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL) and its full application by year
2004. The bill had been prepared and submitted to congress by the previous Pastrana
administration. It has already gone through two approvals in Congress and is expected to
become law in the forthcoming legislative sessions of March-June 2003. The current
draft of the FRL contains rules for fiscal stability, transparency and macroeconomic
consistency, fiscal discipline, and sub-national debt limits. The Law to be enacted is
expected to contain, at a minimum, rules for: a) setting fiscal targets linked to debt
sustainability and primary balance for the NIPS; b) annual reports of fiscal results to
Congress, including floating debt; c) publication of the financial plan that will include,
among others, information on floating and contingency debt; and d) the obligation to
include the fiscal impact and source of financing within any law that creates new tax
expenditures.
74.   The design of the Colombian FRL has benefited from the regional experience of
several countries that have implemented similar fiscal rules, either through fiscal
responsibility laws of their own or through other mechanisms that fall short of an
integrated FRL. Appendix II offers a more detailed analysis.
C. EXPENDITURE RIGIDITIES AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
75.   The Renovation of Public Administration. The structural rigidities that prevent
public expenditure from being flexible enough to address public policy demands
constitute a common thread among the areas contained in the public administration
reform program. The government has identified the need for shorter- and longer-term
actions in a number of horizontal (i.e. systemic, cross-agency) areas and vertical areas
(i.e. agency-by-agency reforms to redefine mission, increase efficiency, and improve
coordination) of public administration.
76.   The initial momentum to this process was Presidential Directive number 10
(August 20, 2002), which establishes the guiding principles for the renovation of the
public administration. Based upon this document, the government started a process of
consultation with international financing organizations to receive financial and technical
support for its implementation. The IBRD focused primarily on the horizontal aspects of
the reform process, as well as some vertical elements that can lead to enhanced service
delivery by the education sector or government agencies.  The Inter-American
9 Source: Departamnento Nacional de Planeaci6n
22



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
Development Bank focused primarily on the vertical reforms and some cross-cutting
issues such as information management, e-govemment and civil service reform.
TABLE 3. RENOVATION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION:
SELECTED VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL DIMENSIONS
Vertical                                 Horizontal
Simplification and Rationalization of the  Higher efficiency in largely captured sectors and
Government's Structure                    agencies and initial steps towards results-oriented
management
Agency-by-agency selective retrenchment   Budget reform, including regulatory adjustments
similar to a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF)
Agency-by-agency procedural and organizational  Administrative reform: Asset management, public
simplification and enhanced service delivery  procurement, legal protection of the State
77.    The timing of reform differs for vertical and horizontal reforms. Some of the
vertical reforms can be quickly introduced. Therefore, as soon as the government took
office it issued regulations and instructions for implementation of reform in the vertical
areas and subrnitted a bill requesting congressional authority to reform the structure of
the administration. That bill was recently approved by Congress and was enacted as Law
790 of December 27, 2002. Reform of horizontal areas will take anywhere from a few
months to the entire four years of the Uribe administration.
Horizontal Reforms
78.    Budget Management Colombia's planning and budgetary process is a complex
interplay of various entities operating under diverse rules and procedures. It produces the
National Development Plan, the Financial Plan, the National Investment Plan, the Annual
Investment Operative Plan, and the Budget. Theoretically, they are fully consistent with
one another, but in practice they differ among themselves. Budget law figures are actual
appropriations instead of expenditure caps which consequently limit the scope for
expenditure control during the budget year. Furthermore, the budget process does not
produce reliable revenue estimates.
79.    Over the years, many Colombian interests have successfully won permanent
budget entitlements or revenue earmarks . This has served to circumvent resource
constraints and to reduce the scope for government decision-making and good fiscal
policy. It has also crimped the mobilization of funds for new prograrns. This problem has
been recognized and acknowledged by the Colombian authorities since it was first
pointed out by the 1980-81 Presidential Commission for Inter-Government Fiscal
Relations. However measures to attenuate it have been too weak or short lived.10
80.    Other deficiencies in the system include the absence of suitable controls over
budget outcomes. Instead of having effective "checks," Colombian budgeting is too
process-oriented. This has hampered the tracking of such important elements as stability,
0. Cf. Bird, R. M. (1981) Colombia. Inter-government Fiscal Relations. Harvard University, International
Tax Program. The Presidential Comision de Gasto Publico of the early nineties produced a report of
similar category.
23



Annex 1: Letter of D,evelopment Policy
effectiveness, and efficiency. In addition, Congress lacks the capacity to properly
analyze budget information.
81.   Thus, the challenge is to initiate a transformation of the budget system in order to
be more policy focused and accountable for results. This will not be an easy task.
Besides the inertial tendencies to maintain existing practices, the vested interests who
have gained power on budget decisions will resist giving it up. Refoim will require
sustained changes in rules and procedures to make budget decisions according to policy
priorities (allocative efficiency), performance and results (productive efficiency), and
available resources. This would affect how central government and sectoral authorities
decide on what should be done, how it is going to be achieved, and who is responsible for
it. It would also affect subnational governments to the extent that national rules and
practices are also applicable to regional and local governments. The new rules also call
for mechanisms to hold policy makers and managers accountable for planned outputs and
outcomes to be delivered in a timely fashion.
82.   Key Policy Actions. The government has determined that substantial reforms in
the budgetary process are essential to restore its capacity to implement fiscal policy
within a framework of macroeconomic stability. A number of key policy actions have
been identified that when taken together, constitute an important package of reforms that
will restore flexibility to budgetary managernent and strengthen the policymaking
capacity of the Executive Branch.
83.   The key initial steps to be taken by the present government include:
Pursuing a Medium-Termn Expenditure. Framework (MTEF) adjusted to the
Colombian legal and political constraints. This document must propose aggregate
fiscal targets for a multi-annual period (in conjunction with the FRL), identify key
strategic and policy issues and propose sectoral allocations. Once these sectoral
priorities and 'activities are identified by line-ministries and decentralized
agencies, it would be possible to carry out a cost assessment of total requirements
within each sector. This medium term perspective would also serve other
purposes: provide reliable figures to evaluate possibilities of budget cuts from the
standpoint of output impact rather than the more traditional input perspective, and
clarify the need to evaluate legal entitlements in the light of sectoral objectives
and priorities, and how to shift resources when priorities change.
*    Restore Budget Powers to the Ministry of Finance. The yearly budget law, once
approved by Congress, creates mandatory entitlements for the- public sector
institutions that the Executive Branch must honor, regardless of their consistency
with fiscal or macroeconomic developments during the fiscal year. To introduce
a greater degree of oversight by the Executive Branch during budget
implementation, the Government is seeking a Constitutional amendment that
would introduce "filters" between budget approval and implementation to ensure
overall fiscal coherence.
*    In addition to the Constitutional amendment, important changes in.the Organic
Budaet Law (LOP) are needed. Once the Constitutional amendment is passed, the
LOP must be modified to regulate the operation of the "filters" that would be
24



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
enshrined in the Constitution. Even if the amendment is not passed, a reform to
the LOP will still be necessary to enhance the Executive Branch's capacity for
budget management within the existing Constitutional constraints. To support this
process, a high-level Special Commission comprising s.veral stakeholders will
comprehensively review, entitlements and revenue earmarking to identify and
recommend necessary reforms and help build broad support for them.
*    Ensuring Consistency between Current and Capital Expenditures. Over decades,
the processes of assigning current and capital experditures by the MOF and by
the DNP respectively have resulted in two almost autonomous budgets. This
resulted, among other things, in an inability to effectively analyze the current
expenditure consequences of public investment. The authorities will act to ensure
coherence between current and capital spending.
o    Greater Transparency and Accountability for Outcomes. This element of the
strategy calls for simplifying budgetary information in order to make it easier to
understand and available for public use. This proposal goes hand in hand with the
government's initiatives to launch a website with comprehensive fiscal
information based on SIIF outcomes, and will require the immediate
implementation of a Communication Program to convey to the public the present
budget figures.
*    Review of Entitlements and Earmarked Revenues. To promote flexibility in
public expenditure, the GOC will establish a high level Special Commission to
undertake a process of review of expenditure entitlements and earmarked
revenues, and recommend the necessary legal and administrative measures to
introduce greater flexibility in budget management.
o    Budgeting and Accounting Classifications using International Standards.
Different government levels have been reluctant to unify accounting and
budgeting classifications, instead using non-standard accounting practices. The
strategy aims at unifying budgeting and accounting bookkeeping according to
international standards in time for the FY2006 budget.
*    Budget Control. The weakness of political, technical, tiscal, and social controls of
budget outcomes has left the budget system without effective "checks." In
Colombia, the fundamental problem with control is that it is process oriented,
making it virtually impossible to keep track of fiscal outcomes (stability,
effectiveness, and efficiency). The Government will implement a performance
management exercise that will promote a different approach to analyzing
budgetary outcomes.
84.   Asset Management. By "asset management" we refer to the rules, regulations,
systems and practices with which the Government manages its existing assets, both fixed
assets of high value (especially real estate) as well as other lesser assets that are part of
the public sector's capital stock. Improper asset management can impose significant
rigidities and inefficiencies in public financial management. From the expenditure side,
25



Annex!1: Letter of Development Policy
the public sector often needs to makce additional investments because of the inability to
use its existing assets due to improper titling, incomplete inventory, or other reasons.
From the revenue side, unproductive or unnecessary public sector assets constitute a
potential source of capital income should they be sold.
85.   The Planning Department (DNP) is taking the leadership to develop a strategic
vision on how to approach the subject of asset management. There is no complete
information on the total of assets owned, their current value, and their legal status.
Although the Contaduria General de la Naci6n has started a sort of inventory process,
the public accounts give a partial and out of date view of the real situation.
86.   Some agencies have accumulated a varied array of properties and other assets,
which with unclear legal status and economic value, incomplete registration, and
irregular control, constitute no solid basis to begin applying professional management
criteria. The complex legal framework is an additional burden as it doe.s not recognize
market principles, nor does it provide adequately for discretionary managerial actions.
As a result of all these factors, there is a substantial accumulation of idle assets.
87.    Since almost everything is to be done, challenges for asset management are
numerous. Nevertheless, there are three major challenges that can be addressed during
the life of this program. First, to know precisely what is owned, its value, legal title and
effective possession; second, to effectively execute new policies based on criteria
encouraging the keeping of useful and productive assets and mandating the release from
state ownership of unproductive assets which have no direct connection with
governments' mission; and third, to manage all state owned assets within strict
parameters of efficiency and transparency.
88.   Key Policy Actions. The key policy actions for asset management are divided into
the short- and medium-term:
*    Short-term policy actions. DNP wili, as an initial step, develop a framework for
asset management which defines the scope of government action and policy. This
is crucial since at present no entity in the central government is in charge of asset
management, and strategy, policies, and procedures, have to be develop from
scratch. The scope of this initial work also includes the operational planning for
the elaboration of consolidated inventories (with verification of title, possession,
value and accounting registration), as well as the implementation of a Pilot
Program conducive to quick results with positive fiscal impact.  A small
Committee is being formed with representatives from key agencies and the
technical assistance of a limited group of external consultants, for the dual
purpose of executing certain actions of this first stage, and coordinating the
execution of other actions by government agencies.
*    The government intends to put in place a quick-action pilot plan, basically an
assets sale and optimization program for 2003 and 2004 under the current
regulatory framework. Although the government will not have yet developed an
adequate asset management capacity, it is important to rapidly produce some
needed income in order to send a definite signal of the new public asset policy
and reach the more profitable later stages with continuing public support. This
26



Annex I: Lener of Development Policy
program will yield by 2005 at least $175,000 million (Colombian pesos of 2002),
equivalent to roughly US$60 million.
*    Medium-term policy actions. Subsequent actions include: (i) the formation of a
centralized unit charged with the coordination of the more substantial reforms,
develop Manuals of Policies and Procedures, provide technical assistance and
overall guidance to other participating agencies, and be responsible for the
centralized management of a Data Base system; and (ii) develop a more flexible
and open-minded approach to concessions, leasing, privatization, outsourcing,
etc., and the publication of the inventory of assets owned by each agency,
increasing transparency and accountability. Through these reforms it is expected
that assets worth approximately US$1 billion can be registered and prevented
from further deterioration, which highlights the considerable fiscal impact of this
reform.
89.   Development of Incentives for Efficiency Gains. Service delivery in Colombia,
as in many other countries, has long emphasized inputs over outcomes. The traditionally
centralized public sector management tended to distance public managers even further
from the outcomes achieved by the interventions of their programs, yielding mediocre
public services at unreasonably high costs. It was hoped that decentralization would be a
strategy to reverse this tendency, and since the mid-1980s a shift of resources and
decision making authority to local government has occurred. But decentralization has not
fully reached its objectives, and its level of implementation varies among the regions.
The transfer of powers has resulted in blurred responsibilities in a number of sectors,
which further undermines accountability.
90.   This calls for a reform in which agencies commit themselves to managing for
results. International experience suggests that results-based management has the potential
to redirect efforts of public servants toward the user by a focus on costs, quality, and
outcomes; however, the necessary conditions for results-based management include true
managerial discretion for public sector managers to accompany accountability for results,
as well as deep reforms in the budgetary process. Although Colombia is not in a position,
at this time, to undertake the challenge of implementing results-based management,
important steps forward can be taken towards this long-term objective.
91.   The present challenge for Colombia lies in the ability to use results-based
management to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of fiscal transfers. In the case of
mandatory transfers, the government must adopt a role of tutelage: first, technical
assistance can improve management in local governments and thereby match their
existing autonomy with tools to manage; second, the government can encourage
municipalities' voluntary application of the new instruments through non-binding results
agreements that enshrine these objectives. The government has the opportunity to turn
non-mandatory transfers (particularly royalty transfers or transfers from oil and mining
revenues) into incentives to apply the new instruments and to require co-funding from
local governments.
92.   Key Policy Actions. The government is committed to raising the efficiency of
education transfers as a first step towards freeing resources for new sector or inter-sector
priorities.
27



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
93.    The government policy for enhancing efficiency in education consists of defining
capacity standards for subnational governments to manage the new transfer based on
calculations of resources per capita, then providing incentives to those municipalities or
departments that meet government standards. The new financial incentive will be drawn
from the reallocation of the Royalty Fund. Reallocation of the royalty transfers already
has been initiated in the budget for 2003 and will be expanded and consolidated by the
national referendum approved by congress and up for popular vote in 2003.
94.    Protecting the State against the Extraordinary Growth of Legal Claims.
Litigation against the state has a substantial fiscal impact in Colombia, much above
known impacts for other countries. Typically, lawsuits against the state arise from poorly
drafted contracts, which leave space for litigation regarding the interpretation of rights
and obligations. Since 1994, the number of cases filed has increased enormously, and
their outcome has contributed negatively to the current fiscal crisis. In 2001, legal
liabilities due to formal first instance judicial or arbitration decisions against the state
amounted approximately US$500 million"1. This amount alone is cause for serious
concern. But the growing trend being shown by statistical data is alarmning. If trends
continues, it is estimated that by the year 2006, judgments against the State will represent
approximately 2 percent of GDP.
Figure 4. Accumulated Fiscal Cost of Contingent Liabilities Against the State
7,000 00                                                                    V
7,000                                                           O4M
6,000                                                                       T
,            --000
'  4,000
300
21000                                                             Li 
1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000    Sep-01    2002*
Sources: Contralorfa General de la Republica, Contadurfa General de la Nacion and The World Bank
95.    This scenario is aggravated by the fact that the state cannot afford to honor on
time all compensatory payments. An extremely high rate of Penalty Interest (up to 30
percent p.a.) is applied, creating a "snowball effect" in the State's liabililies. This allows
ample margin for unethical practices, as creditors "prefer" to be paid late and benefit
from a very attractive return on their accounts receivable.
iWorld Bank estimates based on data from the Contralorfa General de la Republica and the Contadurfa
General de la Naci6n. Before the decision of the appeal level. Note that a single case still pending decision,
Telecom, could generate compensation payments of up to US$282 million, adding great fiscal pressure that
is not sustainable in the short term.
28



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
TABLE 4. CONTINGENT LIABILrrIES-O0F BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
(IN THOUSANDS OF MILLIONS OF COLOMBL4N PESOS)
Dec     Dec     Var     Dec     Var     Dec     Var    June
Concept                  1998    1999  Percent   2000  Percent  2001   Percent   2002
Litigation & claims filed  7.582,1  9.292,2  22,6%  11.892,2  28,0%  17.727,8  49,1%  20.213,7
Civil claims             997,7  1.712,4  71,6%  2.173,0  26,9%  6.512,0  199,7%  6.441,0
Labor claims             91,9    316,6  224,5%  508,9   60,7%   561,5   10,3%   605,0
Crimninal claims          2,3    76,0    ...     69,2   -8,9%    89,7   29,6%    88,5
Administrative           834,8  2.447,7  193,2%  8.227,8  238,2%  9.555,7  15,4%  11.818,3
Fiscal obligations       34,6    46,8   35,2%    43,4   -7,4%    35,2  -18,8%    34,5
Other obligations       5.620,8  4.692,7  -16,5%  819,9  -82,5%  973,7  18,8%   1.226,4
96.     Regardless of the complexity of the situation, three distinctive elements can be
identified as the main reasons for this problem. Firstly, there seems to be a web of civil
servants, contractors, judges, attorneys, etc. engaged in coordinated corruptive practices
that materialize in reciprocal favors of poorly drafted contractual agreements, fake
accusations and claims, high compensation payments, intentional "erroneous" decisions,
etc. 12 Secondly, the Colombian state has a weak capacity to defend itself in Court. The
private sector is better equipped to retain expert legal advice and therefore their claims
are exerted with much more rigor. Thirdly, the legal framework encourages the State to
take the backseat in demands and claims from individuals. In labor and contracting legal
issues, the State recognizes certain rights to counterparts, but in doing so, compromises
its own position.
97.    The Ministry of Finance, the Planning Department and the Ministry of Justice are
especially concerned with the fiscal threat that originates from a weak legal and judicial
performance of the State. These government units, with the support of sector ministries,
the Procuraduria, the Contraloria and the Consejo de Estado, are committed to elevating
the institutional capacity of the state to protect itself from legal claims as a precondition
for an effective reform.
98.    Key Policy Actions. The major challenge for the Colombian government is to
introduce enforceable legal provisions that: a) minimize, if not eliminate, errors and/or
weaknesses in the execution of government decisions and government contracts; and b)
facilitate the strengthening of the government capacity to defend itself mandating a
proactive approach in protecting State interests.
99.    The key actions in this area seek to ensure effective budget compensation
whenever the state is held responsible for contractual or extra-contractual damage,
according to Colombian laws and international conventions --including those of the Inter-
American Legal System-- signed by the country. The objectives of strengthening legal
protection of the state are: i) to reduce negligence and corruption in the management of
12 This appears to have happened, for example, in the recent decisions against the state for the cases of
Foncolpuertos and Tennorrio.
29



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
state affairs, including labor and commercial contracts; ii) to reduce fiscal impact of
judicial and arbitration decisions against the state by seeking compensation from
responsible officers or third parties; iii) to strengthen the state capacity to prepare,
monitor and control large investment contracts and labor relations with a view to prevent
contractual disputes; iv) to anticipate and prevent state responsibility for infringement of
basic rights; and v) to foster a better investment climate through enhancement of
transparency, predictability and responsibility in the state contractual and extra-
contractual relations.
100. To achieve these goals a comprehensive policy will have to be designed from
scratch. A task force of lawyers and procurement specialists will be charged with
identifying and directly handling all judicial issues-or issues subject to alternative
means of dispute resolution-that could have the most negative fiscal impact. A new
binding rule will make it mandatory that sensitive sectors, particularly those representing
high value transactions-such as telecommunications, electricity, and road concessions-
require technical assistance from  specialized professionals.  This institutional
strengthening program will also include generating information that is currently
missing-such as better analytical data, specialized know-how of certain situations, and
techniques for developing preventive and/or curative strategies. Together, the above
measures should enable the government to systematically prevent and correct ongoing
abusive legal claims against the State.
101. Strengthening Public Sector Procurement. Contracting and procurement with
clear and transparent rules are critical for making efficient choices in buying goods and
services, and averting corruption in the process. In Colombia, inefficiencies in public
contracts are due to a large extent to the legacy of traditional patronage systems in the
state and the lack of a clear division between the private and public sectors. A dispersed
and highly diversified legal framework also contributes to procurement problems.
102.  Presently some 80 laws regulate government purchases, with frequent overlaps
and omissions. This debilitates monitoring and protects both buyers and vendors of
services from being accountable to each other, providing much opportunity for
corruption.  Moreover, no central agency is in charge of promoting reform  and
determining rules that could introduce more transparency. Overly complex procedures
thus still prevail, partly because the use of modem information technology is relatively
weak. Finally, civil society does not yet play a significant supervisory role, which further
undermines accountability and transparency.
103. Key Actions. The government has already taken a significant step towards
enhanced transparency in procurement contracts. Decree 2170 of 2002, which regulates
Law 80, adopted some Bank recommendations and international best practice to this
effect. In addition, Congress is considering a draft law which seeks to reform Law 80 in
a substantial manner, including simplifying the numerous special procurement regimes,
among other measures. In addition, the government will: a) develop a concept for
monitoring and evaluating government purchases since strong follow-up and control are
critical to holding contractors accountable for results; and b) make extensive use of
modern technology towards e-procurement for purposes of transparency and efficiency as
well as for helping to lower compliance costs for the user.
30



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
104.  Furthermore, the government will implement a framework to facilitate public
access to information on contracts. It intends to create a single data bank for all
government purchases showing which contracts are being administered at any particular
time. Moreover, civil society will be enabled to take a more prominent role in reviewing
in decision-making processes by assuming a supervisory role in the selection process,
while the State ensures that decisions are made more publicly. Finally, the central
government will try to extend this reform program to municipalities and provide them
with incentives for adopting in similar practices.
Vertical Reforms
105. The process of public sector modernization emphasizes the need to rethink the
role of the State; more systematically determining what activities should be conducted by
government. This exercise has produced a "vertical reform" program whose objectives
are to: (i) redefine the role of the State in each sector; (ii) design the organizational
structure of each sector-leading entity; (iii) establish sensible structures of subsidiary
entities; and (iv) rationalize personnel, reduce current expenditures and otherwise liberate
public resources that can be reallocated to improvements in the provision of goods and
services.
13
106.  Cost containment . A large share of the above measures aim at the overall
containment of costs, and many actions have already been taken. A decree has been
issued for the rationalization of central government current expenditures, notably
personnel expenses.  There has been a reduction in the National Government's
organizational structure. While many of these measures are not expected to produce
substantial savings, they will send clear signals to bureaucrats and the public at large that
this government is committed to keep public expenditures within available resources-
even at the cost of some downsizing or political favoritism.
107.  Some of the key downsizing measures include the elimination of three ministries
by mergers with other ministries: Health with Labor; Interior with Justice, Development
with Foreign Trade or Environment, and a selective retrenchment and training for staff
made redundant (an instruction has been issued requesting downsizing of the central
14
administration through an indicative 20 percent cut in personnel)
108.  The cost-containment effect of these reforms is supplemented by a number of
important policy reforms that are expected to have a significant impact on public
expenditures. First, the budget approved for 2003 includes significant reductions in real
terms of public expenditures other than debt service.  Second, the reform of the
constitution via popular referendum includes provisions for freezing current
expenditures15 for years 2003 and 2004 to their level (in current terms) in 2002. This
initiative should produce savings of 0.7 of GDP in 2003 and 0.5 of GDP in 2004. Third,
the government is committed to not-filling and eliminating 30,000 job posts presently
empty or occupied by employees that will retire during the current administration.
13 The IDB is also providing technical and financial support to this component of the reform program.
14 If completely implemented, this measure, together with freezing and elimination of vacancy posts, should
reduce the number of public employees by 40,000 -or a savings of 0.6 percent of GDP by 2006.
'5  With the exception of lowest wages and pensions and military expenditures.
31



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
109.  Key Policy Actions. Most of the vertical measures aimed towards an immediate
reduction in public expenditure have already been taken. The key upcoming policy
actions must therefore be geared toward achieving long-term, sustainable gains in
efficiency and quality in the delivery of services by key public sector entities. This
process of business process reengineering and institutional strengthening will take time
and will require close supervision, input from clients, and other elements to guide the
reforms in the medium term.
110. Management Contracts for Government Agencies. Colombia has good
reasons to be disappointed with the so-called functional decentralization. Promoted by
the administrative reform of 1968-70, functional decentralization was expected to create a
number of specialized, technically managed, government agencies. With the passage of
time,, more than one hundred government agencies were created -often with the
expectation of becoming self-financing entities.
111.   With only a few exceptions (most notably some local public utility companies
such as Empresas Publicas de Medellin), these agencies were either captured by trade
unions and other closed circles of stakeholders or have extended their life long beyond
their initial raison d'etre. Many agencies create additional fiscal pressure for transfers
from the central government or otherwise maintain a confusing system of back and forth
transfers and credits with the central government.
112. Key Policy Actions. The government is pursuing some restructuring of at least 30
government agencies during the four years of the Uribe administration. Re-engineering
should provide the basis for adjusting and self-financing. A complementary step will be
the design and implementation of management contracts with specific revenue and
balance targets for two pilot agencies selected among the largest government agencies.'6
If successfully applied, those pilots should lead to further extension of management
contracts under subsequent administrations.
Manauement of the Public Sector Reform Process
113. Reforming the State is a complex undertaking that challenges any government's
capability. This is also true for Colombia as it prepares for its ambitious reform program.
For this to be successful it must be able to respond to two fundamental questions:
114.  Will the process have enough stakeholder involvement? As the reform process
unfolds-but especially in the short run- resistance by political and social groups often
tends to increase rather than decrease. Policymakers cannot take for granted that all
stakeholders participate in and approve of the changes. Maneuvering through these
obstacles requires careful choices and smart communication strategies. This is especially
true for Colombia since, during the initial phase of reform design, the public sector
reform program very much followed a top-down approach with little room for
consultation. and open, participatory politics. To be sure, the DNP enjoys much respect
within the government and has the backing of the highest political leadership in the
16The country has already experimented with and drawn lessons from the SFAL-supported management
contract for the Social Security Institute, ISS
32



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
country. Moreover, this government was elected by an overwhelming majority that has
been fully supportive of the president's reform program -and his government's
exceptional capacity to pass and implement long-expected reforms-- since the days of
the Presidential campaign. What is needed now -and the government is aware of it-is
to instill understanding ownership of the proposed reforms within the legislature, the
private sector, academia, think-tanks, NGOs and civil society at large. Management of
the reform process has to be primarily geared to extending ownership of the reform
beyond the small circle of technocrats that put together the technical details of the reform
program. In addition, managing a growing number of participating agencies requires
oversight and knowing precisely who is responsible for what at each stage of the process,
while simultaneously adjusting to changing circumstances and opportunities.
115.  Can the impact of the reform be properly evaluated so that politicians can be
held accountable? Contracting for results is not only a modern management tool for
service delivery; its principles also apply for reform processes of governments. In an
ideal setting, politicians would set clear goals and commit themselves to reach certain
results and targets; progress-and more important -outcomes and impact of the
reform-would be evaluated and politicians would be held accountable for their actions.
Each of these tasks poses a considerable challenge to the government which must
respond by creating a conducive institutional framework for reaching the envisaged
goals. This is particularly challenging since the reform is already well under way and
moving with quickening pace. At the same time, there is a growing demand for results
from civil servants, the media and the electorate.
116.  Key Policy Actions. To meet the above challenges, common to any administrative
reform process, the government has chosen to establish a systematic management of the
reform process, consisting of four components: political coordination, technical
coordination, communication and public marketing, and monitoring and evaluation.
117.  Political coordination. Gaining the acceptance of political actors is key for
successful reform. Initially, this role will be played by the National Commission for
Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) as the principle planning commission. Over the
course of the reform, however, there will be the need to guide the process on a more
continuous basis to avoid the danger of loss of political momentum. Not all participating
ministries are equally affected or interested in the State reform process, so much
specificity will be gained from working only with the most relevant onesby creating a
specialized commission in addition to CONPES. This core Commission for State Reform
(CSR) has already been established, composed of the Ministry of Finance, the Planning
Department and the Departamento Administrativo de la Funcio'n Piiblica.
118.  Technical coordination. Transforming political priorities and goals into effective
application is the challenge that underlies technical coordination of the process. The
DNP will tackle this by regularly incorporating into its work the advice of top experts in
State reform, initially for the crafting of general government policy. In the medium
term, this should be complemented by a group of seasoned experts to consult
independently. Equally important is the establishment or continuing support of technical
task teams in both DNP and each of the ministries and agencies subject to reform. The
entire process will be supported by CSR.
33



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
119.  Communication and public marketing. The benefits and costs of reform will not
be equally distributed and some citizens will not be directly or immediately affected by
certain actions. Therefore, an effective public marketing strategy is needed to reaching
out to involve and obtain the support of a wide array of Colombians for the requisite
institutional changes. This must be tailored to different audiences and their particular
information needs.
120. Monitoring and evaluation. Conducting systematic monitoring can critically
contribute to informed decision-making at the political and technical level. As a first
step, the tasks include development of a baseline and the establishment of indicators.
When done properly, monitoring and evaluation add much to the quality and
sustainability of reform, providing the necessary information to generate needed public
support.
In.      THE PROPOSED PROGRAM AND OPERATIONS
A. LINKS WITH THE BANK'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
121.  As described in the 2003 CAS discussed at the Board on January 19, the WBG's
strategy will seek to support Colombia's quest for peace in three essential areas: a)
achieving fast and sustainable growth; b) sharing the fruits of growth; and c) building a
government of quality. To support this strategy, the Bank lending program envisioned in
the CAS focuses on operations that would: a) have the most tangible impact on poverty
alleviation; b) achieve fast and sustainable growth while protecting the poor; c)
incorporate the lessons learned from Bank's operations, particularly from on-going
Learning and Innovative Loans; and d) pilot innovative interventions with important
demonstration effects.
122.  The FIAL will directly contribute to achieving the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) objectives from a variety of perspectives:
*    CAS Goal "Achieving Fast and Sustainable Growth": The fiscal consolidation
supported by the proposed loan would protect the country's rnacroeconomic
framework by reducing the likelihood of fiscal crises and inflation that would
most impact the poor. Fiscal stabilization will promote a better investment
climate and facilitate access to markets in better terms.
*     CAS Goal "Sharing Growth with all Colombians": While this programn
will not directly address inequality, the public sector reform component
contributes to better and more uniform spending for all groups of society. More
importantly, by broadening tax bases and improving tax administration, the costs
of revenue raising will be shared more equally across citizens. By preventing
major fiscal crises and focusing on quality and quantity of public service delivery,
the FHAL-supported program also ensures that essential public services would
continue to be available to those who could not otherwise procure them-namely,
the poor and most vulnerable.
34



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
CAS Goal "Building a Government of Quality": Creating a more efficient and
more transparent government lies at the core of the institutional reform program.
Reforming budgetary institutions, introducing results-oriented management-both
intra-government and among levels of government-streamlining the operation of
ministries and agencies, making a more transparent procurement system, and
evaluating the results of government services would contribute to the achievement
of this goal.
123. Linkage between the Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment
Program and other Bank operations. The proposed Programmatic series of Fiscal and
Institutional Adjustment Loans to support public sector reform and fiscal adjustment is
the core of the Bank's support to the reform efforts of the government and it will provide
the basis upon which complementary policy-based operations will be developed. These
include support to the financial sector in the form of Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FY03 and FY04) that aims to promote the development of a well-
functioning financial system that can provide adequate services to all segments of the
productive sector and the population at large. In addition, building on the achievements
of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FY00), it will address the remaining agenda to
ensure the health and financial sustainability of the banking system and to foster capital
markets development.
124. The anticipated Sustainable Development Sector Adjustment Loan (FY05) will
support the mainstreaming of environment in practically all infrastructure sectors,
including water and sanitation, energy, transport and disaster management. The tools for
mainstreaming environment include: policy setting, strategic environmental assessments,
land use planning (planes de ordenamiento territorial), permits and licensing,
environmental regulation, economic and fiscal instruments, social impact analysis and
valuation, assessment and linkage with global environmental goals, participation and
conflict resolution mechanisms, and development of sector-environment indicators linked
to health impacts. These tools are currently being used in most sectors, however this
operation aims to enhance effectiveness and impact by providing a more rational
application based on priority-setting and institutional analysis (how the environmental
management institutions set priorities, receive budgets, and function).
125.  The anticipated program of Labor and Social Sector Adjustment Loans (FY04 and
FY05) will support the policy and institutional framework to enhance decentralization in
education. In addition, it will support reforms in the health sector to create a financially
sustainable system that provides incentives for greater efficiency and that will deepen the
reform initiatives of the early 1990s to improve coverage, access, quality and equity. It
will also implement reforms in the treatment of labor, such as improving the efficiency of
the training system now in place by means of redefining the role of SENA. Two
important issues related to Colombian labor markets are: (i) payroll taxes; and (ii) wage
inflexibility. Studies will be carried out to shed light on initial steps that might be taken to
tackle these issues. These steps may include the explicit regulation of apprentice
contracts (that permit firms to hire apprentices without paying some taxes and at lower
wages) and the introduction of portability for many social security benefits financed by
means of payroll taxes.
35



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
126.  In addition, the FIAL program is highly interrelated with the current MAFPII
Project, aimed at strengthening budgeting, tax administration, public investment
management, procurement, and results management, and will provide significant inputs
and support for the proposed FIAL.
127.  Complementarities with Other Institutions' Operations. The IMF has signed a
stand-by agreement with the Colombian government in January 2003. The IDB is
considering to provide support to the government of Colombia in some of the reforms
classified as "vertical," that is, sector reforms such as downsizing (including personnel
cuts) and adjustments of the government structure. The IDB is also considering to support
the expansion of e-government in Colombia.
B. OBJECTIVES AND DESCRPTiON OF THE PROGRAM
128.  Overall Objective. The objective of the program is twofold: first, to promote
reforms addressing fiscal rigidities necessary to attain the substantial fiscal adjustment
underlying sustainable macroeconomic stability; and second, to improve the provision of
public services and establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and
accountability in public expenditure. The emphasis of the reform programt will gradually
shift, from tax andfiscal responsibility at the beginning, to expenditure and public sector
reform towards the second and third years of the program.
129.  These objectives are the backbone of the government's broad program of reforms,
which includes significant policy actions to increase the mobilization of resources to the
public sector, improve critical public administration processes, and enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of key government institutions. The Bank's support for this
ambitious program is well complemented by the efforts of other development partners
and will be structured under a proposed Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional
Adjustment Loan (FLAL). The Bank has received a Letter of Development Policy that
outlines the Government's vision (Annex 1) and requests the Bank's financial support.
130.  Specific Objectives. This program supports the following key elements of the
Government's reform program over the next four years17:
*     Increase tax revenue and reduce distortions in the tax system;
*     Modernize tax administration;
*     Improve budget management with modern tools and legal reformns;
*     Develop incentives for efficiency gains in subnational entities;
*     Prevent massive losses to the State from judicial claims;
*     Strengthen the public sector procurement system;
*     Reduce losses and generate revenues through improved asset management;
*     Improve performance through management contracts for government agencies;
*     Promote the development of a sound fiscal responsibility legal framework; and
*     Support a coherent and comprehensive reform implementation process.
17 The detailed set of benchmarks for the first loan and an indicative detailed list of benchmarks for the
second and third loans are specified in the policy matrix in Annex III.
36



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
131.  This program is being supported by a series of up to four loans, with a notional
envelope of up to US$900 million in total. Depending on successful implementation of
the program, the proposed first loan in the amount of US$300 million would be followed
by subsequent loans with the notional amounts of up to US$150 million; US$150 million;
and US$300 million. These envisaged loans are fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2003.
132. The current loan capitalizes on lessons learned by: i) supporting government
commitment to undertake constitutional, legal and administrative measures to reduce
budget entitlements and enhance expenditure flexibility; ii) enhancing transparency,
dissemination and reporting standards that call for participation of civil society in
monitoring budget allocations and expenditure efficiency; iii) strengthening subnational
capacity to effectively manage social services; and iv) introducing and/or ensuring
application of efficiency signaling and conditioning in fiscal transfers for social sectors.
133.  Technical Assistance. Many of the technical assistance requirements of several
key components - particularly tax administration, budgeting and procurement- as well
as the financial management or evaluation features of other components, will be partially
or fully provided by the MAFPII project, currently in execution. In addition, the
Government and the IDB are considering to include technical assistance support for other
FIAL components -particularly asset management and legal protection of the state--
under an IDB-TAL project currently under preparation. Moreover, the GOC and the
Bank have initially agreed that, should it become necessary, a technical assistance loan
(TAL) can be prepared to support the implementation of other areas of the FIAL reforms,
particularly management contracts for government agencies.
134. Fiscal Commitments. Within its macroeconomic framework, the government
signed a new Stand-By loan with the IMF in the amount of SDRI.5 billion for the next
two years (See Annex if). Achieving the structural benchmarks of the agreement will
constitute an overarching policy condition for the FIAL. Some of the targets of the IMF-
backed program for 2003 are a consolidated non-financial public sector deficit of 2.5
percent of GDP, a current account deficit of 0.8 percent of GDP and an inflation rate
between 5 and 6 percent.
135. By the end of the program, it is expected that the Colombian Government will be
able to address social demands and implement its program under a framework of
increased fiscal flexibility, while maintaining macroeconomic stability.
C. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
136.  The first operation of the program is primarily designed to support the first phase
(Congressional approval) of the constitutional referendum, the tax reform, and the initial
measures that comprise the building blocks for other/subsequent public sector reform
initiatives supported by the overall program. It is proposed as a single tranche loan to be
fully disbursed in March 2003. The timing of the first loan is calibrated to support the
government in its efforts to deliver an immediate confidence-building signal to the
markets through major reforms that have recently been approved or are being
implemented in the first weeks of 2003.
37



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
137.    The first loan is linked to, inter alia, the tax reform    law, the law   that grants
special authority to the government to adopt administrative reform measures, and the law
that authorizes the constitutional referendum. It also supports government initiatives and
preliminary congressional approval for the constitutional reform that gives power to the
borrower's Executive Branch to control and manage the budget within fiscal targets and
the fiscal responsibility law. Triggers for second loan include, among others, the final
approval of the fiscal responsibility law. The second, third and fourth loans, all
envisioned as single tranche operations, will be addressed primarily to institutional
reforms and improvements in tax administration. The detailed legal and regulatory
reforms required as riart of the first loan are shown in the following table:
TABLE5: REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE FIAL
FIRST LOAN (US$300 MILLION)
I . The Borrower has attained, for the period covered by any three (3) continuous months among the twelve
(12) months preceding withdrawals from the Loan Account, an overall deficit of the Combined Public
Sector of no more than US$1,352,000,000 equivalent to P$3,874,000,000,000.
2. Borrower has enacted tax reform law (Law 788 of 2002), including: a) reduction of exemptions and
expansion of the tax base for the VAT b) reduction of the wage tax exemption from 309% to 25% with a
ceiling in the amount of Col$16 million in monthly wages (rentas laborales) and reduction of tax
exemptions, tax credit and non-taxed income for the personal income tax, and c) the phasing out of the
corporate income tax exemption for capital gains from sales of stock, mutual funds and real estate, and as
well as for profits from corporations previously exempted.
3. The Ministry of Fmance, through DIAN, has enacted new rules for tax administration including: a) daily
interest payments higher than Col$900 are subject to withholding at the source; b) obligation of financial
institutions to report information on taxpayers' accounts that are credited with annual interest of at least
Col$5 million'8, and/or have total annual deposits equal or higher than Col$50 million; c) establish a list of
collectable tax debts on December 31 of 2002 and elaborate a plan and set up a schedule to collect at least
20 percent of these collectable debts; and d) establish indicators of customs clearance time and procedures
to select shipments for inspection based on a risk-management system for the customs offices of BogotA
and Medellfn.
4. Borrower has submitted to congress and congress has approved, in first round, constitutional reform that
gives power to the borrower's Executive Branch to control and manage the budget within fiscal targets.
5. Royalty transfer: borrower has enacted law to enable constitutional referendum for transfer of royalties for
educational services.
6. Borrower has promulgated Law 790 of 2002, that grants authority to central govemment for strengthening
the Direcci6n de Defensa Judicial del Ministerio del Interior y de Justicia with the purposes of: a) policy
formulation and coordination for the limiting the state's civil liability; b) to demand indemnization by
borrower's civil servants who acted with gross negligence and bad faith; and professionalization of judicial
defense of the state.
7. Government has issued Decree 2170 dated September 30, 2002 that strengthens transparency and
objectivity in public sector procurement.
8. Bill of Law 018/2002 modifying current public sector procurement legal framework in consideration by
borrower's Congress.
9. Government has created a Commission for Asset Management charged with preparation of draft
government policy, define the scope of work and an operational plan to define accounting systems and
inventories in public agencies.
10. Government has selected at least two government agencies, agency intervened 6y central government for
pilot management contracts 2003-2006.
11. Borrower has: a) published its strategy of state reform; b) established a high level commission for state
reform and a task team for technical coordination; c) formed task teams in each participating agency with
coordination mechanism with DNP; and d) developed a concept for public marketing of public sector
reform.
The borrower has submitted to Congress the proposal for a bill of law for fiscal responsibility.
18DLAN Resolucion 10537, October 29, 2002
38



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
138. Loan Amount. The proposed (US$300 million) loan in the form of a fixed
spread, U.S.-dollar-denominated loan would be made to the Republic of Colombia.
Disbursements under the proposed program would be made to an account (Deposit
Account) of the Republic of Colombia, established at the Banco de la Republica for this
purpose. The first loan would have one tranche of US$300 million - expected to be
disbursed in March 2003.
D. SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS
139.  The second, third and fourth loans are expected to primarily support the
implementation of the institutional reform process, whose basic foundations will have
been developed with support of the first loan.
140.  Annex m lists the triggers for these future operations. Those triggers will serve
as guideposts to signal progress of decisions/actions towards achieving the objectives of
the reform program. Triggers were chosen on the basis of their importance in the
government's fiscal strengthening program and their contribution to implementation of
subsequent reforms.
141.  The nine key policy measures that make up the individual triggers for the second
loan are listed below. These triggers are critical for the success of the program and their
implementation will form the basis for the preparation and presentation of second loan.
The triggers for the third and fourth operations will be drawn from the government's
program (see Section II of this report) and, in particular, the set of expected key reform
measures set out in the Policy Matrix in Annex m.
Revenue Rigidities and Tax Reform
(1) Government has issued the necessary legislation to regulate the application of Law
788 of 2002
(2) DIAN has: a) developed and implemented software to cross reference information
with financial institutions to ensure that interest reported by them match interest
reported by taxpayers; b) audited at least 50% of large taxpayers affected by the
new taxes; c)established and published indicators of the cost and time required for
compliance by the taxpayer, and d) established unified accounts between customs
and domestic taxes for large taxpayers beginning in 2003.
Expenditure Rigidities and Institutional Reform
(3) Borrower has approved a Constitutional reform that restores budget powers to the
Borrower's Executive Branch, or Government has submitted to Congress
amendments to the organic budget law permitting greater flexibility in annual
spending within present constitutional framework.
(4) Borrower has submitted to popular vote the provision of the Referendum that
reallocates royalty transfers for educational services.
39



Annex 1: Letter oJ Development Policy
(5)  Borrower has issued a CONPES docurnent establishing the new policy for legal
defense of the state, including legal reform if necessary.
(6) Borrower has proposed to Congress the. modifications to the legal bill amending
Law 80 that incorporate the recommendations of CONPES, emphasizing: a)
Common principles for public sector procurement; b) introduction of economic
considerations into the procurement process; and c) institutional framework for
public sector procurement.
(7) Central government has signed management pilot contracts with at least two
government agencies.
(8) Short terrn Asset Management program has produced revenues or savings
equivalent to at least 27,000 million Colombian pesos of 2002.
Fiscal Responsibility
(9) Borrower has approved a Fiscal Responsibility Law acceptable to the Bank, that
contains, at a minimum, rules for: a) setting fiscal targets linked to debt
sustainability and primary balance for the NFPS; b) annual reports of fiscal results
to Congress, including floating debt; c) publication of the financial plan that will
include, among others, information on floating and contingency debt; and d) the
obligation to include the fiscal impact and source of financing within any law that
creates new tax expenditures.
E. FIDUCIARY POLICIES
142.  Environmental Aspects. Being a structural adjustment program, the proposed
operation does not trigger OP 4.01, and, as a consequence, does not require an
environmental rating. The Quality Assurance Team (QAT) has reviewed the Program
Document for the project and determined that it has no direct effect on safeguard issues.
143. Procurement and Financial Administration. The Bank plans to advance work
in two distinct stages. First, a short financial management risk assessment (FMRA)
should be ready by the end of March 2003, then a CFAA should be completed in about
eight months. This new CFAA will raise the questions of: a) how does the current state
of public financial management in Colombia affect the country's efforts to stimulate
economic growth, and b) what remedial measures should be taken to improve the current
state of financial management in the country. Both assessments will contribute to the
design of subsequent loans of the FIAL. In particular, the CFAA team will be able to
contribute relevant Policy- actions which could be embedded in the policy matrix for
upcoming FIALs. Moreover, the FMRA team will advise with regard to audit of the
depository account at the Central Bank. In addition, a Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) was prepared in March 2001.
144.  The program currently takes into consideration the recommendations of the
CPAR and the basic guidance of the previous Country Financial Management
Assessment (CFMA), dated September 2001. As the new CFAA becomes available, the
subsequent loans of the program will incorporate the additional insight into all relevant
areas of the operation, in particular the budgetary reform process.
40



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
145. As mentioned earlier in this document, the Bank is currently financing the
implementation of the MAFPII project, which is a joint effort of MHCP, DNP, and
DIAN. Among its key objectives are the modernization of the public procurement
process (including legal reform), review and reform of the budget process,
implementation of financial management information systems, and support to
government accounting. All of these efforts are compatible with the FLAL and are the
primary source of technical assistance requirements for the implementation of the budget
and procurement related components of the program.
F. BENEFITS
146.  Fiscal Adjustment The reform program supported by the FIAL would put the
NFPS accounts on a more sustainable path. Each of its proposed measures carries fiscal
implications, which are singled out in the projections, through 2006, shown in the
following charts and figures. As shown in Table 6, the reforms are projected to improve
the overall balance of the non-financial public sector by 0.8 percent of GDP in 2003,
relative to the alternative without reforms. Continued pursuit of the reforms, which the
proposed programmatic program will support, is projected to have a fiscal benefit of over
two percent of GDP by 2006. Clearly this will contribute to meeting the CAS high-case
criteria of making the public sector debt sustainable. As reflected in Table 6, reform of
tax policy and tax administration make the largest projected contribution, with the legal
defense of the state and public asset management (horizontal reforms) contributing most
of the rest of the savings. When combined with the constitutional referendum, the
vertical reforms, and the pension and labor reforms just approved by congress, the impact
of the whole reform package is projected to reach 4 percent of GDP primary surplus -as
envisioned in the CAS.
41



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
Figure 5 and 6. NFPS Expenditure and Revenues Excluding Interest
Payments. Alternative Reform Scenarios (2000-2006)
Expenditure                                 Revenue
31      
~30
~29
j2.7 1  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _  ___  __                  _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
27
26                                             28                            .................fi   i
27
25 
-  W*h Refimns  ....... Wm  Ref                      Wh Rd*m=   -.... -..-- Wkibut Refm
147.  The measures supported by the FAL would prevent-and reverse-an otherwise
unsustainable debt and debt-service accumulation, while also protecting social sector
expenditures and vulnerable groups. To achieve these targets, the combination of
policies will enhance revenues and rationalize spending. Those policies include, among
others, budget reforms that will produce efficiency gains that will allow the government
to finance additional programs and reduce the fiscal pressure. The non-financial public
sector deficit of 4 percent of GDP would be virtually eliminated by the year 2006.
Figure 7: NFPS Primaiy Balance
Alternative Reforms Scenarios (2000-2006)
4.5
4.0 -
..3.5-
3.0-
CD  2.5-
.. 1.0  
0.5
0.0
II No Reformis             U With Reforms
42



Annex I. Letter of Development Policy
[Figure 8 Net Public Debt. Alternative Reform Scenarios 2000-2006
65L
60
55
50
45
40
200      200      200      200      200      200      200
35  -           I        2    ,        ,   I    ,        I  6
-     No Rdbn -nWith Refonns
148.   If no reforms were implemented or if these reforms were delayed, the NFPS
would remain on an unsustainable path, and probably spiral into protracted-increasing
deficits. Instead, as a result of the reform package, the public sector's debt path will
change significantly. Colombia's ratio of net public sector debt to GDP would remain on
a more manageable path and stabilize at levels slightly above 50 percent of GDP by 2006
(Figure 8).
43



Annex I. Letter of Development Policy
TABLE 6. PUBLIC SEcTOR EISCAL BALANCES,
SCENARIO WIrH REFORMS (2001-2006)
Percent of GDP'                                                 2001     2002p    2003p       2004p     2005p   206p
Total Revenues                                                   29.3      29.5     29.9      29.6      29.6     29.5
Current Revenues                                                29.3      29.5     29.9      29.6      29.6     29.4
Tax Revenues                                                   19.1      19.3     20.1      2.0.4     20.6     20.7
of which: Tax Administration                                                     0.1       0.2       0.5      0.5
of which: Tax Policy 2                                                           0.6       0.9       1.0      1.1
Non-Tax Revenues                                               10.2      10.2      9.8       9.2       8.9       8.8
Property Income                                                1.3      0.9       0.9       0.8       0.8      0.7
Operational Surplus of Public Enterprises                      4.2      4.6       4.4       3.9       3.7      3.6
Other                                                           4.7      4.7       4.5      4.4       4.4       4.4
of which: Public Asset Management                                                 0.0      0.1       0.1       0.1
Total Expenditure and Net Lending                                33.0      33.9     32.5      31.1      30.7      29.9
Current Expenditures                                           24.7      25.6      25.3     24.6      23.4      22.3
Wages and Salaries                                             7.4       7.6       7.2      6.5       6.4       6.3
of which: Effect of Acto Legislativo4                                           -0.2      -0.3      -0.4      -0.5
Goods and Services andOther                                      3.5      3.7       3.2       3.1      3.0       2.9
Interest                                                       5.0       4.6       5.1      5.1       4.7       4.4
External                                                      2.2       2.2       2.4      2.4       2.3       2.2
Internad                                                      2.7       2.4       2.6      2.7       2.5       2.3
Transfers to Private Sector                                    9.7       9.9      10.0      10.0      9.4       8.8
of which: Savings Due to Legal Defense of the State 5                           -0.3      -0.3      -0.6     -0.7
Other                                                         -0.9       0.0      -0.1     -0.1       0.0       0.0
Capital Expenditure                                              8.2      8.2       7.1       7.1      7.4       7.6
Fixed Capital Formation, cash basis                           8.1      8.1       7.1       7.1       7.3      7.5
Transfers                                                      0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1
Net Lending                                                     0.1       0.1      0.0       0.1       0.0       0.0
Statistical Discrepancy                                         0.3       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
No financial public sector balance                               -3.4      -4A       -2.5     -2.5      -1.1      -Q4
Quasi-fiscal balance                                              0.7       0.6      0.4       0.4       0.5       0.5
FOGAFIN balance                                                   0.2       0.2      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
Net cost of financial restnicturing                              -0.7      -0.5      -0.5     -0.5      -0.2      -0.2
Overall balance                                                  -3.1      -4.0      -2.5      -2.1     .0.7       0.0
Overall Financing                                                 3.1       4.0       2.5      2.1       0.7       0.0
Memorandum itern
NFPS Primary Balance, with reforms                                1.6       0.2      2.6       2.9       3.6       4.0
NFPS Priniar Balance, no reforms                                  1.6       0.2       1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2
Source: Ministry of Ftnance, IMF and World Bank Esimates
1. Annual tax collection increases, on average, by about US$250 million in the 2003-2006 period as a result of increased tax
compliance and enforcement. Tbese are conservative estimates relative to the government's projections.
2. Annual tax collection increases, on average, by about US$700 million in the 2003-2006 period as a result of changes in income tax,
VAT and territorial taxes. These are conservative estimates relative to the government's projections.
3. Annual income form improved management of public assets averages US$60 million in the 2003-2006 period.
4. The annual operating expenses of the public sector fall by about US$280 million, on average, in the 2003-2006 period. The Acto
Legislativo sets a 2 percent ceiling on the real growth rate of transfers from the national to sub-national government. The Acto
Legislativo also sets a 1.5 percent ceilng on the real rate of growth of government operating expenses.
5. Annual savings averaging US$400 milion in the 2002-2005 period result from improved legal defense of the State.
149.     Social     Impact         Colombia's        social    conflict    constitutes      one    of   the   most
determining elements of its fiscal and public sector reform requiremenits and prospects.
The government has successfully established a climate of dialogue and understanding
backed by determined application of its laws to contain social movements within the
constitutional order. It has worked in close collaboration with Congress and political
parties to enact substantial reforms that hacl been impossible to achieve in previous
administrations. Moreover, the government is inviting the population at large to vote on
a referendum that will substantially amend the constitution. The government also offers a
package of vertical and horizontal reforms of the public sector airmed at enhancing
44



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
transparency and accountability, citizen participation in public affairs, public
administrative efficiency, and higher coverage and quality of service delivery.
150.  This project intends to ensure the feasibility and sustainability of this package of
reforms by strengthening the fiscal capacity and the adequacy of government actions,
while simultaneously minimizing risks in the government's comprehensive, multi-sector
reforms. If this package is successfully implemented and maintained after the change of
administration, Colombia should have a public sector that is more responsive to citizen
demands, accountable, and participatory. For the broader citizenry it can be expected that
the reforms will contribute to better service delivery and a more transparent form of
government.
151.  The public sector reform process includes the elimination of at least 40,000 jobs
in the central administration, of which 30,000 will come from the elimination of the posts
of employees who reach retirement during the next few years, and the rest from the
elimination of staffed positions. All staff deemed redundant will receive the legally
established severance package, and those who are not legally entitled to removal benefits
(such as temporary or directly appointed staff) will receive at least one year's salary as
severance. In addition, all those who lose their employment will be entitled to participate
in a retraining and career counseling program. Finally, the government has indicated its
commitment to the protection of vulnerable groups and will ensure that single mothers
without job alternatives, the handicapped, and those about to reach retirement age will
not be removed.
152.  The social impact of the program will be closely monitored jointly by the
borrower and the Bank. Assessments will measure the family income effect and the
overall poverty and inequality effect on the basis of the country's household surveys.
153.  Poverty Impact The proposed FIAL will contribute to poverty reduction at all
levels. First, it will help protect the macroeconomic framework of the country by
reducing the likelihood of widespread government fiscal crises. This is important since,
as noted, the Bank's analysis shows that negative macro shocks are the most important
cause of poverty increases in Colombia. Second, the various proposed sectoral reforms
which FIAL would support should sustain economic recovery, consolidate economic
growth in the medium and long term, and reduce poverty. It also bears repeating that
economic growth continues to be the major source of poverty reduction and social
stability in Colombia.
154.  Third, the FLAL will also ensure that through the fiscal strengthening program, in
particular the tax reforms, more resources will become available to help ensure the
allocation of adequate public resources to social programs and reduce the insecurity that
affects particularly those that lack the resources to protect themselves. This is especially
pertinent for education and health, facilitating the provision of public services for the
poor. Fourth, the FIAL supports measures to improve the efficiency and coverage of
these services, benefiting the poor directly. This is to be achieved through better
budgeting, the results agreements and their evaluation, and more transparent
procurement. These together should ensure that essential public services are more
efficiently available to those who could not otherwise obtain them on their own.
45



Annex I: Letter of L)evelopment Policy
G. RisKis
155. The proposed program carries considerable risks. With regard to internal risks,
the first is that the overall political context, including the conflict and violence associated
with illegal drug activity, could escalate, which would negatively impact the
implementation of the program. Although Colombia is deeply committed to ending the
violence that has plagued the country for decades, and has obtained the pledge of the
international community to support this endeavor, the conflict could still intensify during
the next few years. The FIAL supports reforms that will help liberate resources to
address the country's priorities during transition from the conflict to the post-conflict era.
The FIAL will also support introduction of institutional reforms that would help
consolidate peace and stability during the post-conflict era.
156. Second, due to the internal conflict the government may be unable to endure
prolonged social disruptions and resistance from major interest groups (such as teachers
and health sector unions) that could derail the reform agenda and lead to more social and
political instability. The government is reducing this risk by working together with
political parties, congress, the judiciary and independent auditing and control agencies in
the formation of a broad-based state coalition that ensures continuity of reforms within
the public sector. The program supported by the proposed loan promotes the joint effort
of all branches of the Colombian state, private capital and civil society through built in
participatory, consultation and other consensus building mechanisms.  Consensus
building instruments have been incorporated in each one of the proposed components and
in the overall management of the reform process. If successfully applied, consultation
and evaluation should be sufficient to mobilize government and non-government
institutions in support of the reforms and overcome resistance from particular interests
that have previously captured the state.
157.  Although President Uribe won the elections with a substantial majority, it is not
certain that he will be able to maintain the needed level of support to implement
important reforms.  Congress could block or alter policy initiatives and/or the
Constitutional Court could reverse key reforms. This risk is lessened because the reform
program proposed by the Uribe Administration has the support of both major political
parties and the government reform program, including initial reform measures, has been
fully endorsed by the vast majority of the population. Furthermore, the composition of
the Constitutional Court has changed and its recent rulings have been more pragmatic and
market-oriented.
158. The Referendum approved by Congress on December 2002 that contains most of
these reforms will be placed before the people in 2003. In this connection, and in order
to avoid delays in advancing the government's program, most of those reforms that
require Congressional approval were included up front -and have been largely approved
by Congress-- during the first year in the program. Congressional approval of long-
pending reforms such as pensions, tax or labor is by itself an indication of the
government capacity to mobilize legislative and country-wide support in favor of reforms
that had been impossible to achieve during the previous decade. Besides, the government
has put together a dissemination and participation strategy geared to ensure discussion,
mobilization and ownership from civil society.
46



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
159.  There is of course the risk that the Referendum approved by Congress will not be
supported by the population. The government is already planning on substitute measures
in case the Referendum is not approved by the people. Those substitute measures would
include: i) gradual elimination of some special pension regimes through legal reform and
collective bargaining; ii) law reform proposals and administrative measures to ensure
expenditure cuts and additional tax revenues with a fiscal effect that is at least equivalent
to the expected impact of current expenditure freeze, and iii) national government put
pressure on subnational governments that currently receive royalty transfers to
concentrate their project proposals in the education sector.
160. Third, through external or internal shocks, the fiscal situation may deteriorate,
which would jeopardize the macroeconomic situation. The World Bank program, and
that of the IMF and IDB, are intended to lessen this risk by demonstrating active, visible
support of the government's proposed fiscal and public sector adjustments.  The
macroeconomic situation may also be weakened by external factors such as regional
political or economic instability or further deterioration of the terms of trade. On balance
consequently, the FHAL is judged to be a "high-risk, high-return" program. Therefore, it
will be essential to maintain a close working relationship with the client, and to provide
ample, ongoing dialogue and assistance during the implementation period. To this end,
the parallel TAL (MAFPH) will provide an important opportunity for the Bank to closely
accompany the program. The supervision activities of MAFPII will be a fundamental
vehicle to maintain frequent coordination with the Government counterparts. All these
reflect the belief that, as this program would form the core of the Bank's interventions in
Colombia, its successful implementation will be critical.
47



Annex!: Letter of Development Policy
Annex I
(Translated from Original in Spanish)
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
AND NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY TO THE WORLD BANK
BogotA, January 20, 2003
48






Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Bogot, January 20, 2003
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Since the inception of the Uribe-Velez Administration in August of 2002, the intention to
significantly expand the World Bank's assistance strategy for Colombia (CAS) has been
one of the most important signs of support to our country. The credit program
announcements on part of the multilateral development agencies, specially of the World
Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, encouraged the recovery of the
confidence in the stability of the Colombian economy and helped restore access to the
markets. This expression of confidence has been fundamental for the accomplishment of
an ambitious program of reforms, many of which have been passed by the Colombian
Congress.
Since the 1998-1999 crisis, Colombia has reduced the imbalances that threatened
economic growth and social progress. Inflation has been reduced, financial stability has
been restored and private activity has recovered, albeit not yet fully.. However, poverty
has increased in tandem with the deterioration of the labor indicators. Considering that
internal security, building social equity and economic recovery are the highest priorities
of the Government, the new administration is fully committed with fiscal stability and
sustainability and the implementation of the structural reforms required to carry out the
necessary changes that would allow all Colombians to benefit from the opportunities
offered by a healthy economy.
Attached to this letter, we provide a document on the recent evolution of the country's
economic situation and, within that context, a synthesis of the objectives and the content
of the policies and reforms that we have undertaken. The program of the new
administration increases fiscal revenue, reduces unproductive public expenditures, attacks
corruption, supports economic recovery and seeks to promote a better income distribution
and a more extensive and efficient provision of social services that offer genuine
opportunities for all Colombians.
The National Government is committed to building a Communitarian State (Estado
Comunitario): a State with one legitimate authority where the violent population hold no
power, at the service of the citizens and free of the ravaging effects of corruption and
clientelismo. A State that focuses its efforts on the eradication of poverty, in the search
for social justice and security conditions. A State that makes an effort so that the
resources reach the citizens. A State for the people, which assumes the political
49



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
responsibility of bringing in citizen participation in the definition of public actions, as
well as in their implementation and monitoring.
The Government recognizes some risks that may threaten the appropriate
implementation of its program, including an unforeseen increase in security expenditures,
insufficient support to the economic initiatives included in the referendum and higher
volatility in external markets. Aware of these risks, the Government has identified
contingency measures designed to safeguard the program. These include additional
taxes and early implementation of some measures discussed in this document.
Finally, the Government is committed with the program hereby presented in this
document and is pleased to count with the World Bank's partnership and financial
support. In support of the measures already taken and implemented, the Government
would appreciate the prompt consideration by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors
of the first programmatic fiscal and institutional structural adjustment loan, foreseen in
the CAS for Colombia for period 2003-2006. The Government is available to assist the
Bank's technical team to jointly define future loans of the program as the Tax ,State,
Territorial Fiscal, Financial and Social Reforms are consolidated.
Sincerely,
(original signed)                           (original signed)
ROBERTO JUNGUITO BONNET               SANTIAGO MONTENEGRO TRUJILLO
Minister of Finance                   National Planning Department
50



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
I. THE CONTEXT. MACROECONOMIC SITUATION AND SECURITY
A. The Context
1.    The present panorama facing Colombia is worrisome: the insecurity problem is
well known and there are other problems of equal or greater importance. The country-
.wide rate of unemployment reached 16% in 2002,-one point higher than the previous
year. Despite the increase of Government expenditures and the significant increase in the
number of agencies of the central Government, the deterioration of social indicators has
been evident. Moreover, the growing public expenditure has contributed to the
deterioration of the country's public finances.
2. The legitimacy of the State has been damaged by the perverse effects of corruption,
clientelismo and politicking. Recent surveys indicate that the percentage of citizens who
are not satisfied with the country's democratic regime and distrust Congress is among
the highest in Latin America. The absence of tangible social improvements makes that
perception even worse.
B. Recent Evolution
3.    Colombia has achieved considerable macroeconomic stability since the crisis of
1998-1999, in spite of the growing seriousness of violence and the existence of an
adverse international environment. Fiscal consolidation has advanced, inflation has been
reduced and the financial system has been restructured. By the beginning of the year
2002, these achievements permitted-access to international credit markets and guaranteed
the stability of the exchange rate.
4.    Nevertheless, during 2002, the country suffered the consequences of the regional
instability: the spreads of sovereign bonds increased considerably and the peso was
consequently devalued. This situation was aggravated by the increase in the fiscal deficit
and by the recent, unprecedented escalation in the armed conflict, brought about by
uneven progress in the peace process of the time.
5.    On the other hand, it should be remembered that in recent years the armed conflict
has intensified dramatically. Between 1986-1999 and 1999-2001 the number of attacks
on the petroleum infrastructure was up-by 160%, the blowing up of electricity towers was
up 680% and kidnappings were up 126%. The worsening of the conflict only has not
only increased capital flight and brain drain but has also diminished the productivity of
the economy and private investment. Various estimates show that the armed conflict
reduces the annual rate of growth of the econorny in at least two percentage points each
year.
6.    In order to finance the strategy torestore security, which is one of the priority
objectives of the Government, a transitory and highly progressive tax of 1.2% on net
assets was introduced on individuals and corporations. The additional income is
51



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
estimated at 1% of the GDP (collected from September of 2002 through June of 2003).
The totality of these revenues will be dedicated to strengthening Democratic Security.
7.    Faced with an adverse regional environment and huge fiscal problems, the new
Government acted quickly. First, it proposed (and managed to approve) important
budgetary cuts for the year 2003, resulting in the growth of non-interest Government
expenditures at a rate lower than inflation. Second, it established a one time tax on assets
and presented to Congress an unprecedented package of tax measures and control of
expenditures. And third, it enacted decrees that trimmed expenditures, entitlements and
subsidies: the rate for the Certificate of Tax Refund (CERT) was reduced to zero, fringe
benefits were reduced and the vacancies that had not been filled as of July 2002 were
eliminated. In parallel, the Government initiated the design and establishment of an
ambitious program to reduce and restructure the public administration.
8.    In December, Congress approved the Financial Reform that raises the sectoral
regulatory framework to the level of international standards for regulation and banking
supervision. The financial reform emphasizes the development of mechanisms that
permit an early detection of companies in difficulties and attention to companies in crisis.
Along these lines, of special importance is the treatment of assets and liabilities; the
administration of the Central de Inversiones, CISA; the consecration of new operations,
especially with reference to housing leases and micro-credit; and measures related to
divulging information and the administrative enforcement applicable to financial entities.
9.    The Government is conscious that debt sustainability should have its foundation
in solid structural reforms and not on optimistic scenarios of economic growth or
assumptions about the behavior of the exchange rate or the interest rate. The
Government program is based on three pillars: recuperate security, achieve
macroeconomic stability and transform a corrupt and clientelist state into one that is
transparent and produces clear and profound changes in the social fabric of the country.
Undoubtedly, the support of the World Bank is fundamental for the advancement of these
reforms. The support of the Bank is particularly essential at this time, while interest rates
paid by the country remain high: nearly 25% of the expenditure of the National
Government is destined to interest payments.
10.   During 2002 the real increase of the GNP was around 1.7%, inflation was 6.99%,
the current account deficit remained at levels around 1.8% of GDP and net international
reserves increased by approximately US$ 220 million. In 2003 we expect renewed
economic growth with stability: a growth rate between 2% and 2.5%, inflation between
5% and 6% and the current account deficit reduced to 0.8% of the GNP.
11.   On the fiscal side, upon finalizing the year 2002, the consolidated deficit was 4%
of the GDP, 1,4 points above the target initially agreed with the International Monetary
Fund. This deviation is explained, in good measure, by the greater expenditures
(associated in part with the electoral process) and by the declining economic growth in
2001 and in the first semester of 2002, which adversely affected revenue collections.
52



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
12.   In 2003, it is projected that the fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector will
be cut to 2.5% of the GDP. In order to reach this fiscal objective, the Government has
put in place a strategy that has two main elements. First, the law of Referendum which,
once approved, will freeze the operational expenses of the State in nominal terms during
2003 and 2004. The direct savings expected by this initiative will be 0.7% of GDP (Col.
$1.5 trillion) in 2003 and 0.5% of GDP (Col. $1.2 trillion) in 2004. Second, the tax
reform will increase revenue by 1% of GDP during 2003 and 2004 and byl.8% from
2005 onward. These resources will be obtained, mainly, by means of a drastic
broadening of the tax base of the VAT, a gradual reduction of income tax exemptions, a
surtax on the income tax and a series of improvements in tax administration.
13. The program of the Government is oriented to guarantee fiscal sustainability and,
ultimately, to recover security and economic growth and to increase social equity.
The fiscal adjustment and the structural reforms will ensure that these objectives are
reached within a framework of macroeconomic stability, supported by prudent
monetary policy and the strengthening of the financial system, while at the same time
strengthening social assistance programs, expanding education and health coverage
and mitigating the impact of the increases in the tariffs of public utilities on the
poorest.
C. The Perspectives 2002 - 2006
14. The macroeconomic outlook for the next four years forecasts the current account
deficit between 0.8% and 1.9% of GDP, and a rate of investment that increases
from 13,7% to 14,6% of GDP. As a result, the domestic savings rate increases from
11,9% to 12,6% of GDP. In this way, the financing of the capital account will be
covered by direct foreign investment and the net indebtedness of the public and
private sectors.
15. On the other hand, the private sector will anticipate an adjustment in the balance of
savings and investment between 0,2% and 1,6% of the GDP as result of the recovery
of private investment. This private adjustment is necessary to make the public
adjustment viable. Both the direct foreign investment and net external financing of
the private sector will finance the external deficit of the current account, which in
effect means that the private sector will have an important role in financing the
investment that will take place during the following four years.
16. The overall public sector balance shows a deficit that is financed with internal credit
(between 2,1% and 1,7% of GDP) and external credit (between 0,3% and 0,4% of
GDP). The gradual adjustment of the excess expenditure in the public sector will be
financed with the savings generated by the adjustment of the private sector. The
credibility of the adjustment in the public sector is underpinned by th-e scope of the
comprehensive structural reforms that are advancing.
17.   The fiscal consolidation will continue in the medium term. It is expected that the
economic conditions will improve in 2004 and that the real growth of GDP will exceed 3
53



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
percent from that year onward. The higher deficit would be financed by direct
investment, the continuous support of the multilateral banks, and access to the
international financial markets. Monetary policy will be managed to support a moderate
reduction in inflation within a framework plan of target inflation rates and a floating
exchange rate.
18.   The public sector deficit will be reduced to 2.1 percent of GDP in 2004, with the
support of the measures presented above. The adjustment will reduce the debt of the non
financial public sector to less than 50 percent of GDP. The Government expects that the
sustained reduction of the debt, the continuous improvement in the indicators of
economic vulnerability and the sound economic management will increase confidence,
improve the Colombian credit rating and reduce the cost of acquiring debt.
19. Strengthening public finances is one of the central strategies for recovering
confidence and economic growth. An explicit objective is to reduce the deficit of the
consolidated public sector from 4.0% of GDP in 2002 to 2.5% in 2003, and to continue
the consolidation of the process in the following years. The fiscal adjustment will
increase the primary surplus of the non financial public sector from 0.7% of GDP to
3.0%.
D. The Stand-By Program with the International Monetary Fund
20.   Within its macroeconomic policy framework, the Colombian Government signed
a Stand By Agreement (SBA) with the IMF for SDR 1.548 million for the upcoming
two years. One of the main objectives of the program is the reduction of the fiscal deficit
by two points of GDP. This reduction will be achieved through the higher tax revenues
expected from the newly enacted tax reform and with the proposed freeze in current
expenditures for a period of two years. In the medium term, structural reforms such as
the Pension Reform - recently approved by Congress- and the public sector
modernization program, will contribute to ensure debt sustainability and consolidate the
process of adjustment initiated by the Government. The SBA includes a non financial
public sector deficit target of 2.5% of GDP, a current account deficit of 0.8% of GDP
and an inflation rate between 5 and 6% for 2003.
II. OBJECTIVES OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PLAN
A. Democratic security
21.   The Government has initiated a strategy that will allow it to offer security to all
sectors of society, consolidate the State's control of the national territory and to recover
control over the zones with influence of illegal armed groups. The concept of
Democratic Security launched by the Government goes beyond that of national security,
understood as the capacity of the State to penalize and to dissuade those who oppose the
rule of law. As put forward by the Government, the adjective "democratic" means
security for all in a context of profound respect for human rights.
54



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
22. "Democratic Security" is a vital element for the recovery of confidence and,
therefore, for economic growth. The strategy of Democratic Security has as first
objective the punishment and the dissuasion of violence and the control of drug-
trafficking, with the viability of democracy and the legitimacy of the State as ultimate
objectives.
23.   Specifically, the Government is advancing initiatives to achieve greater
development and institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Defense. The armed
forces and the national police are adapting their institutional structures for the
implementation of the national security policy. For the Government, achieving security
is a collective process. The foundations of this process are based upon conflict resolution
through non-violent means. Institutions such as the Defensorfa (human rights defendant),
the Procuraduria (vigilance of public administration) and the Fiscalia (General
Attorney's Office) are key entities for the success of this policy and each of them will be
strengthened in the process. Following the principles of transparency and accountability,
the Government will seek to communicate and systematically explain, to both national
and international audiences, the policies and actions that the Government will apply
within this framework.
B. Sustainable Economic Growth and Employment
24.   Part of the strategy for economic recovery of the Government will be focused on
housing sector and construction. To this effect, the Government has designed a strategy
that includes an impulse to low-income housing and a package of stimuli for the
reactivation of mortgage credit markets and, through reactivation mortgage markets, new
housing construction for middle and high income groups. These measures, combined
with a competitive exchange rate, a low interest rate and the application of trade
preferences given to the Andean countries, will contribute to lead economic growth in the
short term.
25.   The ensure growth sustainability in the long term, the Government will introduce
legislative, regulatory and institutional changes geared to stimulate private sector
participation in infrastructure, mining and public utilities. These changes will not only
attract additional investment (foreign and domestic), but will also help compensate the
deficit in strategic infrastructure that, nowadays, hinders economic growth. By the same
token, the Government will continue setting the bases for an orderly insertion of the
national economy in the world economy and will give an unprecedented impulse to the
formation of human capital at all the levels. Given current fiscal restrictions, the
emphasis of growth policies lies in stimulating private sector participation in strategic
economic sectors, expanding the impact of public investments and eliminating the
bureaucratic obstacles and other impediments that constrain private initiative. The
Government policy of democratic security referred to previously, complements these
growth policies by offering peace and greater confidence to all those that have a
potential interest in investing in the country.
55



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
C. Equity and Social Protection
26.   In order to reach the objective of a more equitable society, where all citizens
share the fruits of economic growth and improved public services, the Government's
social policies must face three main challenges: a) to increase the efficiency of social
expenditures so that higher expenditures translate into better results; b) to improve
expenditure targeting so that resources reach those who need them the most, and c) to
consolidate a system of social protection so that economic crises do not compromise the
future possibilities of the most vulnerable groups. By taking care of those challenges
social investment will produce expected results and, ultimately, a more equitable society.
27.   The Government gives priority to the consolidation of strategy that protects the
poorest and most vulnerable population by means of preventive instruments and social
assistance. To this effect, the Government will implement the following measures:
1. The System for Identification of Beneficiaries (SISBEN), will be brought up to
date to correct its current design and implementation problems.
2. Special attention will be given to the needs of the internally displaced population.
Actions will be focused on the regions that receive the largest inflows of
displaced persons. It will be ensured that barriers of access do not exist that
restrict the access of displaced persons to health and education programs.
3. The management of the main social programs will be gradually decentralized
(including the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare -ICBF- and the National
Service for Technical Training -SENA-). Outsourcing alternatives that involve
the private sector and non-Governmental organizations, NGOs, will be explored.
4. The impact of the programs of the Network of Social Support (Red de Apoyo
Social, RAS) will be evaluated and some of these will be transferred to the new
Ministry of Labor and Social Security. These programs will be financed on a
more permanent basis.
5. A counter-cyclical element will be established within the social safety net,
consisting of the creation of a fund that accumulates resources during periods of
economic expansion in order to spend them during times of macroeconomic
crisis.
D. Renewal of the Public Administration
28.   The National Government is committed to reforming both the public
administration and interregional relations in the country. The present size and structure of
the public sector favor inefficiency, corruption and waste. Likewise, the lack of clarity
about the responsibilities among different levels of Government allows for inefficiencies
and has hindered the process of decentralization.
56



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
29.   In view of all the above, the Government will promote an integral reform of the
public administration and will lead a transformation of the relations between
municipalities, departments and the Nation.
III. THE FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Objective and Components of the Program
30.   The Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Program to be financed with resources
from the World Bank has the objective of accompanying the Government of Colombia in
the process of fiscal adjustment and in the introduction of public management tools that
will permit a transparent and efficient administration and allocation of scarce public
resources.
31.   For achieving this objective, the Government has identified a package of
structural measures that will lead to an increase in fiscal revenues by means of an
effective expansion of the tax base and the elimination of tax exemptions, the progressive
addition of flexibility to budgetary expenditures, the introduction of fiscal responsibility
principles and the integration of the budgetary system, enhanced transparency in the
mechanisms of procurement and contracting, and the restructuring of the public
employment introducing "meritocracia" and the evaluation of performance. We will
refer to each one of them subsequently:
1. The Reform to Tax Policy and Tax Administration
32.   On December 20,2002 the Congress approved the Tax Reform that, among other
things, will increase the VAT rate of 10 percent applicable to some products to the
general rate of 16 percent and will expand the base of said tax. The articles that were
added to the base, including some industrialized food products, will be taxed at 7 percent.
The tax reform includes a one-year surcharge to all income taxes, the decrease of the
deductions of some of the territorial taxes from the income tax base, and a ceiling to the
overall exemptions for higher income individuals. Finally, the tax reform will allow an
improvement in controlling evasion through the application of new measures and stricter
penalties and by closing the channels of evasion in the financial transactions tax. At the
territorial level, the reform proposes to simplify the excise tax on alcoholic beverages and
to increase the gasoline tax surcharge. The increase in tax collection will be of 1% of
GDP in 2003 and 2004. From 2005 onward, all the goods excluded or exempt will be
subject to a 2 percent VAT rate. The expansion of the base is a fundamental pillar in the
fight against tax evasion and the introduction of a culture of fiscal responsibility.
2. Freeze of current expenditures
33.   The Government has proposed to freeze, in nominal terms, a good part of the
public sector's current expenditures during the next two years. The lowest salaries and
pensions are excluded, as are military expenditures, which will increase by 0.3% of GDP
in 2002 and 0.6% in 2003. This measure will be voted in a national referendum at the
57



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
beginning of 2003 and, if approved, will generate savings of 0.7% of GDP in 2003 and
1.2 percent in 2004. The savings achieved by local entities, due to the freeze of salaries
and pensions, will be assigned to the territorial fund of pensions of the Government
(FONPET) and to other funds of public pensions.
3. Pension Reform
34.   On December 20, 2002 Congress approved the reforms to the general system of
pensions and granted special authority to the Government to strengthen the finances of
the Armed Forces pensions regime. The new law increases the rates of contribution by
two percentage points. The period of contribution expands from 1000 to 1050 weeks
beginning in 2005 and by25 weeks per year thereafter, reaching a maximum of 1,300
weeks in 2013. The rate of replacement and the ceiling of the pension are diminished
substantially for those that have a liquidation base salary above6 minimum salaries.
Besides, the Government has proposed in the referendum law to limit all the new
pensions under public sector responsibility to 25 minimum salaries, and to require the
same age and period of contribution for all those affiliated. All this is complemented
with a disposition that would eliminate all the special regimes starting in 2008.
Notwithstanding the effects of the elimination of the special regimes, the reform will
reduce the net present value of the pension liabilities of the public sector from 210 to 168
percent of GDP and will generate fiscal savings that will increase from 0.1 percent of
GDP in 2003 to 1 percent in 2010, when the transition to the new scheme takes place.
4. Fiscal Responsibility Law
35.   The Government expects that the fiscal responsibility law will be approved by
Congress in early 2003. The Government bill has already passed through the Chamber of
Deputies and must now be passed by the Senate. The law would force the Government
to establish and publish primary surplus targets for the not financial public sector for ten
years, in order to ensure fiscal consistency with the sustainability of public debt.
5. Modernization and Rationalization of the Public Administration
36.   The Government has taken several actions towards modernization and
rationalization of the public administration through the merging of ministries, the
elimination of unnecessary agencies and offices, the closure of some diplomatic
representations, the abolition of preferential lending and the suppression of vacancies.
These actions form part of an integral reform to restructure and reduce the state
bureaucracy. The objectives of the reform of the State aim not only to consolidate the
fiscal adjustment, but also to increase the efficiency of public expenditure.
37.   The reform of the public administration includes the elimination of at least 40,000
posts in the central administration: thirty thousand correspond to the suppression of the
vacancies generated by those that will retire in the next few years, and the remainder to
the elimination of staffed posts. The severed personnel will be compensated with all
benefits established by law and, for those whom norms do not recognize benefits (staff of
58



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
free appointment and removal or temporary), a benefit of at least one year of salary will
be granted. All the persons affected by the institutional renovation program, will have
access to a labor protection plan (PPL) whose main objectives are professional training
and labor reallocation. Finally, the Government is committed to protect those most
vulnerable during this process and will ensure labor stability for the mothers who are the
head of family who don't have other economic alternative, the disabled and those that
are close to retirement.
38.   The Government has estimated that the savings generated by the implementation
of these measures will increase from 0.1% of GDP in 2003 to 0.6 percent in 2005. It is
important to emphasize that in December Congress approved a Law that grants an
extraordinary authority to the President to carry out the reforms described.
39.   In order for the size of the administration's labor force to be the adequate, goals
have been set for a reduction in the operational costs and for an increase in the
proportion of officials assigned to of core tasks. Within these objectives, all entities of
the national level are found in a process of institutional reengineering.
40.   The process of renovating the administration emphasizes the need of re-thinking
the sectors, analyzing -independently of the present situation- which should be the role of
the State in each one of them. This exercise, (e.g. the need to adjust the organizational
structures of the sector head entities, their institutional networks and their human
resources), represents what have been called the "Vertical Reforms", which are those that
are done in the sectoral context, covering from the entity head of the sector down to all
linked agencies.
41.   The guidelines for the implementation of this program were established in the
document "Directiva Presidencial" N 10 of 2002 and the guiding principles and
methodological procedures were prepared by the DNP and distributed through the several
"Circulares Instructivas". According to these Circulares, the main objectives of the
vertical reforms in each sector should be the following: (i) re-think the role that the State
should play in the sector; (ii) design an organizational structure for the sector head entity
coherent with its obligations, redefined in function of the new sectorial concept; (iii)
design an institutional network coherent with the effective and efficient exercise of the
core functions that the State should fulfill within the sector; and (iv) rationalize the
payroll of the public administration and, consequently, reduce the operational
expenditures of the state apparatus, freeing resources that will be reallocated to the
provision of goods and services to the citizens.
42.   The vertical reforms also include also the restructuring of at least 30 decentralized
entities under the premise that its permanence depends upon their financial viability.
Among the entities subject to restructuring are the Colombian Institute of Social Security
(ISS), TELECOM, ECOPETROL, several regional electric companies and a large
number of public hospitals.
59



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
43.   One of the most important characteristics of the Program of Renovation of the
Public Administration is the comprehensiveness of the process. In this sense, it includes
a series of specific measures that have been identified as crucial to an improved public
sector and for the financial sustainability of the State. These reforms have been defined
as transversal, since they influence all the sectors of the State.
44.   The following are some of these transversal policies: (i) a reform of the system of
public procurement and contracting (ii) the establishment of a Government strategy (with
the corresponding institution building) for the legal defense of the State, (iii) the design
of a comprehensive policy for the productive management of the assets of the State, (iv)
the establishment of a results evaluation system and monitoring of policy implementation
for the totality of the departments, (v) a reform of the system of public sector
employment, (vi) a reform of the agencies of regulation and control, (vii) a reform of the
budgetary system, (viii) the unification of the information systems within the State and
from the State with the citizens, (ix) the strengthening of electronic Government, (x) a
strategy to simplify procedures and (xi) a policy of regulatory rationalization.
45.   Subsequent paragraphs describe in detail the objectives of each one of these
"transversal reforms".
46.   Public employment. The objective of this initiative is to define an integral policy
for public employment and to design and implement a new institutional management for
the personnel at the service of the state. A new institutional plan for regulation and
administration will centralize the formulation of human resource policies, including
issuance of new rules, and will decentralize management, leaving policy implementation
in the hands of the head of each entity.
47.   Systems of purchases and contracting. The reform of public procurement is the
core stone of the anti-corruption strategy of the Government. With this reform the state
entities will disclose its programs and budgets for contracting and investment and the
particular features of the investment projects that will be undertaken; procurement of
goods and services will follow public bidding procedures and winners will be selected by
auction. Each state agency will adopt audits of quality and service delivery to citizens;
citizen control will be stimulated and the Government will propose a reform of Law 80 of
1993.
48.   Legal defense of the State. The objective of this reform is to design an integral
strategy to strengthen the legal and judicial capacity of the state to protect itself from
legal claims. This reform seeks to reduce the number and the fiscal impact of legal claims
and judicial decisions against the state. The Government is committed to preparing a
diagnosis that lays the ground for the development of a preventive strategy, including the
design of a "system of safeguards and quality protection", with special provisions for the
high risk sectors (communications, energy, road -infrastructure, concessions, etc.). The
Government strategy will propose alternative mechanisms for legal protection of the
state, will identify the legal assumptions and judicial interpretations that work against the
60



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
interests of the State, will preventive and remedial actions and will explore the
convenience of a Government proposal for the reform of the judiciary.
49.   Asset Management. The objective of this initiative is to establish a policy for the
administration of state assets, including the processes for acquisition, assignment, use and
disposition. This reform initiative seeks that the administration of state assets responds to
the general interest of the Nation regarding security, productivity, efficacy and efficiency.
Once the Government has prepared the inventory of assets and has established
mechanisms for their appraisal and legal titling, it will define a timetable for
institutionalization of asset management. Likewise, the Government expects to formulate
a legal framework for the acquisition, registration and use of new assets by public
agencies.
50.   Budgetary system. The national Government is committed to redesigning public
expenditure policies and reviewing the institutional framework for the state budget. The
Government is conscious of the need to define priorities for the allocation of scarce
resources and understands that the budget is one of the fundamental tools to accomplish
this purpose. The present distribution of the public expenditure budget follows, in good
measure, numbers of laws that demand resource allocation in such a way that create
severe inflexibilities and limit the capacity of the budget to effectively operate as an
economic policy instrument.
51.   It is necessary to redesign budgetary institutions in order to transform the budget
into a key instrument for fiscal policy and to strengthen revenue and expenditure
management. Fiscal discipline, flexible budget and technical efficiency shall be the main
objectives of the budget system reform. Accountability and transparency mechanisms in
budget management will be enhanced at the same time.
52.   The objective of budget reform is to establish a comprehensive strategy that aims
at the rationalization of planning, allocation, execution and control of public revenues and
expenditures. The reform should achieve a more transparent resource allocation in line
with national priorities, deeper fiscal stability, better functioning of the state machinery
(including the procurement system), and the use of the budget as an effective tool to
evaluate public sector performance on the basis of results.
53.   With that purpose in mind, the budget system reform will encompass the revision
of those parts of the legal framework that introduce rigidities in resource allocation and
budget execution. The reform will also pursue a better integration between current and
capital expenditures in order to ensure a more efficient and sustainable articulation of
public expenditure.
54.   Management by results. The objective of this reform is to formulate a
comprehensive public management policy that aligns the rationality of public managers
with state interests under a new incentive framework geared to more substantive results
and expenditure efficiency. The long term vision is to link budget preparation and,
61



Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
whenever possible, resource allocation, with the results expected from each government
sector.
55.   Regulatory, supervision and control agencies. The purpose of this reform is to
establish a policy framework for regulatory, supervision and control actions. The policy
will seek to establish the most appropriate institutional framework, including new
instruments and distribution of responsibilities. The new policy will establish the
principles that should guide regulation, supervision and control by state agencies,
including the principle of reduction of transaction costs for the state as well as for those
that whose activities are regulated, supervised orcontrolled.
56.   Information systems. The Government intends to evaluate the current situation
regarding basic information needed for public management and to propose a
comprehensive strategy to enhance that situation. The new strategy will include proposals
for new institutional arrangements and optimal coopeiration between public and private
sectors. It will seek to strengthen the transparency and reliability of corresponding
information.
57.   E-Government. The objective of this strategy is to define a policy for introducing
and ensuring the sustainability of information technology uses in state activities, both in
activities that are internal to each public agency and in activities that bring public
agencies in contact with other public entities, private sector or citizens at large.
58.   Strategy to simplify procedures (Anti-trdmites). This reform seeks to establish a
policy framework that permits simplification and ovetall rationalization of public
administration procedures, either internal to the administration or in relation with
citizens. The rationalization of procedures will be guided by the cost-benefit analysis of
procedural reform.
59.   Rationalization of the legal framework. This reform will seek to enact a general
rule that lists precisely all the requirements that must be met by laws and administrative
rules (decrees, resoluciones, circulares, ordenanzas, acuerdos) --especially in their
relation with previous rules-- with the purpose of improving quality control in the process
of preparation and in the contents of those norms that are in force and have to be applied.
The Government will propose to reduce the current number of rules to a smaller set of
rules of better quality and will propose the principles for their issuance as well as the
institutional mechanisms by which citizens can exercise control over its application.
Finally, the Government will define a strategy and methodology to replicate the
rationalization of the legal framework at the local and regional levels of public
administration.
B. Coordination of Actions with multilateral agencies
60.   Keeping in mind the important scope of the Government program for the
Renovation of Public Administration and the huge national effort required to implement
it, the Government has requested the support and the financial and technical aid of
62



Annex I: Letter of Development Policy
several multilateral agencies. In this regard, the World Bank will support the following
areas: asset management; judicial and legal defense of the State; budgetary system,
management by results and procurement and contracting.
61.   On the other hand, the Inter-American Development Bank, will support the
Government in the implementation of the activities that are part of the vertical reforms
insofar as: public employment, regulatory agencies, supervision and control; information
systems; electronic Government, strategy to simplify procedures and rationalization of
the legal framework.
IV. Conclusions and results expected
62.   The application of the package of policies and actions put together by the
Government, part of which are included in the Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment
Program to be financed with resources of the World Bank, will permit the country to
faithfully follow the mandates of the National Plan of Development that seek to fulfill
citizen demands in the areas of democratic security, growth, social equity, transparency
and efficiency of the State.
63.   Finally, the Government is committed to the program presented above and sees
with great pleasure the financial support of the World Bank to this reform program. In
support to the measures taken and implemented, The Government will appreciate the
prompt consideration of the Board of Directors of the Bank to the first programmatic
fiscal and institutional adjustment credit, contemplated in the CAS for Colombia for the
period 2003-2006, in support of those policy measures recently adopted and
implemented. The Government will be available to the technical teams of the Bank for
jointly defining future loan programs while ongoing Tax, Subnational Fiscal, Financial
and Social reforms are consolidated.
63






Annex 11
Annex II
Fund Relations Note
International Monetary Fund
Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 03/09        700 19th Street, NW
January 23, 2003                                 Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
Colombia: Public Information Notice
On January 15,2003 the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
concluded the Article IV consultation with Colombia.'
Background
The Colombian economy has staged a steady, albeit slow recovery'since the 1998-
99 crisis. Macroeconomic stabilization has been achieved, and robust fiscal and
structural policies during most of the period since then have allowed the country to
avoid some of the difficulties faced by other economies in the region. This is all the
more remarkable since Colombia also has had to contend with a costly internal
conflict that disrupts economic processes and distorts resource allocation.
However, the economic situation worsened in the first half of 2002. Peace
negotiations with the guerillas broke down in February, after which violence
escalated. Economic activity has remained sluggish, and the fiscal consolidation has
gone off track. Exacerbated by increased contagion from other countries in the
region, concerns about fiscal solvency led to increased pressure on the peso from
mid-year and a loss of external market access.
After taking office in August 2002, a new administration took determined action to
quicken a resolution of the internal conflict, reverse the fiscal deterioration, and
safeguard macroeconomic stability, which had come under threat. At the same time,
a two-year economic program has been designed, under which the govemment aims
to achieve fiscal consolidation and effect critical structural reforms, so as to lay the
basis for strong and sustained growth and a better distribution of income and social
services.
I Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral
discussions with members, usually every year. A staff team visits the country,
collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's
economic developments and policies. On retumn to headquarters, the staff prepares
a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the
conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board,
summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the
country's authorities. This PIN summarizes the views of the Executive Board as
expressed during the January 15, 2003 Executive Board discussion based on the
staff report.
64



Annex If
Executive Board Assessment
Directors commended the new government's swift and comprehensive action to face
a difficult domestic and external situation. A deterioration in the domestic security
situation last year, together with the turbulence in international financial markets and
a weakening of the public finances, had exerted pressure on the peso and had
resulted in a temporary loss of market access. Directors strongly welcomed the new
government's rapid and determined actions to reverse the fiscal slippages and
safeguard macroeconomic stability, advance institutional and economic reforms, and
accelerate resolution of the internal conflict. In particular, Directors were encouraged
by the measures already taken, and the strong domestic ownership in support of
further reforms, that will allow Colombia to lastingly improve its debt dynamics and
prospects for growth and employment. They saw Colombia's recent return to the
capital markets as a recognition of the improved economic policies and the reform
momentum created by the government.
Directors supported the authorities' plan to reduce the fiscal deficit sharply in 2003-
04 and welcomed their commitment to take the measures needed to ensure public
debt sustainability. In particular, they welcomed the recent passage of tax reform
that will help underpin the lower deficit, as well as the effort to mobilize broad public
support for spending measures. While the program provides for fiscal consolidation
to continue over the medium term, it will, nevertheless, remain important that the
authorities stand ready to take additional measures, as needed, to address risks that
could affect the public finances, including those from security-related spending.
Directors welcomed the govemment's commitment and preparedness to take action
in this regard. Looking ahead, they saw a need for further efforts to strengthen the
tax base. This would include a reduction in the dispersion of VAT-rates, while, over
the medium-term, efforts should aim at alleviating the need to resort to ad-hoc
measures, such as the financial transaction tax.
Directors supported the authorities' decision to finance the fiscal program for 2003
entirely from the domestic market and from increased borrowing from multilateral
lenders. They underscored the importance of advancing the structural reforms that
will help secure this multilateral financing. Directors also noted the efforts underway
to reduce the vulnerability of Colombia's debt structure. Going forward, it will remain
important to continue to implement policies aimed at reducing the vulnerability of the
public debt to shocks, which will require, in addition to fiscal consolidation, the
pursuit of sound policies that help avoid volatility of exchange and interest rates. A
few Directors encouraged the authorities to introduce collective ction clauses in
sovereign bond contracts.
Directors were encouraged by the authorities' commitment to wide-ranging structural
reforms, which will be key to underpin the fiscal consolidation effort over the medium
term. They welcomed the recent approval in congress of the reform of the general
pension system, and looked forward to the next step, which will include reform of the
special pension regimes. They also highlighted the importance of reforms to put the
health system on a sound financial footing. Directors supported the. high priority
assigned by the new administration to modemizing and streamlining the state and
65



Annex II
introducing greater flexibility in public spending. They looked forward to sustained
implementation of reform plans in these areas, building on the ongoing initiatives to
close existing vacancies and reduce staffing through attrition, and the impending
adoption of a Fiscal Responsibility and Transparency Law.
Tuming to monetary policy, Directors commended the central bank for the high
credibility that it has established after having presided over a period of significant
disinflation. They noted that the continued skilful management of the inflation
targeting framework in the period ahead will need to balance carefully the risk that
the recent peso depreciation may fuel higher inflation against the still large unused
capacity in the economy. In this regard, Directors recommended that the authorities
should be ready to act promptly to signs that inflationary expectations could become
embedded. Some Directors expressed concern that the central bank's policy rate is
negative in real terms.
Directors welcomed the significant progress achieved in strengthening the banking
system, including the recent legislation to further strengthen the safeguards, and the
authorities' commitment to refrain from introducing new subsidy programs for
distressed borrowers. They recommended continued vigilance in the period ahead,
especially with respect to the mortgage institutions, and encouraged the authorities
to strengthen the regulation of securities firms and brokerages. Directors
commended the authorities for their exemplary and comprehensive elforts to combat
money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and encouraged continued efforts
against terrorist assets.
Directors emphasized that increased labor market flexibility will be key to address
Colombia's high unemployment and support the government's social equity
objectives. While welcoming the recent reform of the labor code, they encouraged
the authorities to continue to work toward addressing remaining problems, in
particular the backward indexation of the minimum wage and the high payroll
charges, which tend to exclude workers from the formal sector.
Directors considered that Colombia's floating exchange rate regime was appropriate
and had helped strengthen the country's ability to respond to shocks, and that
Colombia's increasingly diversified exports are competitive at the current exchange
rate. They commended the authorities for progress in liberalizing the trade regime
and encouraged them to phase out remaining import restrictions. A number of
Directors underscored the improved export prospects that Colombia would gain from
faster trade liberalization by its trading partners.
Directors encouraged the authorities to accept the obligations of Article VIII of the
Fund's Articles of Agreement as soon as possible, and eliminate the few remaining
exchange restrictions.
For questions please contact Mr. R. Rennhack, Division Chief, South/Central
American 1, Westem Hemisphere Department, IMF, ext. 37350.
66



Annex IIX
Annex     I: Policy Matrix              -_-_-;_____._:_:-_^._d_._.-
First L'a,.n      VSeod; Lov                               Tr L                        Fourth LA Loan           e  E'
'(Pror Actions)                   (Fy-4)                       (FYOS)           1.          (FY06)             Result at fte end
(FY03)                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of FIAL'
OVERALL FISCAL COMMITMENT
The macroeconomic framework of the republic of Colombia is consistent with the objectives of the program.
Responsible GovernmentAgency: MHCP
1. The Borrower has attained, for  1. The execution of the 2003  1. The execution of the 2003  1. The execution of the 2004  MACRO-FISCAL
the period covered by any three  Budget through the end of the  Budget through the end of the  Budget through the end of the  RESULTS
(3) continuous months among the  most recent quarter will be in  most recent quarter will be in  most recent quarter will be in
twelve (12) months preceding   line with overall deficit limnits  line with overall deficit limits in  line with overall deficit limits  Gradual reducion of
withdrawals from the Loan      in the approved budget.     the approved budget and the   in the approved budget and  overall deficit of the
Account, an overall deficit of the                         overall deficit of the non-   the overall deficit of the non-          an in
Combined Public Sector of no                                financial public sector in the  financial public sector in the  2005.
more than US$1,352,000,000                                 approved budget for 2004 will  approved budget for 2005 will
equivalent to                                               not exceed [2.2] percent of GDP.  not exceed [1.1] percent of
P$3,874,000,000,000'           _GDP
I. REVENUE RIGIDITIES AND TAX REFORM
Tax Reform
Policy Obiectives: Increase tax reveniues, improve tax neutrality and equity, reduce tax expenditures.
Responsible GovernmentAgency: MHCP
2. Borrower has enacted tax    2. Government has issued    2. The reforms to taxes specified  2. Income tax surcharge has  FISCAL RESULTS
reform law (Law 788 of 2002),  the necessary legislation to  for 2004 in Law 788-2002 are  been reduced to 5%8T
including: a) reduction of     regulate the application of  being implemented, including:                            i) the VAT tax base
exemptions and expansion of the  Law 788 of 2002.*          a) the VAT coverage has      3. The reforms to taxes     has expanded to
tax base for the VAT2; b)                                   increased to 51% of GDP6, and  specified for 2005 in Law  cover additional
'As reflected in the Stand-By Agreement with the IMF dated January 15, 2003 (exchange rate of P$2,864.79 - US$1)
2Chapter 3 of Law 788 of 2002
67



Annex III
._______*_                             :- v.;........A mleXllJ:RbllcyMvA -;-A                                           _;_.___._I.__
First Loan-Second Loan                              'hrd L;o'                                 ' '          -NFo   L   K   .  . . d
(-.-orActious)-                    (    4 :-Y05)-                                              (FY0,)       .   -   . -d0
-of FIAL
.(F. -  . -:  . 3 )  ._- -_                                _._ _..:_ _.AA ,_,,;_ _. _ _  __ ,,__ _ ___ _8 ,  A            ___A___.__ _'
reduction of the wage tax                                     b) exemptions to income tax    788-2002 are being           goods and services,
exemption from 30% to 25% with                                have been reduced according to  implemented, including: a)  and ii) the phased
a ceiling in the amount of Col$16                             the phasing out schedule defined  goods and services that were  elimination of
million in monthly wages (rentas                              in Articles 12 and 14 of Law 788  taxed at 7% in the Law 788-  income tax
laboraleW) and reduction of tax                              of 20027                        2002 are being taxed at 10%  exemptions during
exemptions, tax credit and non-                                                              starting in 2005, b) goods   2003-2005 is
taxed income for the personal                                                                and services newly included in  effectively applied
income tax4, and c) the phasing                                                             the base of the VAT will be   according to
out of the corporate income tax                                                              taxed at a rate of at least 2%,  schedule, i.e.,
exemption for capital gains from                                                             c) non-taxed and exempted    reduced to 70% in
sales of stock, mutual funds and                                                             goods and services specified  2003, 50% in 2004,
real estate, and as well as for                                                             in Law will also be taxed at a  20% in 2005 and 0%
profits from corporations                                                                    rate of at least 2%, and d)  in 2006.
previously exempted5                                                                         exemptions to income tax
reduced as scheduled in Law
788-2002.
* Essential to the next phase of the program
3Rentas laborales include, for this project, all forms of compensation originated in a labor relation.
AArts. 12, i4 and 17 of Law 788 of 2002.
5 Including "empresas comunitarias, empresas asociativas de trabajo y fondos ganaderos, y los beneficios derivados de la emisi6n masiva de tftulos" (Arts. 12
and 14 of Law 788 of 2002)
6With a margin of error of +/-2.5%. Certification issued by the Oficina de Estudios Economicos of DIAN, based upon a consistency analysis referred to DANE-
certified information.
7 Taxpayers' guide and format of income tax returns.
8DIAN Forms.
68



Annex III
Annex m;I: Policy Matrix:              -_^_-
.^~.4q<.-First Loan  ;       Second Loan       .           Third Loan                   Fourth loan             KeylEeete
(Prior Actions)                   (FY04)                        (FY05)            I          (FY06)             Results at the end
.-(FY03)            ___________________________________________of FIL
Tax Administration
Poicy Obiective. Increase Tax Revenues, Strengthen Tax Equity; Reduce Tax Expenditure And Opportunities For Corruption.
RESPONSIBLE GOVERVNMENTAGENCY: MHCP (ITROUGH DIAN)
3. The Ministry of Finance,     3. The Ministry of Finance,  3. All taxpayers that receive  4. Collections per customs  FISCAL RESULTS
through DIAN, has enacted new  through DLAN, is publishing  VAT refunds have unified the   inspection increased by at  i) substantial
rules for tax adrninistration   regularly: i) semi-annual   taxpayer current account for   least 30 percent in real terms  increase in reporting
including: a) daily interest    indicators, including the ratio  VAT, income tax and customs in  in 2004 compared to 2002.  of interest income; ii)
payments higher than Col$900 are  of actual and estimated   2004.                          5. Administration cost per  collections from
subject to withholding at the  revenues, ii) annual results of  4. The Import & Export module  peso collected reduced by at  firms previously
source ; b) obligation of financial  surveys of taxpayer's  for integrated domestic tax and  least 10% in real terms in  exempted from the
institutions to report information  satisfaction, and iii) indicators  customs systems is in operation  2004 compared to the  corporate income tax
on taxpayers' accounts that are  of the ratio of admninistration                          collections of 2002.         has increased to 75%
credited with annual interest of at  cost per peso collected,  5. Collections from finms
least Col$5 million'0, and/or have  disaggregated by type of tax  previously exempted from the  6. At least 20 monthly tax  of their potential
totalannul depsitsequalor  ad of axpaer'5        corporate income tax has      audits have been performed  revenue, iii)
hoge tann   dosits eulon  c)   4 Th taNpay    :a           increased to at least 75 percent  jointly by the customs and the  administration cost
hgestabihan Clst of clliontabce  4.Tdevelope   hand imleene  of their estimated corporate  internal taxes units of DIAN  per peso collected
destbtish on Decmbe 31of  2002.betx eeopdad     pemne       income tax potential revenue,                              has been reduced by
debt onDecmber31 f 202. software to cross reference                                                            at least 10%, and iv)
Elaborate a plan and set up a   itod  tion with fmancial    6. 100% of lage contibutors                                 dministration
shdltof thlese  ales20      institutions to ensure that  have unified accounts and are                              efficiency has
percent ofteecollectable       intestreported by them       submtitting electronic income tax                          improved according
debts3 ; d) establish indicators of  match interest reported by  returns by the end of 2003                            to standard indicators
customs clearance time and                                             t4 M  __                      _-P                     . 01 
9 Decree 3257 of December, 2002
'0 DLAN Resolucion 10537, October 29, 2002
' DIAN Resolucion 10539, October 29, 2002
12 "Collectable" tax debt is defined as the "debido cobrar" established in the Plan
"3 "Plan de Produccion" approved by the Comit4 de Direccion of DIAN
69



Annex III
, -           ;        . A  ex X   : P .
St;aA_,JSecon,-Aat, -                                        Third Loafi                  Fourth LoAnn
^.qAX  . :  ,  .      - .   . -      .       ...         -                  ..---                   .     'eut at tE1A   en-
- rior~Avt ' .s                    (FY04)                           0                         (FY0)                    of ,,AL
(FY03)
procedures to select shipments for  taxpayers; b) audited at  7. The Ministry of Finance                                like 1% annual
inspection based on a risk-     least 50% of large taxpayers  (DIAN has renegotiated                                     decrease in the ratio
management system for the       affected by the new taxes; c)  agreements with banks with                                of recurrent
customs offices of BogotA and   estabUlshed and published    regard to submission of                                     expenditures of
Medellfn.14                     indicators of the cost and   infordation in stan d form                                  DIAN to total
time required for            and incentives for prompt                                  revenue collected by
compliance by the taxpayer,  processing of data and turning                              it.
and d) established unified   over funds.
accounts between customs
and domestic taxes for large
taxpayers beginning in
(2003.*                          .
II. EXPENDITURE RIGIDITIES AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
A. Budget Management             .      -
Polkcv obiective: Convert the budget into a more effective tool for sound fiscal policy and service delivery improvement.
ResDonsible Government A0enci: -MHCP and DNP
4. Borrower has submitted to    5. Borrower has issued a     8. An information campaign on  7. The 2006 budget is        FISCAL AND
congress and congress has       CONPES document approving   the budget has been launched    prepared within a medium     INSTITUTIONAL
approved, in first round,       the Budget reform strategy17.  and provides information for  term perspective including the  RESULTS
constitutional reform that gives                             different target audiences such  new accounting and budget  Budget includes
power to the borrower's         6. Borrower has developed    as ministries, auditing agencies,  classification model and  targets and
Executive Branch to control and  and published a medium term  and civil society.            integration of current and    tets an
--on#, th. h ...  t -4nth,n fical  ficral frnmpwnrlr (MrTFP\                            .p.rformance_ __                     _
14 Official Memorandum (Oficio) from Direccion de Comercio Exterior of DIAN
15 DIAN Resolution
70



Annex III
.___.__-__-__A__._                 Annex       : Policy:Matrix         -   ..        -;-
First Loan                   Second Loan                   Third Loan                   Fourth Loan          .  Key Expectied
(Prior Actions)                   (EY04)                        (FY05)                       (FY06)             ,Resuhs at the/end
of FIAL.
(FY 03)                                                                                                     _ _  _ _ __  _ _ _
manage the budget within fiscal  fiscal framework (MTFF)     9. Government ha i            capital expenditures.       indicators for at least
targets.16                      consistent with the Plan    regulations that require: a) a  8. Government has extended  six sector ministries
Financiero and the           model of budget classification  performance management    in accordance with a
requirements of the Fiscal   that meets international      pilots to at least six rministries  medium term budget
Responsibility Law.          standards, b) new budget      clarifying objectives, setting  plan like a medium
Superior Council of  reporting standards, and c)  targets and devising simple  term expenditure
7. The Supenor Council of    coordination to ensure        performance indicators.     framework.
Fiscal Policy (CONFIS) has   consistency of current and
issued a resolution that     capital expenditures
regulates the criteria for the
approval of budget forwards  10. Government has initiated
commitments (vigencias       performance management pilots
futuras) according to the    in two mninistries by clarifying
Annual Financial Plan.       objectives, setting targets and
devising simple performance
8. Borrower has established a  indicators.
high level Special
Commission to
comprehensively review
expenditure entitlements and
earmarked revenues and
recommend changes.
9. Borrower has approved a
Constitutional reform that
restores budget powers to
the borrower's Executive
Branch, or Government has
16 Diario Oficial, Decree 099, January 20, 2003, Article 42
7 CONPES document
71



Annex III
M   --  :  -: ...      -        AnnexY     I: PolicY-Matrix -',_                               _    _
First Loan    Second Loan                  ~~~~~~~~~Third loan          F ourth Loan         -~   ey E%pce
(Prior Actions)                   (FY04)                       (FY05)                       (FY0.)             Res.,ta t th end
- v-      (FY0)          .(             oYF4AL
submitted to Congress
amendments to the organic
budget law permitting
greater flexibility in annual
spending within present
constitutional frameworL*
Development of Incentives for Efficiency.Gains
PoUic Objective: Ensure that spending for service delivery is realized with greater efficiency, effectiveness and within budget constraints. A step toward
elimination of transfer rigidity and management forresults.
Responsible Government Agencies: Presidency, MHCP, Ministry of Education
5. Royalty transfer: borrower has  10. Borrower has submitted  I11. Government is fully                               INSTTTIMONAL
enacted law to enable          to popular vote the provision  applying Law 715 of 2002 on                            RESULTS
constitutional referendum for  of the Referendum that     I capitation transfer and is                                .
transfer of royalties for      reallocates royalty transfers  auditing and applying sanctions                        I) Government has
educational services.'8        for educational services.*  to sub national governments that                          effectively
- commit fraud with respect to                             transformed supply-
11. Government has          number of students enrolled                               based transfer for
established eligibility                                                               education into a
requirements for sub-national                                                         demand-based
governments to access                                                                 capitalization transfer
additional resources for                                                              and,
education at sub-national                                                             ii)subnational
levels. Eligibility                                                                   governments have
repnUfferntsernrheludpe nmng                         fu!                     !   y assu a
others, restructuring of sub-                                                         responsibility for
national Secretary of                                                                 delivering education
Education, enhanced capacity                                                          services as reflected
is Ley 796 of January 21, 2003, Diario Oficial
72



Annex 111
'Annex m: Policy Matirix
First Loan        ; .        Second Loan                  Third Loan                   Fourth Loain            Key Expectd;
_;-,(PriorActions)       -(FY04)                                  (FYOS)                       (FY06)             Results.atthee
(FY03)  ~~~~~~(Y0)Of F
for human resources                                                                   in indicators such as:
management at and co-                                                                 a) capacity to
financing of education                                                                reallocate teachers, b)
expenditures at competent                                                             capacity to enforce
sub-national level.                                                                   teachers' attendance
and other teacher
performance
indicators, c) co-
financing
commitments, and d)
publication of local
or regional
improvement goals in
standardized national
tests.
Defending the State against the Extraordinary Growth of Legal Claims
Policy Obiective: Improve the capacity of the state to reduce and respond to legal claims and diminish their fiscal cost.
Responsible Government Agency: Ministry of Justice through Direccion General de Defensa Judicial
6. Borrower has promulgated Law  12. Borrower has issued a  12. Government has established  9. Government is         INSTITUTIONAL
790 of 2002'9 that grants authority  CONPES document        a public monitoring, information  implementing the new policy  RESULTS
to central government for      establishing the new policy  and reporting system that    for legal defense of the state  Present value of
strengthening the Direccion de  for legal defense of the state,  includes performance and result  and is publishing semi-annual  judicial contingency
Defensa Judicial del Ministerio  including legal reform if  indicators and expected fiscal  reports on performance and  debt has been
del Interior y de Jusdcia with the  necessary. *            impact for the legal defense of  results indicators, including  reduced with respect
purpose of: i) limniting the state's                       the state.                    expected fiscal impact, of the  to the value of 2003.
civil liability through improved                                                         legal protection policy
19 Article 15 of Law 790 of 2002.
73



Annex III
'-           ,-';,-        Annex -ml. PolicyMatrix                          ____-_________
First ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   U Lon- eodLanTidLa  ,   orhLa                  'Key 'E,pected 
-'(Prior A&,ons)    .               (FY4>                         (FY05) '                                              l   t th e    .
.            ,,( ,      ,,03)             -                            1< ,,..                                             of FIAL.
policy formulation and
coordination, ii) seeking
indemnification from borrower's
civil servants who act with gross
negligence and bad faith, iii)
professionalizing judicial defense
of the state.
Strengthening Public Sector Procurement
Polkv Obiective: Ensure that government purchases are'transparent and efficient.
Responsible Government Agencyi -DNP
7. Government has issued Decree  13. Borrower issued CONPES  13. Borrower has began the     10. Borrower has issued the  INSTITUTONAL
2170 dated September 30, 2002   document that: a) dictates the  iopratior. of the govern.ent  I -egulaatory decrees f.or thc  RESULTS
that strengthens transparency and  principles that apply to  agency responsible for         implementaion of the new     i) The country's legal
objectivity in pubfic sector    goverment procurement, b)    monitoring, evaluating, and    procurement legal framework.  framework for
procurement.                    recommends the creation of a  establishing common guidelines                             procurement has
new agency or the assignment  in public sector procurement                              been reformed
8. Bill of Law 018/2002         to an existing agency of public  matters.                                                been       guided
modifying current public sector  sector procurement                                                                      following guidelines
procurement legal framework in  responsibilities, and c) defines                                                         agreed between the
consideration by borrower's     a strategy for developing and                                                            Government and the
Congress.                       implementing e-procurement.                                                              Bank, including
guidelines such as: a)
I'. .       LA     ro                                                                   measures to enhance
A'  Orower bas proposedtanprncun
to Congress modifications to                                                            transparency and
the legal bill amending Law                                                             objectivity, and b)
80 that incorporate the                                                                 assignment of
recommendations of                                                                      monitoring and
CONPES, emphasizing: a)                                                                 evaluation
common principles for                                                                   responsibility in
74



Annex lll
Annex m: PolicyMatr-ix
First Loan                    Second Loan                   Third Loan                   Fourth Loan     ;Key Expected
(Prior Actions)(FY04)                                           (FY05)                        (FY06)              Results at the end
(FY03)                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of FLAL
-:(FY03)               ..               -.               
public sector procurement;                                                              procurement policy
b) introduction of economic                                                             to a competent
considerations into the                                                                 agency; ii) advances
procurement process; and c)                                                             in coverage of e-
institutional framework for                                                             procurement.
public sector procurement.* 
Asset Management
Policy Obiective: Increase the value of assets owned by the state, generate additional revenue by liquidating those that are not directly linked to service delivery,
reduce replacement and restoration costs, and eliminate opportunities for corruption
Responsible Government Agency: DNP
9. Government has created a      15. Borrower has issued     14. Government has submitted   11. Asset registration,      INSTlTUTIONAL
Conmmission for Asset           CONPES document that         to congress law reform proposal  including updated valuation,  RESULTS
Management charged with         defines basic principles and  to authorize and facilitate new  has been completed for 100%  i) The state has
preparation of draft government  establishes strategic plan for  asset management.          of the assets listed by the  institutionalised
policy, defined the scope of work  Asset Management.         15. Titling has been regularized  Contadurfa Nacional       mohanisms to
and an operational plan to define                            for at least 100 real estate assets  12. Asset management   monitor, evaluate,
accounting systems and          16. Short term Asset         16. Short term Asset           program has produced         of public assets, and
invntoi cagencies.  Management program has  Management program has        cumulative revenues for at  ii) the state has
produced revenues or         produced cumulative revenues  least 175,000 million        received accumulated
savings equivalent to at least  or savings for at least 51,000  Colombian pesos of 2002.  revenues for asset
27,000 million Colombian     million Colombian pesos of     13. Inventory of government  management
pesos of 2002.**             2002.                         assets is completed and      equivalent to at least
published for all ministries  US$70 million.
20 DNP memorandum conforming Commission
75



Annex III
First Ia               I.    S                             Third Loan                                               -Y.Fort Loan  .  E ecd
(Prior Actions)                    (FY04)V                                                    (                   R    t a th   end --Y06)
(FY03) -                                                                                                          o --AL
Management Contracts for Government Agencies
Poliy Object ive: Enhance the efficiency and financial self-sufficiency of government agencies.
Responsible GovernmentAgencies: DNP, Ministry of Labor and Social Security                        -
10. Government has selected two  17. Central government has  17. Government has published,  14. Government has adjusted  Participating
government agencies21 for pilot  signed management pilot     monitored and adjusted        and extended management      agencies are
management contracts 2003-2006  contracts with two           performance and results       contracts to at least 6      performing better and
government agencies. *       indicators for two government  government agencies.        reaching results
agencies,                                                   according to
indicators such as
reduced dependency
on fiscal transfers,
higher coverage, and
increased customer
satisfaction.
Management of the Public Sector Reform Process
Policv Obiective: Promote policy and technical coordination for the successful application of reforms within a framework of strengthened governance,
accountability and policy;sustainability.  -
Responsible Government Agency: DNP.          -
11. Borrower has: i) published its  18. Borrower has issued  18. Base line and progress    15. Base line and progress   INSTITUTIONAL
strategy of state reformb , ii)  CONPES document for         indicators for monitoring     indicators for monitoring    RESULTS
21 Organismos administrativos. The two selected agencies are ICBF and SENA.
** Judgment will be exercised to verify satisfaction of this requirement.
22 Direcnva Presidencial Nos. 10, 12, and 13 of 2002.
76



Annex III
Annex I: Policy Matrix
. First Loan                -'Second Loan                 -Third.Loan                   Fourth Loan             Key Expected
(Prior Actions)                   (FY04)                        (FYOS)                       (FY06)             Results at the end
-  . (FY03)~ -   ~  4   -     .      .        ..........  ..  .  A  -   .   . .-of F.AL
established a high level        government policy on state  progress and final goals of the  progress and final goals of the  i) Reform has been
commission for state reform23 and  reform                   reform are applied to the reforms  reform are applied to the  widely consulted
a task team for technical       19. Borrower bas developed a  achieved during 2003 and are  reforms achieved during 2004  within public and
coordination; iii) formed task  system for monitoring and   disseminated countrywide.      and are disseminated        private sectors, and
teams in each participating     evaluation of state reform and                             countrywide.                ii) reform process is
agency with coordination        has atnounced monitoring                                                               proceeding on
mechanism with DNP24, and iv)   indicators for public sector                                                           schedule.
developed a concept for public  reform progress in the web
marketing of public sector      page of the DNP and other
reform.'                        means.
III. FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
Fiscal Responsibility.
PoiUcy Obiectives: Reduce fiscal imbalances.
Responsible Government Agency: MHCP
12. The borrower has subnmtted to  20. Borrower has approved  19. Borrower has: a) disclosed  16. Borrower has: a) disclosed  FISCAL RESULTS
congress draft law for fiscal   a rfl responsibility law,   fiscal targets for 2004 in    fiscal targets for 2005 in   i) Government has
responsibility. 26              that contains, at a minimum,  accordance with the new law of  accordance with the new law  enacted measures for
rules for: a) setting fiscal  fiscal responsibility, and b)  of fiscal responsibility, and b)  signaling and
targets linked to debt       submitted reports to congress of  submitted reports to congress  disclosing fiscal
sustsinability and primary  fiscal results of 2003.        of fiscal results of 2004.  targets, and ii)
balance for the NFPS, b)                                                               Central Government
annual reports of fiscal    I_                                                           rniiPr in oni
23 Minutes of some of the meetings of the high level commission for renovation of the state.
24 PNUD Document; DNP Circular 530 and 582, 2002; letters from the ministries appointing responsible persons for coordination with DNP
25 DNP Document
26 Gaceta of Congress with approval in second debate.
77



Annex III
____-____              .<_x_   -       Annes ml:. P.olcy.Mati                   -           .              . . x. e  - C
Fir."._'''st Loan  ~         ASecond Loan                                        Fourth "oa      'e;Ep. .
(Por Aoction)                                     .FY Y         - os                                    Rs     at
of FIAL_
v ;(FY03) a v   ;   a|- -
results to congress, including                                                   is collecting and
floating debt, c) publication                                                    publishing reliable
of the riancial plan that will                                                  fiscal sustainability
include, among others,                                                           data for the 50 largest
information on floating and                                                      subnational
contingency debt, and d) tde                                                     governments
obligation to include the                                                        according to
fiscal impact and source of                                                      indicators defined in
funancing within any law                                                        the proposed bill for
that creates new tax                                                             a fiscal responsibility
expenditures.**                                                                 law and Law 617 of
2000.
Conditions in bold are triggers for moving to the second operation. The triggers for the third and fourth operations will be drawn from
the government's program (see Section II of this report) and, in particular, the set of expected key reform measures set out in this Policy
Matrix.
78



0   0                     V C*  D _~ _ M _n Co 0 r4  CD o   d4  0  n -   aD   .0   A a N   ;
< fl f . g 8  0 N  R R  8 8 6 ^  S n 0 n n n s R S4  N  a n ~ o  CO 8b+Xn - 
O s t ffi X X ;E  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  K:  S _1 sro l o 0f  m  P;  o !aqn0anm9  2  A.
co                                                                        r ,S,l  il  1t;nS1tBil  tg 



i i j Z E E 3g | * D l}  ;  ffi g g ffi i 3 i 3 | ~~~Z Z  i- |, |n X  z1
s s
8~~~~~~L                tr 9:       CD iooco_ 1  - O  :81fio5  S  18s  su11k 896  oim g 
f~~~~~~5 P
s~~~~~~~~C n & ti              co   0 c X o   R) t                 .a>f
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                             _3tDL
O~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                     <



Appendix I
APPENDIX I
Institutions for Fiscal Responsibility
1.    Experience in a variety of countries, including those with explicit fiscal
responsibility laws, shows that good maintenance of fiscal sustainability with democratic
governments at more than one level requires a net work of institutional checks and
balances; no one law or agency can bring about the necessary discipline. Whatever the
benefits a Fiscal Responsibility Law, they come from its complementary relationship
with other laws and institutions; it cannot be evaluated in isolation.
2.    In Colombia, the Constitution, budgeting and treasury rules, and the Central Bank
have been the main formal instruments of national-level control. Until recently, the
Constitution and legal rules for budgeting and treasury have done little to restrain central
government deficits and debt, and in some ways they encouraged it, such as by the
vigencias futuras that make commitment for future expenditure and by the allowance for
arrears that made ad hoc promises for future payment of present expenditures. The two
pillars of fiscal prudence, for which Colombia earned a good reputation until the mid-
1990s were, first, the power sharing (really alternation in power) between the two
traditional parties that concurred on the virtue of fiscal stability and, second, the prestige
and relative autonomy of the Central Bank. The former acted as an ex ante limit, while
the autonomy of the Central Bank mainly imposed an ex post sanction through tighter
money if deficits became excessive. Both of these pillars relied to a large extent on
discretion of the policymakers, although some legal limits on Central Bank credit to the
government were non-discretionary. In the 1990s, the new Constitution broadened
political participation, increased spending impulses, and weakened the tax base of the
national government (automatically sharing it with subnational governments), all of
which weakened the fiscal prudence of the government.      The Acto Legislativo
(constitutional amendment) of 2001 sought to put ex ante limits on some of the spending
impulse coming from transfer to subnational governments. There has not been time to
assess the effects of this change.'
3.     Now the Colombian government has proposed a Fiscal Responsibility Law to
reinforce the other institutions for fiscal restraint and to provide a framework for the
reforms to the budget-management process that are planned for the next two years.
Experience elsewhere, most dramatically in Argentina, shows that the rules for
subnational fiscal discipline become irrelevant and even absurd if fiscal discipline breaks
down at the national level. To this end, the FRL will specify process for setting budget
targets and linking them to target ranges for debts and deficits. Regulations for the law
will build on the current practice of publishing quarterly fiscal results, defining deficits
on the basis of cash revenue and accrual of spending obligations, and defining debt to
include floating debt. The FRL will set a target to eliminate reservas presupuestales in
I This point is closely linked with the contractualization of education results. As the main source of ever
increasing transfers to subnational governments, the growth of the education payroll needs to be restricted
through a combination of constitutional ceilings on transfers and effectively submitting salary to teacher
performance and school results.
81



Appendix I
two years. The other part of floating debt, cuentas por pagar, will be counted as regular
debt and will thus be controlled by the fiscal/financial plan. To help with fiscal discipline
at all levels, the FRL will complement the Acto Legislativo 2001 and will prohibit the
national government from lending to an SNG or guaranteeing its debt if it is in violation
of Ley 617 of 2000 or Ley 357of 1997 (the traffic-light law) or is in arrears on any debt
service to the national government, Indeed, a subnational government with those fiscal
violations may not legally borrow from anyone. To discourage electoral cycles in fiscal
policy, the FRL will also prohibit any government from approving future spending
(vigencias futuras) or increasing personnel spending, by hiring or wage increases, after
January 1 of an election year. For the subnational governments there are additional
restraints on deficits: eliminating the intermediate category in Ley 357 (thus putting tight
fiscal restraints immediately on SNGs that show signs of problems), and requiring that
departments and large municipalities get satisfactory credit ratings from international
rating agencies before they borrow. While some of these legal measures need further
refinement, such as through their regulations, they will represent important advances as
long as they are enforced well.
4.    The strategy for fiscal control in the FRL differs between the national and
subnational levels, because of the different constitutional constraints they face on fiscal
policy. The Constitution (and debt obligations) specifies almost all outlays for the
national government, to which taxes and deficits adjust. Therefore, for the national
govemment, the FRL focuses on limiting the deficits so that the adjustment will have to
concentrate on the tax side and thus eventually motivate political restraint on spending.
For the subnational govemments, on the other hand, the Constitution specifies most of
their revenue, via transfers, and gives them little leeway to raise more own revenue, so
the FRL strengthens the restraints on subnational deficits to complement the direct
restraints on subnational spending, mostly in Ley 617.
5.    Experiences with fiscal control efforts elsewhere in Latin America show the
importance and promise of Colombia's efforts. Brazil also passed a FRI, in 2000 which,
as in Colombia, adds to the mix of laws and policies that aim to increase fiscal control at
national and subnational level. It seems to be having a favorable effect, although many
more years of experience will be need to reach a firm conclusion. The Brazilian FRL sets
minimum standards for federal, state, and municipal budgeting, personnel management,
and debt management. The annual budgets of the federal and state governments have to
be consistent with their multiyear budget plans and with the federal fiscal and monetary
program. The FRL systematizes and reinforces the restrictions on personnel spending,
deficits and debt that were in the debt-rescheduling agreements with states and in other
earlier measures. The law sets limits to spending and borrowing decisions and reiterates
the requirement in other legislation that the federal government deduct from tax-sharing
participation transfers any money owed by an SNG to the federal government and
agencies. Debt and labor contracts in violation of the FRL are not legally valid, which
would impose a penalty on any lender to an ineligible government, especially at the
subnational level. The Brazilian FRL came after a lot of public discussion and consensus
building in its favor, which suggests that Colombia should have a similar public-
information campaign to convince people of the benefits of the new law. Although
Mexico does not have a fiscal responsibility law per se, it does have a regime for
82



Appendix I
promoting fiscal restraint that has proven effective, especially since the reforms for SNGs
in 1999-2000. One feature of the Mexican system, using market-based credit ratings to
determine the eligibility of SNGs to borrow, was specifically adopted in Colombia.
Mexico also issued regulations in June 2002 that institutionalized improved federal
budgeting and deficit control procedures, some that had been in practice since 2001 and
some that are being implemented with the 2003 budget cycle. In Both Brazil and
Mexico, the latest measures to institutionalize fiscal responsibility were preceded by
several years of actual fiscal policy changes to bring down deficits. That Colombia does
not have such a running start on fiscal reform means that the government will need to
make extra efforts to improve actual balances, and not to rely solely on the FRL as an
auto-pilot that would now guide them to a safe landing.
83



Appendix 11
APPENDIX II
Tax Policy Reform in Colombia: Challenges and Achievements
1. Tax policy in Colombia has changed a number of times in recent years,
occasionally for the better, such as in the reforms of 2002. To tnderstand those
reforms in their context, this appendix looks at the tax policy prior to December
2002 and evaluates the new law relative to the prior situation.
2. Colombia has a set of taxes at the national level that are typical in middle and
upper income countries-value added, corporate and personal income, import
duties (not discussed here nor touched in the 2002 reform), and excises.
Municipal taxation is mostly from the property tax and fees. Department taxation
is the weakest, focusing on alcohol and lotteries.
3. Three general principles should guide the choice of reforms, in addition to the
objective of raising revenue. First, social concerns about the equity of the income
distribution in Colombia should be addressed primarily through expenditure
policy, and secondarily through appropriate adjustments in the progressivity of
the individual income tax, with all other aspects of tax policy focused on raising
revenue, improving' economic efficiency and neutrality, and reducing
administrative complexity. Second, the tax system should be as neutral as
possible with respect to both production and consumption decisions, in order to
leave the best incentives for efficient growth and consumption. This means
broadening the base rather than raising rates, which is especially important now
due to the weakness of growth and investment in Colombia. Third, reforms
should simplify tax compliance, administration, and enforcement of the tax
system, in order to free up scarce administrative and managerial skills for
productive uses, rather than coping with an unduly complex tax system.
Value Added Tax
4. Diagnosis and Challenges. Colombia was one of the first Latin American
countries to adopt a consumption-based value added tax (VAT) (in 1965), a tax
now used in 120 countries. Under an ideal consumption-based, destination-based
VAT, all domestically consumed consumer goods and services (including
imports) should be subject to a uniform tax rate, with at most a very few
exemptions or zero-rated goods. VAT paid on all capital goods should be fully
credited under the invoice-credit system, so that tax pyramiding (multiple layers
of tax attributable to taxation of inputs and final outputs) is avoided; taxation of
business inputs, including capital goods, is highly undesirable because it creates
inefficient incentives for under-using capital goods and for verticad integration (to
avoid the tax by providing otherwise taxable goods and services in-house) and, to
the extent shifted forward as higher commodity prices, distorts consumer
The goal for Colombia's income tax is neutrality within that context, for income taxes are inherently not
neutral between consumption and investment.
84



Appendix 11
purchasing decisions. Finally, all exports should be zero-rated to ensure that the
tax is assessed on a destination basis.
5. The VAT in Colombia falls far short of this ideal; it has a large number of
exemptions to its base; there is an "implicit" VAT charged on certain imports;
many nonexport goods are zero-rated, some goods are taxed at preferential rates
while others are taxed at luxury rates, and capital goods are not fully credited
against subsequent VAT liability. As a result, the yield on the VAT is low
relative to all personal consumption.2
6. Government Program. The government passed a new tax law in December 2002,
effective in 2003, which includes important reforms to the income tax and the
VAT. Reforms to the VAT will expand the base to cover a number of products
and services that were previously not taxed, but will now be taxed at a lower rate.
Most new items will be taxed at 7 percent starting in 2003 and then a 10 percent
in 2005 and thereafter. Although moving all products to a uniform rate would be
the ideal (perhaps reducing the standard rate somewhat from its current 16%), it is
an important achievement to establish the principle of expanding the base. The
new goods taxed at 7% include work horses and mules, coffee, most grains, sugar,
cocoa, pasta, baked goods other than bread, tobacco, coal, cotton fiber, air pumps,
refrigeration equipment, dairy processing equipment, original art work and
matches. The newly taxed services include security services, insurance and pre-
paid plans for health care, social and health clubs, tourist hotel services, and
financial brokerage commissions. On mobile phone services the tax will be 20%.
On automobiles, the rates that ranged from 20% to 35% will be gradually unified
to 25% by 2005. There are also some goods and services that will be taxed at 2%,
starting with only live meat animals in 2002 and broadening in 2005. The
reforms will also eliminate implicit VAT on imports, which is a source of
complexity and favoritism, and rationalize the treatment of capital goods. The
reform will collect the VAT on all capital goods, with a three-year rebate or credit
for registered firms making further sales (the rebate will be phased in with 50
percent rebated in the year of purchase and 25 percent in each of the next two
years). Although this has some fiscal cost, it will largely eliminate a bias against
investments in capital equipment.
Personal Income Tax
7. Diagnosis and Challenge. The personal income tax in Colombia is a highly
progressive tax that applies solely to higher-income individuals and from a social
equity viewpoint should be viewed as a supplement to the two broad-based taxes
on wages and consumption, the payroll taxes (discussed below) and the VAT.
The tax adds some progressivity to the tax system, because it applies only to the
higher-income individuals (above three times average per capita income) who
2 The ratio of VAT collections to national consumption is less than half of the standard rate of 16 percent,
even though some problematic features of Colombia's VAT, like the implicit VAT, do raise some extra
revenue
85



Appendix H
have the capacity to pay the tax and to cope with the complexity of filing a
personal tax return.  Limiting the personal income tax to higher-income
individuals also facilitates administration by allowing the tax authorities to focus
all of their administrative and enforcement efforts where the revenue yield is
greatest. Administration and enforcement are also facilitated by raising as much
revenue as possible through withholding nearly 90 percent of revenues at source,
and by choosing a tax structure (for example, taxing on an individual basis with
few exemptions or deductions) that is conducive to accurate withholding so that
filing can be optional. The personal income tax exempts dividends and capital
gains from corporate holding, to avoid double taxation of profits.
8. Still the tax has some problems, the most important being that 30 percent of all
wages and salaries are exempt. This undercuts the progressivity of the tax, and of
course reduces revenue. Other less urgent issues are that there are differing
definitions of taxable (and deductible) salaries in the personal and corporate
income tax and the payroll taxes (including social security) have and that the
minimum tax rate and minimum income subject to tax is relatively high (steps are
20, 29, and 35 percent, starting at about three times per capita income).
9. Government Program. The 2002 reforms to the personal income tax the
government addressed the 30 percent exemption of wages, by reducing the
exemption to 25% and limiting it to a ceiling of 4 million pesos per month of
income, equivalent to US$1,200 monthly. A further improvement, for future
years, would substitute a smaller, uniform exemption, which would be more
consistent with international practice and make it easier to achieve equity goals,
especially given the proposed expansion of the VAT base. It would also facilitate
administration, as a larger 'number of taxpayers could simply be exempt from tax
and not required to file a return. The 2002 reform also addressed the problem of
tax exempt compensation to workers, via a change in the corporate tax rules,
saying that firms may no longer claim any deduction for any labor cost that is not
reported in the tax base for withholding taxes from the employees.  This
effectively puts a tight limit (and should virtually eliminate) tax exempt
compensation to workers.
Corporate Income Tax
10. Diagnosis and Challenges. The business income tax in Colombia applies to all
forms of businesses, including corporations, limited liability companies, and
partnerships, and does not double tax the passage of profits in dividends to
individuals. It thus avoids the distortions of business organizational form that
plague tax systems in other countries.  Nevertheless, there are numerous
distortions in the business tax, particularly sectoral preferences and some
excessive depreciation rates.
11. The Colombian business tax is characterized by numerous sectoral preferences.
These distort the allocation of resources, increase the complexity of the tax
system, and create opportunities for tax avoidance. Accordingly, they should be
86



Appendix II
eliminated from the tax system.  Examples of preferences that should be
eliminated include the tax exemption for publishing firms, liquor producers,
livestock producers, firms investing in "privileged" locations such as the Paez
River region or regions of other natural disasters or tax-free zones, certain types
of cooperatives, public service enterprises (water, sewerage, electricity,
telephones, and gas), and investment funds organized by financial institutions.3
To preserve the credibility of tax policy in the eye of investors, there probably
should be a transition regime.
12. The corporate tax also includes a complex subsidy for employment generation,
designed to encourage employment and raise the net wages of low-income
workers. The program increases administrative difficulties and has a high
revenue cost per job, as is typical, because such programs create incentives for
employee turnover as firms attempt to qualify for the credit. Finally, given the
large supply elasticity of unskilled labor from the informal sector, any effect of a
jobs credit may be simply to shift employment between sectors-from the
uncovered to the privileged covered sector-without raising net wages in the long
run.
13. The rate of the corporate tax is high by international standards, especially
considering the need to attract foreign investment. Also, the government is
putting a temporary surcharge of 10 percent on the CIT, for one year.
14. Government Program. Reforms to the corporate income tax, passed in December
2002, will phase out exemptions for capital gains from sales of stock, mutual
funds and real estate and for profits from a variety of previously privileged
corporate forms that often served as tax shelters, including community
enterprises, small and hydro-electric power generating enterprises, contracts and
mortgages enforce in Oct 1974, cattle investment funds, empresas asociativas de
trabajo, and bonds from the agrarian and urban reforms of 1988 and 1989. The
phase-out would reduce the exemptions to 70% in 2003, 50% in 2004, 20% in
2005, and 0% in 2006. Access to the special tax regime (at a 20% rate rather than
the standard 35%) was tightened, now to include cooperatives providing
education and health services only if they are formally approved by the Ministry
of Education or Health, respectively. These personal and corporate income tax
reforms will help raise more revenue in the most economically efficient way
possible, by broadening the base and removing policies that distorted incentives
for choices in production and investment. The government also refrained from
imposing a surcharge of ten percent on corporate taxes, which was widely
discussed but which would have hurt the attractiveness of Colombia as a
destination for international investment and would have increased the distortion of
incentives in the tax regime, especially if the surcharge had been used as a
substitute for eliminating exemptions.
3 In addition, nonprofit organizations should be subject to the business income tax on any activities not
directly related to the purpose for which they are granted nonprofit status.
87



Appendix II
Other National Taxes and Contributions
15. Payroll. The wage and payroll deductions for parafiscales, when combined with
other payroll taxes related to health and pension plans and separation payments,
impose a tax wedge of roughly 50 percent between labor earnings and the cost to
employers, which is high in an absolute sense and in comparison to other
countries. The three main programs to which they go have several problems,
including their (in)effectiveness and the fact that they start taxing the first peso
earned. All three of the programs funded by the parafiscales are intended to be
redistributive in nature, so it is anomalous to finance them with payroll taxes that
most heavily impact the poor, which in effect mostly just redistributes income
within the lower-income classes. The programs should be evaluated carefully to
see whether they are successfully meeting their goals and, if not, should be
eliminated or significantly reduced in size.
16. Financial Transactions. In 1999, under pressure to raise more revenue, the
government introduced a tax of 0.3 percent on each bank-account debit. Although
it has served as a temporary source of revenue- and does tax some parts of the
illicit economy that would otherwise escape taxation, the tax has some serious
disadvantages: It discourages financial intermediation and financial transactions
and this limits the growth of the financial sector and indirectly the growth of the
economy. It gives rise to tax pyramiding for goods that require multiple
transactions subject to tax during the process of production, distribution and final
sales, and thus distorts production and consumption decisions. It encourages
inefficient vertical integration designed solely to avoid the tax. It can easily be
avoided by shifting transactions offshore or engaging in financial transactions
outside the banking system (e.g., cash, non-bank financial instruments, and
multiple endorsements on checks) and is thus a difficult tax to enforce properly.
Although the government could not afford the fiscal cost of eliminating the tax,
the tax law of December 2002 does close some loopholes previously available for
transactions in the real economy and allows exemptions for some inter-bank
financial transactions that do not represent real transactions in good and services,
which is the intended base of the tax.
Subnational Taxes
17. Diagnosis and Challenge. While the municipalities have the property tax
(predial) and a turnover tax on industry and commerce, the departments have
little tax power at their disposal, mainly excises and vehicle fees. There are a
number of problems with the taxes at both levels. In most localities, the taxes are
badly distorted by both national law and local administration. For example,
national law specifies many exemptions to the turnover tax and the predial,
favoring special interests. Also, municipalities with the turnover tax are in
conflict over where firms should pay it when production and sales are in different
88



Appendix 11
places. Liquor and cigarette taxes for the departments are specified in a complex
way, making them hard to enforce and easy to evade.
18. Government Program.   The tax reform  will include a rationalization of
departmental and district taxes on alcoholic drinks. As prepared by the previous
administration and supported by the 2001 SFAL project, this rationalization will
ensure convergence of tax rates to avoid distortions and smuggling. The tax
reform will also include elimination of the income tax credit for municipal taxes
other than the turnover tax. Besides, the tax reform will increase by 5 percentage
points the gasoline tax surcharge which is transferred to subnational governments.
19. Although it will not act on this immediately, the government intends to strengthen
the subnational tax system, particularly to rationalize the tax system of territorial
entities (Estatuto de Ingresos Territoriales) and help them strengthen
enforcement. The contemplated revisions include measures to regulate (a) the
basic principles and rules for all departmental, district, and municipal revenues,
including taxes, fees, and special contributions; (b) the distribution of tax
revenues by level of government; (c) the tax base and tax rates (or delegation to
subnational entities) for liquor, beer, and tobacco excises, vehicle taxation,
property tax, and industry and commerce tax, valorization contribution, and
participation in surplus value of real estate; (d) penalties for noncompliance by
taxpayers or beneficiaries; and (e) tax procedures. In addition to benefiting
subnational governments, the proposed reforms would help the central
government because increases in subnational revenues would decrease pressure
for more transfers and bailouts.
89



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31251
780         -7.
e a rib b ea*n
~~~ ~~~ ~COLOMBIA
sea X        j  ..     '   ,                    '
:ATW*
-80 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ )"           /J/ O D B A   A T NgR  eon  tcbsceololnenmuni6-Sn
R~~~~~~~atg~        Vu erpo / iXv w\ +cctj  op;ldmt;lr,rn 
~'  cEs      iiror.cob  'R
PANXAMA           Ei                                 R U
PA ClFIC  CHOCOA,                            =     -
O C EAN  ?   J )  DlAC  YCUNDINAR lue1o * CA S AN A RE/
COLOMBIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOII
S  Deote Co a               AMAZ( ONAS   CH  DA
PERU
780; 74                      *        70a<S~D  7 -
SANTANTtER      T6l ..p  prTd ... d by _hf M.p D-En Td A  TD   20d 014
r  gC A U C AS  RHUIPJC  t  ~~~~~~~~~ucr  r% qi,/
(<A~~~~~~~~~~~  U I N02  SrecA  X [ A D  E  ARAUCA    ,
i   nSt,    m        A)  ')~~~~~io  or
OCEAN~~~~~~~                AMZOAS un a          Roo  A A ARE
A S       W/~~   ~    ~~~~~ I c
I~~~~~~~~ ~L Cal   L  I         M E T AGuos 
DEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME 200



