Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7163 - CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 19, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7163 - CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated January 20, 2003, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies for fiscal and institutional reform, covering fiscal sustainability, 
public expenditure management, institutional reform and management of public liabilities 
(the Program), which Program consists of actions that have already been taken as 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the First Phase of the Program), and actions 
and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near future; (ii)  declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 (B) 
on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the First Phase of the Program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the First Phase of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “Central 
Bank” 
means 
Banco de la República, 
the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
(b) 
“Combined Public Sector” means the sum of the following: a) overall 
balances of the non-financial public sector; b) the operating cash result (quasi-fiscal 
Page  4
-
3
-
balance) of the Central Bank; c) the overall balance of FOGAFIN (as hereinafter 
defined); and d) the net fiscal costs borne by the central administration and the rest of the 
non-financial public sector related to financial sector restructuring; 
(c)  
“DDJ” means 
Dirección de Defensa Judicial del Ministerio del Interior y 
de Justicia, 
the Borrower’s Judicial Defense Directorate at the Ministry of Interior and 
Justice; 
(d)  
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(e)  
“DIAN”  means 
Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales, 
the 
Borrower’s Directorate of National Taxes and Customs; 
(f)  
“DNP”  means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department; 
(g) “FOGAFIN” 
means 
Fondo de Garantías de Instituciones 
Financieras,
 
the Borrower’s Guarantee Fund for Financial Institutions; 
(h ) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 and 
ending on December 31;  
(i) “ICBF” 
means 
Insituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
,
the 
Borrower’s Family Welfare Institute; 
 (j) 
“MH” 
means 
Ministerio de
 Hacienda y Crédito Público,
 the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;    
(k) 
“Peso” or “P$” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; and  
(l)  
“SENA”  means 
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
,
the Borrower’s 
Learning National Service. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred 
Page  5
-
4
-
million Dollars ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of two hundred ninety 
seven million Dollars ($297,000,000) from the Loan Account in support of the First 
Phase of the Program. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
Page  6
-
5
-
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period  shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program (including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement). 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; 
(c) 
an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program; and 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date June 19, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Palacio de los Misterios 
 
Plaza San Agustín 
 
Carrera 7ª. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
 
Bogotá, Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINHACIENDA 
43289 MHAC CO 
57-1-350-9344 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in  the city of the District of Columbia, U.S.A., as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By 
/s/ Alberto Moreno 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
Tobacco,  manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
7.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2010 through November 15, 2010 
 
14% 
 
On May 15, 2011 through November 15, 2013 
 
 
  0% 
 
On May 15, 2014 through November 15, 2015 
 
 
14% 
 
On 
May 
15, 
2016 
     16% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
First Phase of the Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower has attained, for the period covered by any three (3) continuous 
months among the twelve (12) months preceding withdrawals from the Loan Account, an 
overall deficit of the Combined Public Sector of no more than US$1,352,000,000 
equivalent to P$3,864,000,000,000. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has promulgated a tax reform law (Law 788 of 2002) to regulate, 
inter alia
:
a) the reduction of exemptions and expansion of the tax base for the value 
added tax; b) the reduction of the monthly wage tax exemption from 30% to 25% with a 
ceiling in the amount of P$16,000,000 per tax payer; c) the reduction of tax exemptions, 
tax credits and non-taxed income for personal income tax; and d) the phasing out of the 
corporate income tax exemption for capital gains from sales of stock, mutual funds and 
real estate, as well as for profits from corporations exempted under former tax law. 
 
3. 
MH, through DIAN, has enacted new rules for tax administration to regulate, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the obligation of financial institutions to withhold, at the source, taxes 
generated by daily interest payments higher than P$900; 
 
(b) 
the obligation of financial institutions to report to DIAN information on 
taxpayers’ accounts that are credited with annual interest of at least P$5,000,000 and/or 
have total annual deposits equal to or higher than P$50,000,000; 
 
(c) 
the obligation of DIAN to prepare a list of tax receivables due as of 
December 30 of 2002; 
 
(d) 
the obligation of DIAN to design a plan and set up a schedule to collect 
at least 20% of said tax receivables; and 
 
(e) 
the obligation of DIAN to establish indicators for customs clearance, as 
well as schedules and procedures to select shipments for inspection (based on a risk-
management system), all for the customs offices in Bogotá and Medellín. 
 
4. 
The Borrower’s Executive Branch has submitted to the Borrower’s Congress and 
said  Congress has approved, in a first round of debate, and as a prelude to potential final 
approval, a constitutional reform that enables the Borrower’s Executive Branch to 
enhance its management of the national budget within certain pre-established fiscal 
targets. 
 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
5. 
The Borrower has promulgated a law to enable a constitutional referendum (Law 
796 of 2003) for, 
inter alia
,
the transfer of royalties, collected by the relevant public 
entity to be used for educational services. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has promulgated a law to enhance the judicial defense of the state 
(Law 790 of 2002) to regulate, 
inter alia:
 
(a) 
 enhancement of DDJ’s capacity to represent Borrower’s public entities 
in litigation activities in Borrower’s courts of law; 
 
(b) 
obligation of the Borrower’s civil servants –in charge of the judicial 
defense of the state- to compensate the state for malpractice, bad faith and/or negligence 
in the performance of their judicial defense activities; and 
 
(c) 
training of the Borrower’s civil servants in charge of the judicial defense 
of the state. 
 
7. 
The Borrower’s Executive Branch has issued a Decree (Decree Number 2170, 
dated September 30, 2002) that strengthens transparency and objectivity in public sector 
procurement. 
 
8. 
Bill of Law 018/2002 (proposed to modify the current public sector procurement 
legal framework) has been introduced into and is being discussed at the Borrower’s 
Congress. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has initiated a process to create a commission for public asset 
management, in charge of, 
inter alia
:
a) preparing draft government policy in public asset 
management activities; b) defining the scope of work of said commission; and c) 
elaborating an operational plan to define accounting systems and inventories in public 
agencies. 
 
10. 
The Borrower’s Executive Branch has selected ICBF and SENA as the two 
government agencies that will be subjected to a performance audit of its FYs 2003-2006 
pilot management contracts. 
 
11.  
The Borrower has: (a) published its strategy of state reform; (b) established a 
high level commission for state reform and a task team for technical coordination of these 
matters; (c) formed task teams in each participating agency with coordination 
mechanisms with DNP; and  (d) developed a concept for public marketing of public 
sector reform activities. 
 
12. 
The Borrower’s Executive Branch has submitted to the Borrower’s Congress a 
bill of law for enhancing fiscal responsibility.
 
