Do_umnt hOf
The World Bank
pOR oMcIL USE ONLY
Rkpd N&o P-4U11-IND
.                                    REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt93 MILLION
To THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
June 13, 1985
This igeui ka iaochtu dhsiuuim md any be __d by Xedkt eiYIne Io      feumae Of
thdr .eIl  4iiL  ft =sum& ay ae edwgwbe be dbdmd wi     Wod Bunk auft@whe



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1,100 = US$1.00
Rp 1 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
I
BAPPENAS            -   Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (National
Development Planning Agency)
DGHE                -   Directorate General of Higher Education
EEO                 -   Educational Exchange Organization
GOI                 -   Government of Indonesia
LPND                -   Lembaga Pemerintah Non Departemen (Non-Ministerial
Government Institute)
Menneg Ristek       -   Menteri Negara Riset dan Teknologi (Ministry of State
for Research and Technology)
OFPIU               -   Overseas Fellowship Project Implementation Unit
REPELITA            -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita 1, 1969-
74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84;
Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94;
Repelita VI, 1994-99)
INDONESIAN RESEARCH INSTITUTES
BAKOSURTANAL        -   Badan Koordinasi Survei dan Pemetaan Nasional (National
Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping)
BATAN               -   Badan Tenega Atom Nasional (National Atomic Energy
Agency)
BPPT                -   Badan Pengkajian dan Penerapan Teknologi (Agency for
the Assessment and Application of Technology)
BPS                 -   Biro Pusat Statistik (Central Bureau of Statistics)
LAPAN               -   Lembaga Penerbangan dan Antariksa Nasional (National
Institute of Aeronautics and Space)
LIPI                -   Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia (Indonesian
Institute of Sciences)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia.  t
Amount:           US$93 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) strengthen
Indonesia's research and development capacity by developing
a nucLeus of well-trained Indonesian scientific and techni-
cal manpower through programs of study in science and tech-
nical fields; (b) develop effective policies and procedures
for the implementation and monitoring of overseas fellowship
programs; and (c) develop and strengthen collaborative rela-
tionships between Indonesian and foreign universities and
research institutions. The project would focus on the six
key government research institutes in science and techno-
logy, which would provide a pool of qualified candidates for
advanced training. The project would provide overseas and
local training and technical assistance in establishing a
management system and graduate reintegration program.
The main benefit of the project would be the improved tech-
nical and managerial competence of the project institutes'
staff and an increase in the country's stock of well-trained
scientific and technical manpower. The project would also
have a long-term impact on the university syste'm, which the
Bank is assisting under separate university development
projects. The major risk arises from the complexities of
managing such a sizable and diverse overseas fellowship
program. The technical assistance to support the establish-
ment of a management system should reduce this risk.
TIhisdocumct has a restrited disuibution and may bcused by recipients only in the peformance of
their ofriwiduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disAosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: /a                                 Local   Foreign   Total
- -  (US$ million)    -
Overseas Fellowship Program
Pre-degree preparation                      1.3      11.6     12.9
Overseas study                             18.2     49.6      67.8
Research                                    0.3       0.8      1.1
Subtotal                              19.8     62.0      81.8
Local Training Program                     16.2        -      16.2
Management
OFPIU operations                            3.2       0.8      4.0
Educational exchange organizations           -        4.0      4.0
Consultant services                         1.4       1.9      3.3
Reintegration program                       1.0       0.2      1.2
Subtotal                               5.6      6.9      12.5
Total Baseline Costs                       41.6      68.9    110.5
Physical contingencies                    4.1      6.9      11.0
Price contingencies                      15.0     17.2      32.2
Total Project Costs                   60.7     93.0    153.7
Financing Plan:                                    Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million)
IBRD                                -      93.0     93.0
Covernment                       60.7        -       60.7
Total                       60.7      93.0    153.7
Estimated
Disbursements:  IBRD    FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
(US$ million)
Annual             3.0   3.0   9.0  15.0  20.0  20.0  16.0   7.0
Cumulative         3.0   6.0  15.0  30.0  50.0  70.0  86.0  93.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5425-IND, dated June 6, 1985
Map'   IBRD No. 17980R1
/a Project costs include a small amount of taxes and duties (about
US$200,000).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$93 million to help
finance a Science and Technology Training Project. The Loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1X p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP Yer capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifth Transmi-
gration Project (No. P-4087-IND), circulated under cover of R85-167 dated
May 22, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on June 11, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for caLculation of GNP.



- 2 -
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the econDmy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 biLlion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60X of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand.  The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a)  a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financiaL reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introdaction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an



estimated 4.7% in 1983 and 6.5% in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5X of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4X
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where reaL
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal
discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983
and 9% in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for MediumrTerm Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
latory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while stiLl meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Governmenc is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. -The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready



- 4 -
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance markecing
capacity. However, over the Longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. in March 1985, the Government announced a major reduc-
tion in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
-- including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring
higher local content in production - have served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counterproductive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including deveLopment of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, difEerences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid



- 5 -
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The Labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3X p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
pr-iducing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agriculturaL
incomes wiLl be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This wilL require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of productior can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will aLso need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resour^es and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18Z of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60Z and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.



-6-
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) bor?owing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. -f official developa2nt
assistance and the balance from import-related cr dits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24X; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, Zhe total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancellations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million.  Annex II contains a suummary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1Z, and
the share of debt service, 10.32 compared with 13.3% and 7.9Z, respectively,
in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973174, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending in the
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifth Transmi-
gration Project (No. P-4087-IND), circulated under cover of R85-167 dated
May 22, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on June 11, 1985.



- 7 -
remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
Given the critical importance of agricuLture (including transmigration) for
empLoyment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transporta-
tion, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous pLans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alLeviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
tures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to recei-ze the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focuzsing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development



- 8 -
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking aLso to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especialLy true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       There has47een a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio -  from a low of 13Z in FY80 to over 192 in FY84.  The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
Lianagerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investm--nts, Bank-assisted and other.
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
PART III - THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SUBSECTOR
Overview
21.       To achieve industrial diversifi:ation and growth, Indonesia requires
an increasing level of sophistication in its technology. The Government began
to emphasize the development of applied research, particularly in science and
technoLogy fields, in the last decade. However, the major bottleneck - short-
age of trained scientific and technical manpower - remains a severe problem
which has hampered the progress of research and development. The Government
is making efforts to narrow this gap by improving its higher education system
with the assistance of the Bank and other donors. The Second University
Development Project (Report No. P-4047-IND dated May 1, 1985), approved by the
Executive Directors on May 21, 1985, is specifically aimed at building the
scientific infrastructure at Indonesian universities, but this is a long-term
effort. The Government is turning to overseas study in subjects where local
academic capacity is low or non-existent to help alleviate the immediate
shortage.
Demand and Supply of Professional Manpower in Science and Technology
22.       The shortage of high level manpower is most acute in the fields of
science and engineering. Bank and UNESCO staff estimates of manpower demand
show that 16,000 new graduates in science and engineering are needed annually
to meet economic growth targets during the next decade. Total university
enrollment in 1983 represents only 4% of the age cohort, compared with 22Z in
South Korea and 21% in the Philippines. About 455,000 students were enrolled
in public universities and 355,000 in private universities. Public undergrad-
uate enrollment in science and engineering, was only 50,000 in 1983. Private
undergraduate enrollment in these subjects is estimated to be roughly at the
same level. Moreover, the rate of student output is extremely low: there
were only 5,000 graduates in science and engineering in 1983, and only 160
have received post-graduate degrees since the mid-1970s, when graduate prog-
rams were first introduced. The low enrollment in science and engineering
reflects difficulties in developing domestic teaching capacities in these
fields. There has been an extreme shortage of qualified teaching staff, and
very limited investment in essential physical facilities such as laboratories
and experimental equipment.
23.       Aside from limited physical capacity, Indonesian higher education
faces major qualitative problems. University instruction and research in
Indonesia are adversely affected by inadequate staffing, paucity of inputs,
and low salary levels for university teaching, research and administrative
staff. Currently, only about 15% of academic staff in the natural sciences
and about 9Z of academic staff in the social sciences hold advanced degrees.
There is a serious shortage of textbooks and other instructional materials in
the Indonesian language. Library holdings are extremely few in number and
limited in scope. Students often have little access to laboratory and practi-
cal facilities to balance theoretical classroom learning. The internal effi-
ciency is also low, due to such reasons as the low level of educational
attainment of the faculty and insufficient time devoted by staff to teaching
duties.



- 10 -
24.       Graduate programs were only introduced in 1975 and will require
considerable time and effort to reach international standards. Currently, the
environment for scholarly activity in Indonesian universities is poor, with
less than one fourth of faculty actively conducting research. Research prog-
rams favor feasibility or evaluation studies and not the type of original
research required to nurture the development of a creative and versatile
scientific community. For the most part, university research has been uncoor-
dinated and determined primarily by the requirements of funding sources. It
also lacks the means to establish and maintain priorities and to disseminate
findings.  The two university projects being assisted by the Bank will
initiate improvements in the rese-rch environment of major Indonesian
universities.
Government Strategy for Provision of Higher Level Manpower
25.       The Government attaches high priority to expanding the capacity and
improving the quality of Indonesian higher education institutions. The
Government's education sector strategy is to provide a broad-based educational
system, formal and nonformal, to support national development goals such an
increasing agricultural productivity, expanding industrial capacity and
improving the country's basic infrastructure. In the short and medium term,
expatriate manpower, short-term training programs, and on-the-job training
will help to bridge some of the gaps between supply and demand for higher
level manpower. In the long term, substantial investment in education beyond
the primary level will be required. The Government also recognizes the need
for continued development of the private higher education system, and the
Ministry of Education and Culture provides subsidies, guidance and encourage-
ment through the Directorate of Private Universities. To alleviate manpower
shortages the Government has set ambitious targets for the growth of the
university system during the Repelita IV (1984/89).
26.       However, given the low output and poor quality of university
programs, expanding and improving domestic institutions is inevitably a long-
term task. Furthermore, graduate programs in many scientific and technical
fields do not yet exist in Indonesia.  Consequently, the Government has
decided to embark on a greatly expanded program of overseas training in
conjunction with the development of domestic graduate education. The benefi-
ciaries of the program would become the nucleus of the next generation of
Indonesian scientists and engineers capable of developing research
applications relevant to Indonesia's economic and social development and also
of influencing teaching and research programs in Indonesian universities.
Other Donor Assistance
27.       Bilateral assistance programs already include overseas fellowships
in these fields, but their number is limited. Out of about 1,500 fellowship
awards funded by the major bilateral donors, only about 350 each year are for
scientific and technical degree programs. The Government has sought a larger
number of fellowships from bilateral sources but has not succeeded in obtain-
ing a substantial increase. In general, bilateral donors have not emphasized
science and technology subjects, making it difficult for them to re-program
their training efforts quickly enough to meet the Government's new emphasis on
overseas training in science and technology. Many of the fellowships offered



- 11 -
are Linked to specific projects or restricted to certain fields. Overall, it
has been difficult for the Indonesian research institutions to plan training
effectively on the basis of bilateral fellowships, partly because so few are
available, and partly because it is difficult to match the conditions offered
by the aid agencies with the particular needs of the institution.
Development in Science and Technology Research
28.       The shortfalls in the higher education system have hampered the
country's scientific and technological research which is essential to its
industrialization and development efforts. In the last decade, the Government
has invested in procuring equipment and physical facilities for the major
research institutions both with its own funds and foreign aid.  This includes
a Bank-assisted project, the National Resource Survey and Mapping Project
(Loan 1197-IND), which financed equipment and buildings for the National
Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping (Bakosurtanal). However,
because of the lack of manpower to carry through the research programs
planned, the facilities of research institutes are under-utilized, and the
budget allowance for research is consistently underspent. The shortage of
well-trained manpower is particularly severe among government research
institutions, which face stiff competition from the private sector for
university graduates.
29.       Research Strategy.  Indonesia's approach to the use of science has
been to concentrate on its direct application to the nation's development.
Thus pure scientific research has been discouraged in favor of applied
research directly relevant to Indonesia's needs - for improving agricultural
methods or output, conserving non-renewabLe energy supplies, or increasing
industrial self-reliance. Indonesia's science and technology research
programs also emphasize the basic human needs of food, clothing, housing,
nutrition, health and education and the social impact of technological
development.
30.       Organization of Science and Technology Research.  In Indonesia, most
responsibility for research in science and technology lies with the Govern-
ment. In the private sector, the corporations which engage in research and
development are predominantly multinationals which conduct most research in
their home countries where equipment and manpower are available. The Govern-
ment's development expenditure on science and technology research was US$205
million in 1984, estimated at 0.2Z of GDP (compared with 0.9% in Korea and
'    2.8Z in Japan).  There are five classes of organizations carrying out scien-
tific and technological research in Indonesia. Research in the private
industrial sector is of minor importance, and directed mainly to the solution
of limited problems of immediate interest to the manufacturer. Research and
development activities in state-owned industries are more significant, but
they are still concerned with the immediate production and development
problems within these industries, and so are relatively narrow in scope. The
capability of the universities to conduct research has been limited by the
shortage of qualified manpower, the demands on their time of teaching and
administration, and other constraints such as inadequate laboratories, equip-
ment and libraries. These limitations will be addressed under the Second
University Development Project (Report No. P-4047-IND, dated May 1, 1985).
The ministerial research and development centers address problems of particu-



- 12 -
Lar concern to their Ministry. In practice, neither their staffing nor their
Laboratory facilities permit extensive or demanding research projects, and it
is common practice for these centers to contract out substantive work to uni-
versities or to the non-ministerial research institutes. The key institutes in
science and technology research are the six non-ministerial government insti-
tutes (Lembaga Pemerintah Non Departemen, LPND) which are concerned with
science and technology and related research: BAKOSURTANAL - National
Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping; BATAN - National Atomic Energy
Agency; BPPT - Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology;
BPS - Central Bureau of Statistics; LAPAN - National Institute of Aeronautics
and Space; and LIPI - Indonesian Institute of Sciences.
31.       The LPNDs support the ministeriaL research centers by undertaking
research conrracts from them, the universities by providing facilities and
staff, and private industry by developing industrial technoLogy and testing
materials. The LPNDs usuaLly disseminate their research findings through the
appropriate line Ministry. They also have close ties with universities, which
were recently formalized through cooperative agreements allowing university
staff and students to use the facilities of the research institutes. Many
research institute staff also teach at the universities. Consequently, staff
trained and employed through the LPNDs have a broad impact on the development
of science and technology throughout Indonesia.
32.       The LPNDs are equipped with the best research facilities in the
country as a result of considerable public investment in buildings and equip-
ment over the last decade.  In addition to existing facilities, a Center for
Scientific and Technological Research, PUSPIPTEK, is being built to provide
extra laboratory facilities for all of the LPNDs. This center is receiving
about US$300 million of aid for equipment from various donors, including
France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan and the United States. The
remaining constraint is the lack of manpower. Although the head of each LPND
is answerable directly to the President, and the ministerial research and
development centers report to their respective Ministers, the Minister of
State for Research and Technology (Menneg Ristek) has an overall coordinating
role for all research carried out by these bodies. The Minister is advised by
a National Council for Research and Technology. He approves the five-year
plans and individual research programs proposed by the LPNDs and ensures that
they will contribute to national priorities.
Bank Group Role and Rationale for Further Involvement
33.       Since 1977, the Bank has assisted five higher education projects in
Indonesia, involving total lending of about US$250 miLlion. These include two
teacher training projects, two polytechnics projects, and a university deve-
lopment project. In December 1983, the Bank joined the Government in launch-
ing a Higher Education Sector Study. OED Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) have been prepared for two education projects in Indonesia and the
lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
The PPAR for the Technical Education Project (Credit 219-IND) (No. 2998, dated
June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stressed the importance of including fellowships for
development of teachers and school administrators and appointing key staff for
project implementation in a timeLy manner. The PPAR for the first Agricul-
tural Training Project (Credit 288-IND) (No. 3508, dated June 30, 1980,



- 13 -
SecH80-527) stressed the importance of advanced preparation and the need for
carefully designed and suitable technical assistance components.
34.       The First University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND) was
designed to strengthen university management and raise the quality and number
of graduates in engineering, science, agriculture and economics at three key
universities. Although the project suffered from several implementation
problems, which have now been overcome, most of the policy targets, such as
teacher workload, staff-student ratios and admission policies, are well on the
way to being reached. The recently-approved Second University Development
Project will follow up on previous efforts by developing graduate education in
science and engineering fields, improving and expanding undergraduate educa-
tion through the introduction of new programs, and strengthening university
planning and management. The proposed Science and Technology Training Project
would complement the university development projects by meeting critical
shortages of professional manpower in science and engineering fields for which
domestic programs are not yet developed. The proposed project would be an
integral part of the effort to develop graduate programs and increase the
output of high-level manpower in Indonesia. Because of close linkages between
the research institutions and many of the leading Indonesian universities, the
project is expected to have a long-term impact, not only on the research
institutions themselves, but also on the quality of teaching and research in
the university system. It is also in direct support of the Government's
strategy of promoting overseas studies as a short-term measure to fill the
manpower gap. Recent Bank projects have supported this strategy by including
large overseas fellowship components. In the short run, overseas training is
a cost-effective way of meeting part of the country's manpower requirements,
since the low efficiency, as well as the limited quality and capacity of local
institutions, do not permit the production of the same number and caliber of
manpower as well-established institutions abroad.
35.       The proposed project would play an important role in the Govern-
ment's efforts to accelerate industrialization. The Government is aiming at a
quantum jump in its stock of scientific and technological manpower in order to
permit major industrial progress during Repelita VI (1994-99). The proposed
project would also help establish ties bet-ween local and foreign institutions
to enable Indonesian researchers to keep abreast of developments in their
fields.
36.       Another aspect of the rationale for Bank involvement is that the
project would develop effective procedures and local capacity for implementa-
tion of fellowship programs. From the late 1950s to the early 1980s, the
Government did not strongly encourage Indonesians to study abroad. Overseas
fellowship programs started to increase in recent years through Bank and other
aid projects. However, because of limited experience and contact with foreign
universities, the country has had to rely on international consulting firms to
manage its fellowship programs. The Government recently embarked on an effort
to promote self-management and a national committee to coordinate overseas
fellowships was formed (see paragraph 52). One of the tasks of the committee
is to formulate appropriate selection, preparation, placement and
administrative procedures. This project would help shape the national
procedures and benefit future education and training projects.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of State for
Research and Technology, with the assistance of consultants. A Bank mission
appraised it in September 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from April 29 to May 1, 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by
Mr. Wardiman Djojonegoro, Assistant to the Minister of State for Resarch and
Technology. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5425-IND) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
38.       The principal objective of the proposed project would be to streng-
then the country's research and development capacity by developing a nucleus
of welL-trained Indonesian scientific and technical manpower. Since the major
part of this study program would be provided in overseas universities, the
project would also seek to develop effective policies and procedures for the
implementation and monitoring of overseas fellowship programs. A third objec-
tive would be to develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between
Indonesian and foreign universities and research institutions.
39.       The proposed project would be centered on the six LPNDs under the
umbrella of the Minister of State for Research and Technology. Most of the
candidates would be existing staff of the LPNDs. Fellowships would also be
given to scientific and research personnel employed in other agencies but
engaged in research related to the LPNDs, and to a number of undergraduates.
Overseas Fellowship Program (US$81.8 million excluding contingencies)
40.       The project would finance about 1,500 fellowships in areas directly
related to the project institutes' research programs in the next decade.
Because of the wide range of activities of the research institutes, the fields
of study of the fellows would be diverse, but mainly concentrated in various
branches of engineering and the physical sciences. A small number of fellow-
ships would be in related fields such as management and information science,
contract and patent law, and statistics. These subjects would support the
scientific research programs and the institutes' social science research which
is concerned, among other things, with the impact of technology on society.
The Government would prepare each year, beginning January 1, 1986, and furnish
to the Bank for review and comment, a detailed fellowship program for the
following fiscal year (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       The 1,500 felLowships would include about 250 PhD programs, 650 MSc
programs, 300 BSc programs and 300 non-degree training programs. The first
and main source of candidates would be the 4,000 existing professional staff
in the LPNDs, of whom approximately 202 (750) would undertake graduate pro-
grams under the project. Another 300 would receive short-term non-degree
training, mostly in management, calibration, instrumentation and equipment
operation and maintenance. The current pool of staff eligible for training is
about 3,000 people and is expected to increase by about 500 by 1988 as new



- 15 -
staff are recruited.  At the peak year of the program, about 500-600 staff (or
15Z of the total professional staff) would be studying overseas. This is not
expected to have detrimental effects on the operations of the institutes.
42.       A second source of graduate candidates would be an "associates
program," which would broaden access to training under the project to scien-
tific and research personnel of other agencies who are closely associated with
the LPNDs' work. Most would come from government research institutions, but a
few would come from private institutions. About 75 graduate degree fellow-
ships would be awarded to associates. A third category of participants, also
expected to account for about 75 graduate degree fellowships, would be "mid-
stream fellows," who are already abroad on the basis of other funding, and who
would be recruited in this way as future employees of the LPNDs.
43.       To train middle-level technicians, about 300 fellowships would be
granted for undergraduate education, mainly in engineering subjects. The
LPNDs face stiff competition from the private sector for university
graduates. The opportunity for education and career advancement would offset
the disadvantages of low government salaries and serve to attract new staff.
By sponsoring undergraduates in this project, LPNDs would be able to select
from among the best secondary school graduates, thus ensuring a minimal supply
of young talented engineers to support their research programs. Undergraduate
candidates would include recent secondary school graduates, first-year univer-
sity students, or existing staff of the research institutes with secondary
school diplomas and several years of work experience.
44.       All candidates, including those who are not yet in government ser-
vice (e.g., private researchers and new secondary school graduates) would be
required to work in an LPND for two years for every year of study abroad.
45.       Procedures for Selection of Candidates.  Degree candidates would
need to: (a) hold a bachelor's degree for graduate studies and a high school
diploma for undergraduate studies; (b) preferably have three years' working
experience; (c) be younger than 40; (d) have good health; and (e) have demon-
strated strong ability in their work. Equal opportunity would be given to
female staff. The Government has designed selection procedures for this
project, based on lessons from previous fellowship programs, which are inten-
ded to measure the ability of candidates as objectively and consistently as
possible. Each research institute would prepare a list of its personnel who
t     meet the eligibility criteria and conduct a first screening of the academic
and work records of the potential fellows. The list of candidates would be
submitted to the Overseas Fellowship Project Implementation Unit (OFPIU)
(paragraph 54 below) for the next stage of screening, which would consist of a
written examination and an individual interview by a panel. Language tests
would be given to each candidate to assess the candidate's ability and train-
ing requirements. Candidates who had passed the screening up to this stage
would receive pre-departure language training. (On the basis of their per-
formance in the preparatory courses, some candidates would be eliminated,
while others would be invited back for another try during the next year's
preparatory course cycle.) Successful candidates would apply for university
admission. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that candidates would be
selected in accordance with these or similar criteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
46.       The selection procedure would be different for the undergraduate
programs in the case of candidates still in school. They would be selected
from first-year university students or recent secondary schooL graduates using
the Ministry of Education and Culture's normal selection procedures for
university admissions as a preLiminary screening. From this pool, the OFPIU
would screen the potentiaL candidates for overseas study through aptitude and
achievement tests. Successful candidates would have to pass the in-country
language training course before applying to universities abroad.
47.       Procedures for Program Identification.  To assist in identifying
appropriate and cost-effective study programs overseas, the following steps
would be taken. An Educational Exchange Organization (EEO) in each country of
study would submit about five possible programs for each academic field. The
OFPIU would review the submissions and seLect a limited number of institu-
tions. A team from the OFPIU including a representative from each LPND would
visit the shortlisted institutions to assess their capabilities, following
which the OFPIU would establish. a list of favored institutions for each field
of study. This procedure would be repeated on a smaller scale in subsequent
years in order to update information and identify new courses as needed. The
Bank would review this list each year as part of its annual discussion of the
fellowship program for the following year (paragraph 40 above). It is expec-
ted that most fellows would study in Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic
of Germany, France, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United
States.
48.       Pre-degree Training.  To ensure adequate knowledge of language,
foreign study skills and quantitative skills, the project would provide up to
one year of pre-degree preparation for each participant, in three stages.
First, prior to leaving Indonesia, candidates would be placed in special
courses for 6-12 months to bring their foreign language proficiency and
quantitative skills to the level required for admission to an overseas univer-
sity. This training would also further screen the candidates on the basis of
their performance. Second, once a candidate's language proficiency reached a
certain level, the student would proceed to a further three months of language
training overseas. Third, on admission to a university and completion of the
language course, candidates would move to the university and enter a three-
month preparatory course in their particular subject of study.
49.       Research.  The project would include funds to support research in                t
the course of the fellow's study.  An average of US$1,000 would be provided to
each PhD fellow for this purpose. A number of the PhD students would conduct
their practical research projects in Indonesia with the help of visiting
professors.  Such domestic research would probably be tailored more closely to
the needs of Indonesia, or the particular programs of the sponsoring LPND, and
the fellow would be working with equipment that he could expect to continue to
use on his return. The project budget would include international travel for
these participants ard a research grant for local research and travel. To
reinforce collaboration between the research institutes and foreign academic
institutions, the project would finance a limited number of visits to
Indonesia by foreign faculty members.



- 17 -
Local Training Program (US$16.2 million excluding contingencies)
50.       The project wouLd also incLude training in local universitiea and
institutions in degree and non-degree programs. The institutes would train
about 50 staff in PhD programs and 750 in MSc programs. They would also
finance about 75 selected undergraduates in their last year of study as a
means of recruiting new graduates. In addition, short courses would be
offered in areas such as computer operation and administration. Like the
overseas fellowship program, the local training program is based on the
manpower requirements of the institutes' research programs. The criteria for
selection of candidates would be similar to those for the overseas program.
Project Management (US$12.5 million excluding contingencies)
51.       The project would develop a system for implementing and monitoring
overseas fellowship programs, thereby reducing the Government's dependence on
foreign agencies for project management. Responsibility for the project would
be shared by: (a) a National Steering Committee; (b) a Project Steering
Committee; (c) an OFPIU; td) local and foreign consultants; and (e) overseas
educational exchange organizations. The reliance on foreign agencies would
decrease as the OFPIU and local consultants gained experience in implerenting
the fellowship program.
52.       National Steering Committee.  The Ministry State for Administrative
Reform has recently formed a National Steering Committee for the Utilization
of Foreign Aid for Training Civil Servants. It coordinates all government-
sponsored overseas training and is concerned with developing effective
national procedures for the planning and implementation of overseas fellow-
ships program. The national committee also oversees implementation of two
fellowship programs for the core agencies - General Participant Training II
funded by USAID and the training component under the Bank-assisted Public
Works Manpower Development Project (Ln. 2258-IND). This national committee
would provide appropriate advice to the Project Steering Committee.
53.       Project Steering Committee.  The Ministry of State for Research and
Technology would have overall responsibility for the project and would consult
with the National Council for Research and Technology on matters of national
policy. Project activities would be supervised by a Project Steering
Committee chaired by the Assistant for General Planning at the Ministry and
including representatives of the LPNDs and the National Development Planning
Agency (BP2PENAS). The Project Steering Committee would: (a) approve all
candidate selections; (b) review budgeting procedures and quarterly finAncial
reports; (c) review consultant contracts; and Cd) ensure coordination with
other Government fellowship programs (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       OFPIU.  Responsibility for the day-to-day functioning of the project
would rest with the OFPIU which has been established under the Ministry. It
would make the final selection of candidates and overseas institutions
proposed by the LPNDs and consultants, coordinate the implementation units of
the research institutes, and be responsible for disbursement of funds and
signing of contracts with language schools and consultants. The Bank's finan-
cial assistance to the OFPIU would include funds for equipment and inter-



- 18 -
national travel. The office is adequately staffed for the initial period of
project implementation with a director and seven officers from the Education
and Training Division of each LPND. However, it may need to be expanded
during the peak years. The Government would maintain the OFPIU throughout the
project and furnish to the Bank for review and comment any proposals for
changes in OFPIU management and staffing patterns (Section 3.06(b) and (c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Consultant Services.  The project would finance about 170 man-months
of foreign consultant services and 360 man-months of local consultant ser-
vices. The consultants would help the OFPIU to identify educational institu-
tions and programs overseas, establish a data base for the program, operate
the monitoring and evaluation system, and development of detailed arrangements
fo- the reintegration of returning fellows.
56.       Educational-Exchange Organizations (EEOs).  These would be agencies
within each country of itudy, experienced in placing, caring for, and monitor-
ing overseas students, and familiar with their country's higher education
system.  An EEO could be a government body, a commercial firm, a university or
group of universities, or an individual, provided that it can fulfill its
obligations efficiently in terms of speed, accuracy and human care.
57.       Reintegration Program.  A critical aspect of project management
would be arrangements for successful reintegration of fellows following the
completion of their studies.  The project would ensure that the LPNDs planned
their programs in such a way as to ensure that returnees' newly developed
skills would be put to good use. Psychological problems of reintegration and
potential conflicts with co-workers and management would also be addressed.
The details of a reintegration program would be developed and furnished to the
Bank for review and comment by July 1, 1987 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The OFPrU would establish monitoring and
evaluation procedures to govera the program and ensure achievement of targets
for academic performance, cost effectiveness and administrative efficiency. A
monitoring and evaluation system for the entire program, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be established by December 31, 1985 and a mid-term evaluation of
the project would be furnished to the Bank, for review and comment, by
December 31, 1987 (Sections 3.06(d) and (e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       As part of the monitoring and evaluation process, mid-program con-
sultations would be held with fellowship holders. At the end of their first
year of studies, all fellows would be consulted to evaluate their respective
EEO's performance, assess the quality of the academic and preparation programs
and provide general feedback. Within six months of the return of a particular
group of fellows to Indonesia, a post-return seminar would be held. This
would provide an opportunity for comment on the relevance of the fellowship
programs to their jobs and the quality of the reintegration program.
Implementation Schedule
60.       The project would be implemented over an eight-year period.  The
long project period is necessary for the following reasons. Because of the



- 19 -
large number to be trained, the departure of the participants would be phased
over five years. Some of those leaving during the fourth and fifth years
would not return until the eighth year. Given the importance of reintegra-
tion, full Bank participation in this process is desirable. The project comr
pletion date would be June 30, 1992 and the loan closing date would be
December 31, 1992.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
61.       The total cost of the proposed project including contingencies would
be US$153.7 million equivalent, of which US$93 million would be in foreign
exchange. Taxes and duties (about US$200,000) would be negligible. Cost
estimates are based on April 1985 prices. Costs for overseas fellowship
training were estimated at about US$18,000 per man-year (including tuition,
living and academic allowances, travel and management). This is an average
based on a recent survey conducted by the Bank on fellowship costs in various
countries. The contingency allowance of US$43.2 million includes: (a) phy-
sical contingencies (US$11.0 million) estimated at 10% of base costs; and
(b) price contingencies (US$32.2 million) calculated on the basis of the
following percentages: local - 8% for 1985-90 and 5% for 1991 and subsequent
years; foreign - 5% for 1985, 7.5Z for 1986, 8% for 1987-90, and 5% for
subsequent years.
62.       The proposed Bank loan of US$93 million would meet the full foreign
exchange costs of the project, or about 60% of total project costs. The
Government would finance the remaining US$60.7 million of project costs from
its own resources. Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million would be
included to cover project expenditures incurred after appraisal, i.e.,
August 31, 1984. These include start-up costs for the project management
system and the costs of preparing the first group of students for overseas
study in the academic year beginning September 1985. Annual recurrent
expenditures generated by the project are estimated at about US$1.0 miLlion
(at 1984 prices) in 1992. This represents an increase of about 4% in the
research institutes' recurrent budget and would not pose a significant burden
on the Government. Moreover, in addition to government allocation, the
institutes have other means of cost recovery, such as carrying out research
contracts for other agencies, to meet some of their operating expenditures.
Procurement
63.       Equipment to oe procured under the project is estimated at about
US$300,000, including contingencies, and would mainly consist of microcomr
puters and typewriters. They would be off-the-shelf items not exceeding
US$50,000 for each package and would be procured on the basis of a comparison
of quotations received from at least three suppliers. Books and journals in
foreign languages would be purchased directly from publishers or distributors
after negotiating for the best discount-. Consultants would be selected in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers". Foreign academic and scientific institutions to which students
are sent would be selected mainly on the basis of academic quality and costs
and their selection would be reviewed with the Bank.



- 20 -
Disbursement
64.       The proposed loan of US$93 million equivalent would be disbursed on
the basis of: (a) 100% of total expenditures for overseas fellowships, study
visits and pre-degree training; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
equipment, 100Z of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 70% of local expendi-
tures for other items procured localLy; (c) 100% of total expenditures for
consultants' services; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for books,
journals and research allowances. No disbursements would be made for local
training and local research and operating costs.
Accounts, Audits and Reports
65.       All project agencies would prepare and maintain separate project
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and documen-
tation supporting statements of expenditure would be maintained separately and
would be readily available for review by visiting Bank missions. During nego-
tiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a) accounts, statements
of expenditure, and financial statements for each fiscal year would be
prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial statements, for
each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report, would be furnished to
the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
66.       As a result of the proposed project, a nucleus of about 1,500 scien-
tists, engineers and other professional-level manpower would be trained abroad
and another 1,200 would be trained within Indonesia. On their return, they
would directly strengthen the research and development functions of the LPNDs,
with the objective of accelerating the country's industrialization. They
would also add considerably to the small stock of Indonesian scientific and
technological manpower conducting research in the public sector and would
influence teaching and research in their fields of study in Indonesian
universities. The links between local and foreign institutions that would be
established during the project would enable Indonesian researchers to keep
abreast of developments in their field. Furthermore, a mechanism for
assessing degree courses overseas, placing, administering and monitoring
students would be developed and the reliance on overseas implementing agencies
reduced. This experience would assist the National Steering Committee on
training to develop national policies for the management of overseas training
which can be used by other ministries and projects.
67.       Through the establishment of the management system proposed under
the project, the risks inherent in such a large fellowship program would be
reduced. The selection procedures involve a series of specially designed
tests and interviews that would ensure the objective selection of the best
people. While not infallible, they should ensure that candidates are selected
primarily on the basis of merit. The selected candidates would go through a
preparation program for training in language and basic skills, which is expec-
ted to keep failures to a minimum. Another risk of the project is that of a
possible "brain drain". From past experience, the return rate of Indonesian



- 21 -
students is extremely high.   The monitoring system to be set up under the
project, the continued contacts between the research institutes, and partici-
pants during their studies overseas, and the reintegration program should
serve to minimize this risk further.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 13, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANs I
-22-                                         Page   of 5 pages
zminun                - mkOAL IMIcAom  0a
INDO=IIA                            RPNIN  aOps (URZCRf AVRCS) f
maT                     (NMT   NTIAT) A
ja C      s         w 1  mW              -I     Diemou
i,eotk     196070  Suma           AA & vAIInC            AT. ANICA A Ca
ama 0In1m A.. E)
TOTAL                             1919.3      1919.3   1919.3
ACKIWLIUUAL                        296.5       307.1    317.3
r--a an  Can)                          90.0      150.0    560.0             1091.2                  210B.6
m    mIce   n CNn
(CILOWIAS aF OIL MEUIVALE)          88.0       91.0    191.0              567.3                   9,5.5
1 - VITAL 57AU31
POPULAXIIXOU.HID-EA  (CuoSAn)    94680.0   116201.0 152596.0
OUR    VOPLATION CZ OF0 TOTAL)      14.6       17.1      22.3              34.7                    66.5
vOrUIIJfOu  1aWECTONs
POPULATION IN EAR 2000 (KILL)                          12.0
STATONATW POPULTIN CHILL)                             370.1
POPULATION IOM                                          1.9
POPULSflON CERSITI
vER SQ. gm.                       49.3       60.5      77.9             261.9                    35.7
Pa SQ. n. ACt!. LAND             319.3       376.4    471.0            1735.1                    92.4
POPmATn   AE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 nRs                         40.7        ".0      39.5              39.0                    39.9
15-4 IRs                          56.2       53.4      57.3              57.6                    56.0
65 AND Aovz3.1                                2.5       3.1               3.3                     4.1
POvUMnION COM RATE (1)
TOrAL                              2.1         2.0      2.3               2.3                     2.4
UNBAR                              3.7        3.6       4.5               4.3                     3.6
CRUDE  UInTH RATE (PER IOUS)        44.2       41.0      33.6              30.1                    31.3
CRUDE DElAT RAIl CPR TNOUS)         22.9       17.6      13.0               9.5                     6.1
GtOSS RER0DOUCTICS BATE              2.7        2.7       2.2               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLNKIC
ACCETOIS. ANIUAL (IROUS)            ..       161.1   3051.0
USES (Z OF "mAD lrsE)               ..         ..      53.0 Ic           52.7                    40.3
WOOD A   oni
IN OF MMOPOD- EUII PECPXTA
(1969-71-100)                       93-0      102.0    L17 -0             123.0                   114.3
.El CAPIO SUPPY oF
CAWm  CZ OF l:QlllRtE1U)          86.0       96.0    tlO.O              114.4                   110.6
PROrEIl  (GRAMlS PER DAY)         38.0        ".0      49.O              57.0                    67.3
OF W     ANIIUL AND FL           6.0        6.0       7.0 Id           14.1                    34.1
Q=D (AGES I 4) OE   STZ             22.9       16.9      23.0               7.2                     5.7
LIt EXPECI. Ar Ulllll YAR)          41.2       47.0      53.3              60.4                    647
DlAUr -RI. UAIE tCpz T7WII)        149.9      120.9    102.0               66.3                    60.6
v5w5a  oe 0
TOTL                               3.         3.0      23.0              37.0                    65.4
PROENS                                       10.0      41.0              57.8                   76.3
RCFAL  C.                                      1.0     I7.0              26I4                     46.2
OINAL                               .         15.0     23.0              41.3                   5609
ORUI                                ..        19.0     20.0              37.0                    67.0
RRAL                                ,,        1.0      24.0              33.3                    74.5
PORUALAT1 STCIAX 4780.0    165.0   110.0                                   26 779.4                97.7
POP. Me llUISxC PERSOO            4510.0 if  7680_0   m3om T7-           2460.4                   815.8
POP. PEI CT DSPITAL  SSD
ALN                             1360.        1.0 120.0                    7 104.2               367.2
UU^li                            250.0         . .    JO.O 77;          651.2                   *1t.5
RURAL                               ..        ..      260.0           32.6                     2636.3
Ara.IvsP N ROSP-L                 4510.0         _       2234 .            27-0                    27.3
AVRG STZE OF BlXXElILD
T0AL 4vs oS                                              ,.                ....
A                                  4.0        5.3         ..               .2                      .2
RTOAL                              4.3        4.7
AVERAZ No. OF PERSoNS/NOS
TOTAL                               ..         1.5
URBAN                                          1.6
RIURL                               ..         1.5       .                  ..
ACCSS TO ELECT. C( O DOULLINS)
TOTAL..                               ..        .                 ..
RURAL..                               ..        .                 ..
:.:   ~~~~~~~Tmk



ANNEX I
-23 -                                      Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESA               - SOCIAL INDMCATORS DATA SIll
XIDONUI.A                           RIWERENC  O       (WIZZTED AV1RAURS)  a
MOST                    (MMS RECET IThUT8) /b
RECENT           HIDDLR 1NCC           MIDOL zucar
196ot      197iLb ESUMTEL          ASIA  & mPCIFC         LA1. AS 6ICA  aR
ADJUSTED ENROLIXM  RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    71.0       77.0    100.0              102.0                    105.4
MALE                    86.0       83.0    106.0               105.9                   106.3
FEULE                   58.0       71.0      94.0              98.2                    104.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   6.0        15.0      30.0              46.0                     43.2
HALE                    10.0        20.0     36.0              48.7                     42.3
FEULE                    3.0        10.0     24.0              43.1                     44.5
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECODNDAR)          20.4       22.1      13.4              17.5                     33.6
PUIL-TEACES3 RATIO
PRDImaf                            39.0       29.0      32.0              31.8                     30.1
SECONDRY                           14.0       13.0      16.0              23.5                     16.8
ADULT LITERACT A122 (Z)              39.0       56.6      62.0              72.9                     79.5
PASSENGER CARS/TROtSAND POP          1.1         2.1       4.4              10.1                     46.0
RADIO RECEXVERS/IHOUSAND POP         7.2        21.9      42.4             113.6                    225.6
TV RECEIVERS/7BOUSAND POP            0.1         0.8       9.6              50.1                    107.2
NEWSPAPER (ULY GENERAL
INTZEREST) CIRCI.TIOS
PER THOUSAND POPULIAION            11.0         ..      17.7              5 S3.9                   63.5
CIMNA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       2.8          ..       0.8 di            3.4                      2.8
TOM  1ABOR FORCE (Ta0)            34791.0    1090.0  54689.0
FPAUE (PERCENT)                    27.8       30.9      29.1              33.5                     23.2
ACRICULTURE (FERUENT)              75.0       66.0      56.0              52.2                     31.5
INDUS  (PERCENT)                   8.0        10.0      12.0              17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RLTE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              36.7       35.4      35.8              38.7                     32.2
MALE                               54.2       49.5      51.1              50.9                     49.3
FEALE                              2O.0       21.6      20.7              26.6                     15.2
ECONOaC DEPENDENCT RATIO             1.2         1.3       1.2               1.1                      1.4
IN Drsnm
PERCENT OF P9I1AIE INCUS
RECEIVED BY
RISEEST 5       OUSEOLDS            ..          ..      23.5 I            22.2
REST 20: OF HUSEBIOWS                ..         ..      49.4 7            48.0
LOWEST 20X OF HOUBEHOLDS            ..          ..       6.6 7             6.4
LOWEST 40Z    R BOUSUOLDS           ..          ..      14.4 L            15.5
s    TARG  IOUS
-SINM  A UZ POSRY INCS
LEVEL COUS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                 ..      124.0 /t 124.0 /i           UIS.6                    288.2
RURAL                               ..       106.0 71 106.0 71           152.0                    184.0
ESTIMATED  WE T   POERI  ICUS
LE  CUSS PERM CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         ..    119.0 /i           177.9                    522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      98.0 7           L64.6                    372.4
*               ESTIDAfl POP. BElW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM LEVEL (S)
URBAN                               ..        51.0 /i  26.0 /i            23.4
RURAL                               ..        59.0 7T    ".0 7'           37.7
NOT AVAILAZ-
BOY APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  Tbe group averags for eclh indlator are population-weigtod arithmetic sean. Coverage of contrie. aong the
Indicatora depends on avalLab..ity of data and i. not uniform.
/b  Unlea  otherwie mated, lDatdt for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1l1; 7 ata for 1970 betwe  1969 ad
1971; ad data for "Not  leat EatiatoC between 1980 ad 1982.
/c  1983; /d 1977; 1a 1979; /f 1962; 4L 1976; / 1975; /i 1980 price.
JUNE, 1984



'395  -a  .'tsi- -si efspqq    A.1a  tol
SJllmsqiq  %.u  AIMS M5-5   -n    t iooo            te-a .        I-
asq lea-n-nl a -Ilola ki-  - c-aqua-  -q  s- ,uq u-a
OK--        =,-    in P-Ssl5iitl  - cu.wj .STo.d - s-a   a--
-i    nuil-A naTats  nesas5r-.i  -Cs"-ga
caa-iaao " ss-(-.A n  titi   tna                                                                     -.- t     --iii 5l-   tJi WCs  c'-aljdn ass
'n.etes I" Cst '50%1 liOtil nil11 in-aMst at" J,as
-1.1-... *a  ali eisa-at in.-) n ,sw So a.  aaa-uiat-hi n  -sit af s-an   .                        n-a. - Ci- la slam a- fuslC   l
iqi-(s~ l j-sI nf   iais  -i-i-sq. -ges i1-Uiloila Psnsls                                                                                   SLIMl
luuus   a V-if - almost    i53  -Sas -5 Cii 3  ft  s-sadsscmur-es  es'tosnt.a   asp.-   -a
.Md- AM al-s-f- a. cast-i  It 5tooi ft LA.sad esstin.. ete                         Ssqtdsi  -. a-a ldias oa- o,, -u a-acts.   -- .1*  s5 d-1  a-
1- a-  c-t u-os-ta    -aui-Ia-aL-Cns-so-s P--I-a- P-'sq, s.d  qop lint  - (P--%.o a.   isIiiIai -t                                                     N~a
-  ol -5maftoa inZ;euC itt--- -ad anyp                                             li.p    tsss-~st i- eastIott   wai  naf`lt *.ClsdI  enin -  A c_IJaP
igt1-  q50a a-tn is-oit       s si -i tns7ni   LSi-n  *."awso                        eni i. Suds-d   sfs-5u-11 t c.Is-ss-a  *u..  ti-aa  -ass a-ft
- stS  en ioS -  siss- a-sast-I is.j  ia.   -saa-   cSnists*-i- _                                        -a  en01   east 'to-tnW t uSjnqI Pend Vt-".P
-ol3oa %it0d-Ptl  %ss. c.-sda-Iaa  sq pt.s                    .qs    M.set So u-1'-sd 'pi -sq -j a-an  - us  SAnd sa-   s
en'nlA-sniAt in -sidiSn                     -Ia- latau-5iC  sqL                 nal Ls- "ffl-i" t 1-        ni  it a4   0i iq   aat oa- os-w
ladle .5flf  "MIS-!                   s-so   "ititd s-eno sqPli-O  -31 0i qatqa' is 'tIStAsd ald
l.si pasi Vsa A% pmslqusqs- Catln  51t -J  S-Ctii
it--aad 4w  s-an-   nnsaie d              'a-i    M  -rsqs  's-sia                  -    s.nc-acnc   A. Atd- s- -'w  . cia J.IM- St
sataAen-i  er-a p-p.a  i s-osmC    ntsA, a. atsna                                .stiti ad ISu.a Ctlg   ip-n.)Cit  J. 4luSoh ..in-
-Ji S  iualid ot 3ssa-ts. .. *=a-Itta`d  as iJ. .assp     -a     at
-(o-t  cOWi areas nsa-iS a  lassas. as                     'isAm 'M       a54-5tass                 APfi'I-enlst
CiiaS  1 so. fit aaI            A.ale   Is as  - -si-i Z Csta'  it-nag                lai   a; lea. t-as3ttil.od So c-s-o an 0 c-la-us  sin
'ia  .-m-a -iasIa--i                        ..auibf  -tflsl1-is3P S iant. Me iasl-    s    -ai ha p-  ilsi
P-as -Ia  mitn    .-itdd  q  is silaa. i-F.i ksivol;is                          o..ap-    t  ip-I gisir.Is  Si 'Oit5   -ft n            en 'olas
s-sii-a flijslaa.d tell   Poes   -   sis     So 'asictt en 'cast 'Outl                 s-s iia-M  issqsdaitesu&i                  ddac _q.1oav 'Asp
tLInlaiSis  0 ft,  it a   .sIidad iu-n p en  - uttlas p. siin-.id                   -  naa ad AS-an Ms n atC.I-i.sgfi -s in; as aj.          as .
Som   SRo n-u at-a-a  nu    ials  pIta-I  -  s-l   AiAts.-                       -J Ps.A-as  - (ilii -a  Ja iS-aai) -Tac.. A. '5I-.. t-siAa
a- i-tlilfllid - fiil en  51'C  1ti5 - (aiais)~55t 5151                                It!)tlatd      '.-Pis-_ -1   -Po
alai 'olot   -a S-c  n   n                                             et  n'es  fltilIfitl' td  iesda-aitit-                         A isq
eat'51ta-  i-  tiiapac-a - J.          en-ass-   'aasiasaisaia                               A:-   os-lacsdsisia'pass -oboai en nip
en la5asi-  'Sn asooal-u  rnatw it  as) Aann -                                       -s3f1- ') isslai  iili-  c-s utospila oap~  (a.Vi J. coS-'o  isis
en Sl..s-io'As3-is  'ls.ui1 ti a-a -j sr     asissalwstaM n- .ias  aa~s  'nilc                                        enI Atit it naaaaeia  1
-aasa is-5 s-it  p a-uassii s-- -i Stq "od st.   (ta-) ---a                 sst.PI --     - ea p-s-aht -ses a-,Id-rayi   -s  "-
i-    n   C  i55s           is   Ilsstiis      t~ I-a.f i.ss.Al
klsnta  - as-c-i i-sa-I l-spsas. inc-s-ta   en ini;                         -Sal  - sim"  ao-)o cialiit  i          -audS.sAa s-lgana
Soan   o-Poo' ts-  51-n                     c-as- .d .Al-aiatd       - - (a dna-  a. n aai  a5 T- ai-i.pLt5
pf iso     -     taai as   nIPta  i-nw 3                                         Fo uS. ks 0nd Al-I tfl5i  -1- iiasds      All- i-siltisin- tsato i
'SioolpI  i; ioS 55' i                  A-ldt"~i  taola   ii-dll  "a                                   (c*lq   s        iatl     ttidS
-P  -6 tfttn                45q    n      iuaaSs-isll-5Si.  aa-sAd uo-`tnsAs sqi if P.""S nliti-WAta tis 
'3ii-j. is -  Pti- i &i lostsis.1l  -r- s.an  il en s-.las-a` Il                 a Aa iss          ..ataa   a. an_ asia  - n.eK .ssa'eS   *...
_Iin-_  i1t 1- 31- s-st  IC iltlt     ena a-i alod  ti                                                              'IP -l,t en'at'u   i
55 a5PiA -l ta11-  AL - eIltai  p.fo 0-            aa) 15i-a   U.                 -nd-c. J. cS-",sa   qspinP    cat    )  u   a-  pa
insm-         - s isaq in   ~ inS   -s-ni aj - iliilItj it mm                        pt      ooeina. A" -ono..      i   er=6-7 A-s-osSi -30  Sit pC
.5pFa it so-sa-s.Sfl  it-am        51- oosin  Cs Cma-sa c--lilCI                                              1t-5"15t enMt.P5  C'et-   l
...as-   .Tofldhd a. P-Ra -ad simod lens   ss-s.i  .'i   sslotsin -.Cloa - (i.6gj 5il 55Si n 5-d
"W. -3   ~~~ a- -dft gTv   ~           -s-ao  htsw                     P-ti' P-5  'ta  I5'aO1-t1--esai!.o   inaoatda
ais-laS taa   O-ir-n  eialaienosi)sI  iisa                                       npoa  itsai   .en   en ia-S 'oegps 'Mai en-'eao-
-a-  -olkooooow7M      ~      ~      ~      illain                Itsas-Psi 'J. o S te).d   Jesa P- oloia5 s9_p-isil   aaa-
s-(liie   iao- soat % ailo - .a Pdis     1-- eaiaisa  S-     - -ata-asitstr--aic tete-                                   es 'nest--F-. tea  w-ft
is c-I- st-n- snt - aic-as.  en -a-taI-" sI"                            .ton         o) o     n-MA .aa.s,twd'-liP SOS! 'P
'tanlasiniSa.Mn. it sas-ssdip    a- Alsi-aad -aa5Iis  -liusis    .an  aitlsioSo sli 'P- w
-sinot-    Sitisoss s 'tiaifialt i-Al-  caus                         it-aT -sI sql o -alseta sq-s iitvlse          SA lidid5i52 l-l5ll
-tints-I ttitai5 - (at-stan is  -s-s-;--i - i-is                       -oi ieS 11-i -43a f-s-rn ldtl4 asA3  -i ni-dd   l- 
'caPslsss isslataS             s-i~~J . o.  'Le   css-a no  S aM  nslissadia inal. s-i  sa  i
ncnas- lla     'i-  ~,nra ."SM - All.ds-Al aq                      .us   -0  Oq ollts  - i.li-.a.I-d-   s.o 13 sqa. r-ti
l~tssi   -usqudr-.   '-ft miS  s-idA .- as nats   ii--                        'lass i-m-il.lTaa s -l.   ssa i---s-t-p a.- n-2 s   en'P-AM
Aiin  Iil S    c-~~~~ - ia A en  tn-tn-s - isqlop-P acI-"                         sqa iswP  3" -sutoiali   t-titsto  c-si-redsla"Ins-i,
sAk    n o`st q   -sq    a-, S -a lt-    n-a~                              -I-  c-is-i- ad-  .- aZaIn-  SAtss. l,ooPsi   s0 ni  sNNat
i-.sd m  1-   in esma- 5.at s- a-ic  a-iss .1on. -s nwee    ins- sit. -q asasis  at uS '.   s-  a n  s-ssp- 
Sao-s w i-i-s  s-as 3"-li  tsat ltaslis  a-a  - ws.c                           -Pt  n i   -las olO we 'n3lA.l t9 3S  i.  'Ct-ma .    MI-oba Po,
I-S ie  s-l ns.~  .S  J. L5s-is- taalseta .k-Fp. sqstsns --s sn-I annl4-i   -    'Poo. f1--(I-ss-  s-sqs
s-aS- sl, - nAs.id lsp- isq Aanad-    q l-taod -P"s-i     -sssAS                    stsaiasid-   toi'-sa)Wsi..  d-  lSo ." An.   ooolssqsai
ol-di-I in  t-Plaolu.s-  si -fiiffn'-- S- ins-s am,iss                             "la"isS llsiV"en           .t "Osiit-sthn-all
v- .1-Ilosal  -t-i  -       s-s-  tati-isP-sSW'siidid  Tsasida-oa Po-pan   Ptusai en Sas Itsn                          "s A"'sas
-1-" so-11-al               sit-  iu- en=ds-at  os is  Iscana-p  ktusaa- i  Sol- k""
.  . ... ;Ag                                                      ._tisd c1dts.u  S.e us, utiiae n-as sstsi a11--i a.aiinit-ot anssa   'I-at
o                               i-ni-an. cishis-~~~~~~O'n leasa en'asqissit t  -  ss.ida aw                      - flnq oas- anined sttIqi v siAmSn -51 
st-c  aa. So-Soen 'i  optlr  -   atII as-ls 'niaa-I p anna  t.aP.nyvoft
.'u-sSod tidsAti-ii i-i ctlO'4 loseip retdo  en* autas                                              a
sisiss ks-i Caa- -   1s-e~sc-ia. i-u     lil-5  eipsoa.   . -iisl    s-  liqsi -sal-P  n    a ct-i-i i                      M6 tialJ nui-ita  la-
oln ewnn -is-s 'Jss-  -            -A  "  Pi-assv tis1ss .ci sAls a-isPA..am 6-.J.A~- ...8
t-   p-                     wMW _.1'up-a p it-ta sq
.Saa.ssc s-el -stis- p in  in-I    05541tiMoni-a.nl                                                                  '-s-c testmi  en 'eastt
td-av.o0*4. ic-is-ISvi-p sq 'qesidIst le-s  'ccSi-s in  -   --  0
utsa.s   Lttot-lad aspaaau initlo.sua_  '-8latSoi  n all--soo                  M    .to s      oto" .J ooaa"Iq.0'1n.S.Sres,tooen 'o d 'P.s
en-tIe3 Auini s-i     al-sIs i-s- WIt " stsd-s 'ia-li  .-s ta-sA,isocss               t --iio r v-i s-Il Tos-s  %oan-s    d pt-.fpailalf5 ri- A- M       d Cu
t-- sesAdR   ens-t"&-  Ass itin. -SM-lid e   stoi -alo, Iio.aie                     'itsd itsa  wiia&-   maSudn -lsds- ai 4-lS WfIiU
sen teastd- rs-3 lsalss Ise -sidau a palls- ej.asa c- 'soqs
P.Sp*.  n-wor0- M.Stoe-K -omo                     ksaaln-                  'outk znsIi li -as-4.  M.a " s-oai en moan  A.t  tsn  east2
kssiss       a     Aetac .sssdd     5iM-r1Wr5U                                                                                   '-siP tessP enggs~
'tnt istsanen - t.us-sl i-lenl Vale                               411'ou ltall-i c-n  enl -- sin ent   v-aSiinl  -- naa'.ttL--
"s ssi    A. a. AuSo -fs-   At-         ie  ant-  -.M             nt5li            -onaes fttl.tidad - tat  -haa  q  flop SWi.lae ni-ea iit'isit
we . Agsamm -a   a.lws -sol aa   -i. "W 1MI oSo  Ins-oaIt$."-ialoa-i  CA)t e  s-n  ti            P- o     "ta   u-atlas-n is -As Ci n.- 110s.-a  s-sqs 
p-  -a-   -13-Sol.3 p   .1P sosalm"'s-,latinM us-siso m-s    -s ittlse i-a-noo5"'" ` a             ISea  s-ipl'sIsS mas sapa . ASS d-11
ea is-- a.s-5qAn  an- W"sA-pu   's-c wep -aepasists , -i tli    a.1atup, So c" .sonstodn -ass-s-11S enscasens  a. el t maa,aS e-I n-.          soi
ti-us-inla-s   o   in-v Pq sto. c-n -,i-   cts o ;   it PisOis ean ousinafiis  s1in-a  pi-cfl Moest-at i'ouiem soms-I Ron- "li maim) 0300510  u.Nu
"ll P do-11 Axmoo -P amle  -    -9--  Mal51 a.VJtUS A    -SIts.(J Pas inthillid     -q     PPON4JSO--1()M~-oklamoJl-
*,Svd  q ;oCSWL~~~~~~~~~.-aml -ll-lpm-.13eol.Was p  oas SIIvl.Mw-&  W oloa
InER-.-tlaml   wo- I    -pMflp"-a   usmsTo's-I 4P                                        baSPa   3"jPFopPo   s   M     SP -                     l



- 25 -
ANNEX I
rags * of 5 Pages
Populatlon       155.8 *lllion (mid-1983)
CGP per Capita: USSS60 (L983 estimate) 
INDONESIA - ZCNONOIC INDICATORS
Amun
(million US$ at                            Annual growth rate (Z) /b
current prices)                Actual                                 Prolected
Indicator                           1983         1950   1981   1695    195L3  1541 Is L95.   U56   1987   188   lS8Y   199D
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Ic        78,344         9.9    7.9  -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                    20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                       29,896        12.5    8.5  -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                       27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
ConSumption                      62,731        12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross invesement /d               18,908       18.9   11.1    8.5  -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CMPS                   19.508       -5.6   -2.4 -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
Imports of CGNS                  22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2  -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Gross untlonal savings            12,273       33.2 -20.0  -11.3    3.7   1B.4  -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
CDr-defLator (1981 - 100)                        91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Rp per USS)                      627    632    661    909  1.026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current  urices)               _      _ er 1  annual increase (Z) /b
1960   1970   197S   1980   19B5   1990       1960-70   1970-5   1975-8D   1980-83   1Y55-90
Gross domestic product         100    100    100    100    100    100          3.9       8.4       7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                   54      47     32     25     26     25         2.7       4.1       3.3       4.1        3.7
Industry                      14      18     34     43     38     38        5.2       12.0       9.8       3.4        4.2
Services                      32     35      35     32     36     37        4.8        9.7       9.5       5.6        5.5
Consumption                   91     89      79     71     78     76        4.1        8.4       9.2       6.0        4.0
Gross investment /d            8      14     20     21     18     19        4.8       18.3      12.2       2.6        5.4
Exports of GNFS               13      13     23     31     25     24         3.6       9.2       2.9      -1.1        4.0
Imports of CNFS              -13    -16    -22    -22   -21    -19          3.2       22.1      14.0       2.6        2.5
Gross natiocal savings         5      9      17     26     19     21        6.1       23.1      14.2      -0.3        6.8
As Z of CGP
1960              1970              1957               1980               19B4
PUBLIC FnINANC /e
Current revenue                              11.7              10.1               17.4              22.5               21.5
Current expenditures                         14.0               8.4                9.9              12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit t-)                  -2.3               +1.6              +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
Capital expend-iture                          n.a.              5.0               11.3              13.0               10.0
Foreign finAncing                             0.2               3.5                3.7               3.3                1.8
1960-70         1970-75         1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual OUP growth rate (t)                          4.5             7.6              7.1            4.1              4.7
Annual CNP per capita growth rate CZ)               2.4             5.1              4.7            2.0              2.5
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)           2.2            11.2             11.0            1.4              4.6
ICO1                                                2.2             2.2              3.3            4.8              4.0
Marginal savlngs rate                               0.30            0.48             0.28          -0.01             0.29
Import elasticity                                   1.2             2.8              0.84           0.57             0.53
/a  Estmates.
71  At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
Te- At market prices.
71r Fixed investment; stock changes are included In consumption.
7e- Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Zast Asia and Pacific Reglon
May 31, 1985



- 26 -
Population        155.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                  ANNEU  I
CNP per Capita:  US0560 (1983 ettimate)                                                                     IFge s of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAThENTS MMD EET3AL CAPITAL AND DOMr
(Millions US$ at current prLces)
Actual                                Projected
1950     1981     198Z      1953  -lS4/-  1S53    1986    1987           1990
LALANCE OF PAYMENTS/b
1.  Exports                                    22.885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20,243  20.769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                   17,297   18,824   14.744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   23,848
(b)  Nonoil                                 5.588    4,170    3.928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  imports (Including net NFS)               -17.589  -22,570  -22,339  -19.655  -17,611 -19,066  -20.783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  Oil sector                            -4.050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,839   -3,135  -3,801   -4,113   -3,619   -6.540
(b)  Nonoll imports                       -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14,899  -16,462  -22.438
(c)  NFS (net)                             -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1.570  -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2.608
3. Resource balance                             5,296      424   -3,667       162   -2,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4.  Factor services                            -3.165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4.528   -4,994   -5.708  -7,287
(a)  interest public debt                    -823     -994   -1.145   -1.256   -1,620  -1,598   -1,851   -2,132  -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                           -2,342   -2,216   -2.428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4,487
5.  Capital grants                                 76        67      105       95       100     112      119      125       150
6.  Balance on current account                  2,207   -2,719   -7,135  '-4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790  -2,439   -2,488         -
7.  Direct foreign investment                     140       142      311      193      250      250      275      300      375
8.  Public X & LT loans
(a)  Disbursemeut                           2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Amortization                            -936   -1,053   -1.102   -1,295   -1,628  -1,980   -2.137   -2.545   -4,603
(c)  Net disbur.ements                      1,615    1,620    3.090    3,670    2,220   3,008    3.291    3.523    2.289
9.  Other capital (net)                        -1,488      -31       455    1,975      287    -143      -104     -418      133
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)            -2,736      9B8    3,350   -1,619      -87-3   -400      -672     -966     -309
11.  Net offlcial reserves                       7,342    6,354    3,004    4.623    5,496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9;384
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NUS                                       6.5       4.4      2.1      3.5      4.6      4.6      4.7      4.9      4.5
Memorandum Item
Net toreigu assets of the banking
systemic                                    10.787   10,622    6,322    8.395    9,930  10.331   11.003   11,969   13.819
Total reierves in months of nonoll
imports + NFS                                  9.6      7.4       4.3      6.4      8.2     8.1       7.9      7.8      6.6
ETERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disbursements                            2.551    2,673    4.192    4 965    3,828
Concessional Loans                              '658      '*1       6-89     60S      '51
Bilateral                                                                         Wm
IDA                                           42       69        78       60       54
Other                                          6        7         8        8       19
Nonconcessional Loans                          1.892    1 880    3 503    4 357    3,277
Bl ateral                                    'a B8*   'RSF
IBRD                                           331      314       505      489      772
Other uultilateral                              52       85       126      160      163
Private-source                               1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed le           14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686   22 863
Offlcial-source               -:i  J3 9             UD5 5U5
Private-source                             5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                             9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
Total service payments                       1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
Interest                                     823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                     7.7      8.9      12.0     12.9     16.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (Z)           8.1       8.7      9.2      8.8      9.1
Oftlcial_sOurce                                5.4      7.8       8.8      8.7      8.6
Private-source                                12.4      9.4       9.5      8.8      9.8
Average Maturity of New Loans (Years)           18.8      15.5     15.2     15.1      15.9
Otticial-source                               24.4     20.5      20.6     22.3     20.9
Private-source                                 9.8      11.1     11.1     10.3      9.2
As 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                            34
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                           65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                          7.0
/a  Estimates.
7W  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Te Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7T  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7Te  At end of period.                                                                         East Asia and Pacific Region
7r Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                  May 3, 1985



-27-          -             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                         Amount (USS million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less canceLlations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                               1,584.59   642.71          -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                            140.00       -        68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           65.00       -        29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                    -       49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                           77.00       -        23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                      54.00       -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                 42.00       -         8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                               123.20       -        19.59
9L9    1979   Transmigration II                              -       67.00       0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration It                            90.00       -        86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                175.00       -        41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                          35.50       -         9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -       12.00       7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III          99.00       -        34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                 -       45.00      27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                           -       37.6       15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II              -       42.00      24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00       -        53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV           42.00       -        29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultuxral Research              35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                 -       30.00       5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                 253.00       -        86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development              46.00       -        33.06
1904    1981   University Development                       45.00       -        37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00       -        21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                            22.00       -        13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00       -        24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



28                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           161.00       -       114.44
2011    1981   Second SmaLl Enterprise Development         106.00       -         8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00       -         75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                              170.00       -        84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00       -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00      -         85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -        63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00       -        76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -        21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00       -        48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00       -        41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           68.10       -        59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -        19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50       -         4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00       -       256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and SmallhoLders VII         154.60       -       152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40       -        21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00       -        28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                       30.60       -        27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -       158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -       107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        62.34
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20       -        53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -       235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.65       -        39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.70       -       204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -        64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -       209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                             5G.00       -        50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         77.81
/a Not yet effective.



... .  - 29 -             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation la        11.30                11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II /a         131.00      -        131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
-30 -                    Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinang           Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism              9.8      1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4      0.7        6.L
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9        -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinang           Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -        1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4       -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9        -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material         48.0       5.0      53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         5.0       0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0        -        25.0
Total gross commitments                         143.6      19.6     163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             107.6       7.4      115.0
Total held by IFC                                36.0      12.2      48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                     9.5



- 31 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          10 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:          Ministry of State for
Research and TechnoLogy
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:             July 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   August 1984
(e) Date of departure of post appraisal
mission:                                  February 1985
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:          May 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
Ca) prepare each year, beginning January 1, 1986, and furnish to the
Bank for review and comment, a detailed fellowship program for the
following fiscal year (para. 40);
(b) ensure that fellowship candidates would be selected in accordance
with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 45);
(c) furnish details of a graduate reintegration program to the Bank by
July 1, 1987 (para. 57); and
Cd) establish a satisfactory monitoring and evaluation system by
December 31, 1985 and furnish a mid-term evaluation of the project
to the Bank by December 31, 1987 (para. 58).



IBRD 17980RI
-P    ~ ~ ~ ~ \             TSAJLANO         tOQ12.',                                                                                                                                    BDOONEtA
i;    PH1UPPINES                   POPULAilON DENSllY BY PRONCE
(1980 Census Data per kn')
BRUNEI-
L            !                 ,%                                                   4                               t         0         t tA L                                                 "3-OAYSIA                        |
R.                                      /                                                                       e                                                                        V93 -11027.
S 0NGAPORE                                                                                                                                                       3-   18-
'N...                                                                    " 
O.K JAKCARTA    G                                                                                                                                                                             A
p    AORJAIMN                        :.
I.  U1ATAN        '  I                                                                    a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 
-. lIN tAN                                                                                                                                                 la Sea.~4' 
Bar..
BAFtAl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I    NW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                 ~            '
~~ ft ft,~~~A ....I ft l~~~~~W8.~~ ~d ft ~~~                                  DATA ACTrAO'AILADLIP
4.IUR NATECAA     fweCwft        ft W    -ddbeUa  ft N0WW" Sftwiz SW
I ;                ,  f F W i G M SM  iw R   m m y k   w  & V M Y   b o M m ofM   M .VS N W   d b f Wi
JANUARY I 5'



