Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12560
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORr
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2599-IND)
NOVEMBER 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12560
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
ris doument ha a rsktited ditibuton and may be used by repiens only in the perormance of
their officid dutes Its contenSt may not othewse be dicosed wihout Wodd Bank autboiaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency: Rupiah
At appraisal (9/84): US$ = Rupiah 1,100
1985/86:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,100
1986/87:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,100
1987/88:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,644
1988/89:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,686
1989/90:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,770
1990191:   US$1 = Rupiah 1,843
1991/92:   US$1 = Rupiah 2,020
1992/93:   US$1 = Rupiah 2,050
ICAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS                    National Development Planning Agency
DGHE                        Directorate General of Higher Education
EEO                         Education Exchange Organization
LPND                        Non-ministerial Government Institute
MEC                         Ministry of Education and Culture
MENRISTEK             :    Ministry of State for Research and Technology
OFP                         Overseas Fellowship Project
OFPIU                       Overseaw Fellowship Project Implementation Unit
Repelita IV                 Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984/85-1988/89)
STM                         Middle Technical School
Sarjana Muda          :    Similar to bachelor's degree but with lower status
STAID                       Science and Technology for Industrial Development
Si                          Bachelor's degree
S2                          Master's degree
S3                          Doctoral degree
INDONESIA RESEARCH  NSiTurFS
BAKOSURTANAL          :    Badan Koordinasi Survei dan Pemetaan Nasional
(National Coordinating Agency for Surveying and
Mapping)
BATAN                       Badan Tenega Atom Nasional (National Atomic Energy
Agency)
BPPT                        Badan Pengkajian dan Penerapan Teknologi (Agency for
the Assessment and Application of Technology)
BPS                         Biro Pusat Statistik (Central Bureau of Statistics)
LAPAN                       Lembaga Penerbangan dan Antariksa Nasional (National
Institute of Aeronautics and Space)
LIPI                        Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia (Indonesian
Institute of Sciences



FOR OMCAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SAA.
Offlo of Oifrotr-Gneral
opotaon Evluation
November 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO TPE EMECUTIVE DIRE=gORS AND THE PRESIDE=
SUBECT:  Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Science and Technoloyv Training Project tLn. 2599-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Science and
Technology Trainig Project (Ln. 2599-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the project history and results. A
noteworthy feature is Part I, which is a self-contained implementation report with a great
wealth of information.
The outcome is rated as satisfactory: training targets were in most cases
exceeded, and less than 10 percent of all overseas fellows failed to complete their studies
(most of them in the initial years when selection and placement procedures were still
being fine-tuned). It is remarkable that only 2 out of 1321 overseas fellows who
completed their studies did not return to Indonesia.
Institutional development was substantial and the sustainability of benefits is
likely. However, these two aspects of project performance could stil be improved upon if
the remuneration and working conditions of returnees were upgraded, in line with the
valuable- expertise they have acquired.
It is planned to undertake a project performance audit of this project as an
instructive example of a successful professional upgrading operation.
Attachment
|This docuwnS hm a reWcdad dldrbution and may bo u:, ed by rt-Aplents only In fth pedw  of theier dRoWa 
duUm bl contents may not ofthnovse be disclosed wthot I Workc Bank auo nWf



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2599LND)
PROJWr COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTES
Page N16
PREFACE  .........................................................               i
PROJECr EVALUATION SUMMARY .iii
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA PERSPECIVE .1
Project Identity .1
Project Background.                                                 I
Project Objectives and Description.                                 2
Project Design.                                                     2
Project Context.                                                    3
Project Implementation.                                             4
Project Management.                                                 7
Project Financing.                                                  7
Project Outcome.                                                    8
Sustainability .13
Bank Performance .14
Borrower Performance ............                                  15
Lessons Leamt and Future Directions .15
PART II. PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE  ........                   17
Introduction .17
Strengthening R & D Capacity .18
Developing Policies and Procedures for Implementing and
Monitoring Overseas Fellowship Programs .52
Re-entry Program .79
Collaborative Relationships ................    90
Conclusions .92
Recommendations .93
Attachment 1: Midterm Review Recommendations .95
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .........              ......................   101
3.1 Related Bank Loans  ...........     ........................   101
3.2 Project Timetable  .............   ........................   103
3.3 Loan Disbursements  ...................................   104
3.4  Project Inplementation .................................   105
35  Project Costs and Fmancing ..............................   109
3.6  Project Results  ..............  .........................   112
3.7 Status of Covenants ............    ........................   114
3.8  Use of Bank Resources ..........    .......................   115
MAP - IBRD 17980R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorztion.



- i-
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan # 2599-IND)
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
PREFACE
Ihis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Science and Technology
Training Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2599-IND in the amount of USD 93 million was
approved on July 2, 1985. The loan was closed on March 31, 1993, three months behind
schedule. The extension of the closing date was made to cover expenditures up tfll the end of the
training program. Over 99% of the loan amount was disbursed by that date.
T1he PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Division of the East Asia
and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and Ell and one annex), and
the Borrower (Part II and two background reports).
Preparation of this PCR was started during review missions in November 1992, and
February 1993, with discussions on draft Part I conducted in May 1993. It is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports both for this project as well
as the follow-up Professional Human Resources Development Project (Loan 3134-IND);
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank Memoranda.



- fl -
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECI
(LOAN # 2S99-IND)
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives asd Des%n
L          The objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen Indonesia's research and
development capacity by developing a nucleus of well-trair:d Indonesian scientific and technical
manpower, (b) develop effective policies and procedures ;- the implementation and monioring
of overseas fellowship programs; and (c) develop and strengthen collaborative relationships
between Indonesian and foreign universities and research institutions.
H.         The project supported human resource development in the six non-ministerial
government institutions (LPNDs) coordinated by the Minister of State for Research and
Technology, through the following three components: (a) provision of about 1500 overseas
fellowships and the necessary pre-degree traing in language and other skills; (b) provision of
about 1,200 fellowships in Indonesian universities for degree programs and short-term training,
and (c) establishment of an overseas fellowship project implementation unit (OFPIU) and
provision of local and foreign consultants to carty out selection, placement, monitoing and
evaluation of the overses fellowship program and the reintegration of returned fellows.
ImpementatIon Experience
iu.        The project was conducted in accordance with the plan presented in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), with some exceptions The Loan became effective in September 1985.
The closing date was extended from the original December 31, 1992 by three months in order to
allow the loan coverage of stipend for fellows up till March 31, 1993. Overall, project
implementation was satisfactoxy. The OFPIU established procedures and guidelines to implement
selection, placement, pre-departure training, as well as monitoring and re-ently support activities
for overseas fellows. Individual research institutes took responsibility in managing local traing
programs.
Results
iv.        A total of 1560 fellowships were granted, of which 241 were awarded for those
suaccsslly continuing for higher degrees (e.g. undergraduates proceedig to masters programs).
These comprised 223 PhDs (89.2% of the SAR target); 554 MScs and 306 five-year master's
degrees (132.3% of the SAR target); 259 BScs (86.3% of the SAR target); and 218 non-degree
fellows (72.7% of the SAR target). For local training progams, the SAR target of 50 PhDs was
met, with a total of 52 fellows. The numbers of undergraduate and short-term training progams
far exceeded the SAR targets. Only about a quarter of the 750 MSc target was achieved.
Fellows were placed in 14 counties in North America, Europe and Asia. Overall, 13.9% of
felows were female, with the largest concentration of female fellows coming from LIPI (20.6%).



- iv
v.         Most fellows were able to complete their studies within the period envisaged with
some specific exceptions. Out of 1560 fellowships granted, 142 fellows or 9.1% of felows
returned without completing the programs as planned. Out of 1321 fellows sent abroad and
about 936 fellows completing their studies, there have been only two cases of non-returm to
Indonesia, both of which resulted from marriages. The 99.8% return rate is much better than
anticipated. Out of 936 students who have already returned, only 19 or 2.3% have left LPNDs
for other jobs in the countly.
vi         Professional productivity of returning fellows as measured in terms of numbets of
R&D projects undertaken, numbers of patents obtained, numbers of academic publications, as
well as overall levels of income including earnings from secondary jobs have been reported
satisfactoiy. Returnees are generally satisfied with their studies and resulting personal and
professional opportunities. However, there are indications for a need for improved worldng
conditions such as remuneration, access to up-to-date information resources, matching of their
skills and career opportunities and facilities.
ViL       lTe LPNDs report that the return of highly qualified staff from the Fellowship
program is having a beneficial effect on their research tasks. The improved profile of staff
qualifications has enabled the LPNDs to appoint well qualified staff to senior structral posidions,
where they include planning and development responsibilities, and to functional researcher and
other posts where they are responsible for the development of new laboratories and programs.
viii       Although it is difficult to accurately measure project contnbution, a number of
collaborative relationships are reported to have resulted from the direct and indirect interventions
of the OFPIU, including new programs in domestic universities in collaboration with LPNDs, and
joint research and training.
Lessons Leant and Future Directions
iL         The following are major lessons learnt from this project for future applications:
(a) Deslgn Issues
a. Review of S&T Manpower Demand. Since the overseas fellowships were to
be used to provide a short term solution to the supply constraints of the domestic
education, it would have been useful to review more carefully the nature of the
supply-demand gap for graduate education. Qualitative and quantitative discusions
of demand for high-level scientific and technological manpower from higher
education institutions, other public research institutions, and private employets
would have been helpful in determining and justifing the scale and coverage of the
overseas fellowsbip program for meeting the needs of the country.
b.  fHigher Education Development Strate. The need for overseas fellowships
would need to be reviewed continually in fight of a broader higher education
development strategy. While weaknesses of the domestic university capacity would
continue to require overseas fellowships as a short-term measure, it would be
increasingly important to institute mechanisms that enhance consistency and
prioritization in awarding feltowships to specific candidates or institutions.



.-v
c.  Institutional Corage. he six LPNDs supported under the project do not
constitute an exclusive group of research institutes of importance for the country.
Even outside of lhe university sector, which is another set of institutions that
requines future attention for research capacity building, departmental research
institutes under the departments of Agriculture, Health and Industry have important
roles to play. Any future strategy would need to be reviewed in light of S&T and
research priorities for economic development needs of the country, and specific
mechanisms through which R&D efforts would be translated into benefits to the
economy.
d. Public Role in R&D and Strategy for Research Capacity Building. More
broadly, the public role in applied R&D, and the impact of such R&D upon
industrialization appears to have been assumed. It is increasingly important to re-
examine the public role in R&D in an environment of private-sector-led
industrialization.
e.  Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators. Though the project reporting has been
generaLy satisfactory, little attention had been paid to establishing monitoring and
evaluation indicators until the preparation of the PCR was initiated. Project
implementation as well as review would have been greatly facilitated, if at the
outset: (a) a set of specific monitoring and evaluation indicators were established;
(b) a baseline performance data were established. It would also be important for
performance monitoring both for individual returnees and LPNDs to be continued
beyond the project period, as planned by the OFPIU, in order to measure long-term
returns to investment.
(b) Implementation Issues
f   Administration of Fellowship Program. The most important lesson to be learnt
from the project is that it proved to be possible to develop an internal capacity to
administer a very complicated fellowship program with specific inputs from the
domestic and foreign technical assistants. Specific lessons include:
(1) Use of Educational Exchange Organizations (EWs) has been important
especially during the initial phase of the project. There has been concerted
efforts on the part of the OFPIU to their inputs to a more specified and
narrowly defined function as OFPIU developed internal capacity to cope with
many of the issues. Conversely, constant re-assessment of their role has been
an important factor in the development of internal capacity.
(2) Centralization vs. Decentralization of Monitoring Resobilities. In the
initial years, the economy of scale and lack of knowledge base in LPNDs
necessitated monitoring activities to be heavily centralized at the OFPIU.
Later, it has become possible to decentralize some of monitoring
responsibilitils to LPNDs.
(3) Use of Disbursement Accounts has been an essential factor in managing
the difficult task of delivering stipend payments to hundreds of students in over
10 countnes. The early experience of self-management indicates that design of



I vi I
a disbursement system that can put students overseas at risk must be
undetaken with extreme carem
g.  Bank SuMeViion The following could facilitate implementation: (a) organizing
speciric training sessions on procedural issues; (b) including RSI members in
supervision missions; and (c) using review missions to bridge the gap between
projects with important complementarity.



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2599-IND)
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
PART k PROJECT REVIEW AND BANKS PERStPECTVE
Project Identity
Project Title:     Science and Technology Training Project
Loan No.:          Loan 2599-IND
Loan Amount        USD 93 million
RVP Unit:          East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:           Indonesia
Sector:            Population and Human Resources
Sub-secton:        Education
1. &SkWMad
1.1       Starting in the early 1980s, Indonesia experienced external shocks including
deteriorating terms of trade, primarily due to reduced oil prices, and international currency
fluctuations which added to debt service payments. In response, GOI undertook a broad range of
structural adjustment measures, to expand non-oil exports and to promote a more competitive and
dynamic non-oil economy. In 1985, when the project was appraied, emphasis was placed on the
need to diversify Indonesia's industrial base. Two constraints were identified: (a) inadequate capacity
of the domestic higher education to meet the increasing demand for high level manpower especiall
in the fields of science and tecbnology; and (b) weaknesses in science and technology research.
1.2        Low Capacitv of Domestic Higher Education. In contrast to the anticipated rise in the
labor market demand for high level skills, manpower supply was expected to be sevrely constrained
in the short to medium term both quantitatively and qualitatively. GOr's decision was to foLow a
dual strategy. (a) to set ambitious targets for the growth and qualitative improvement of domestic
higher education; and (b) to meet critical shortages of trained manpower in scientific and technical
fields through a greatly expanded program of overseas training.
1.3        Weaknesses in Science and Technology Research. Another key issue was the
weaknesses of scientific and technological research, which was seen as an essential factor for
Indonesia's industrialization and development efforts. Private sector research activities were
insignificant and directed mainly to the limited problems of immediate commercial interest. R&D
activities in the state-owned enterprises were also limited to addressing immediate production
problems. Research capacity of the university sector was weak due to inadequate laboratories,
equipment and hibraries, and required an intensive and separate strategy. Public sector research
institutions comprise ministerial research institutes (e.g. Agriculture, Forestry, Industry,
Communications and Health) and non-ministerial government institutes (LPNDs). The former group
was regarded as weak both in terms of staffing and laboratory facilities. The LPNDs were equipped
with the best research facilities in the country as a result of considerable planned irnestment for
buildings and equipment. They were regarded as central to the research community, as in addition
to their main missions they supported: (a) the ministerial research institutes by undertaking research
contracts, (b) the universities by providing facilities and staff, and (c) private industry by developing
industrial technology. At the same time, staffing in these institutions were regarded as the main
weakness in enabling them to step up their services. They were therefore viewed as the logical
target for further capacity building by a development of a nucleus of scientists and engineer



-2-
II. Itr.oiect ObjediMtiand Dscrinn
1.4       ObJctives. The objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen Indonesia's research
and development capacity by developing a nucleus of well-trained Idonesian scientific and technical
manpower; (b) develop effctive policies and procedures for the implementation and monitodng of
overseas fellowship progrwns; and (c) develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between
Indonesian and foreign universities and research institutions.
1.5       DL%in in. The project supported human resource development in the six LPNDs
coordirated by the Ministry of State for Research and Technology, through the following three
components: (a) overseas fellowship program: provision of about 1500 overseas fellowsbips Ad the
necessary pre-degree training in language and other skills; (b) local training program provision of
about 1,200 fellowships in Indonesian universities for degree programs and short-term traiig; and
(c) maagemen: establishment of an overseas fellowship project implementation unit (OFPI  and
provision of local and foreign consultants to carry out selection, placement, monitorins nd
evaluation of the overseas fellowship program and the reintegration of returned fellows,
in. hjroJ LcIv
1.6       Rational  The justification for the project was based on two types of constra[W., the
inability of the domestic higher education system to produce qualified scientific and techological
manpower, and wealnesses in staffing for S&T research to support Anther industrialization and
development efforts. At the time of project preparation, the examination of S&T manpower demand
was based upon existing broad data, and did not differentiate either qualitatively or quantitatively
between sources of demad such as the private sector, higher education institutions and public sector
research lnstitions. Similarly, mechanisms through which strengthened S&T manpower was to
influence industrialization and development efforts were not discussed in detail.
1.7       bslona. The project selected public sector non-departmenl research
instiue to support the development of scientific and technological manpower. The main reasons
given were that: (a) dtey were the main bodies that were responsible for public sector researh
activities, and likely to have the greatest impact on te broader research community; (b) they
constituted a cohesive group coordinated by a single minister; and (c) they were relatively well
equipped with the main weakness in human resources. The resulting group of instiutions consisted
of a broad range of actviies: national sreying and maping for production of nationa atlas and
local maps by the National Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping (BAKOSURTANAL);
research on nuclear applications in power generation, medicine, agricultue, and industry in the
National Atomic Energy Agency (BATAN); research and development activities for technology
transfer by the Assesment and Application of Technology (DPIT); national stical data collection
and dissemination including population census, industry as well as socio-economic surveys by the
Central Bureau of Stadstics (BPS); research activities related to aerospace research including
meteorological observation, environment monitoring, satellite communication, and rocket technology
in the National Instute of Aeronautics and Space (LAPAN); and a broad range of research
activities in social, natural and engineering sciences, as well as scientific infratucural activities
such as calibration/instumentation and standardization in the Indonesian Inttute of Sciences (LI).
Given th  diversity, the Bank decided that it was not possible to exmine the rationale for the
institutional coverage in terms of industrial or research sategies, and that investments in human
resource development would be justified provided that their broad research objectives were in line
with national priorities and sisfactory to the Bank. The mechanisms through which these



-3-
nsitutns were to Impact the greater reseach comnunity were not discussed In measrable tems,
partly becaue project was seen to bear benefts only in the long term.
1.8                                                          Th wit Domestic Universit DLVe4R=    le project was to be 'an
tegral part of domestic education development.' It was designed to address the short-term
capacity constraint of domestic universities through use of foreign education. Two mechnims
were to ensure such complementarity. First, the proposed large domestic fellowship trainin
component (a major part of the GOI contribution to project finmcing) was to channel increased
resources to domestic university programs. Second, linkages between LPNDs and universities were
to be stengthened duough the use of associate fellowships.
1.9          rnnt D.aign  Given its objectives and coverage, the project's design facilitated
effective implementation. It was recognized that management for a fellowship program required
development of diverse knowledge base and procedures, and a separate component was designed for
ftis purpose. The project design provided sufficient initial guidelines for selection processes, both
of individuals to be sent as well as programs in which they were to enroll. However, the difficulty
of setting up an internal capacity for managing a fellowship program of this scale and coverage was
pehaps not fully anticipated at the time of design. The project represented the frt attempt in the
country to administer an overseas fellowship program covering a wide range of countries of
destnation. Many of the important operational details of project management, including the
e-stablshment of guidelines and policies, were developed following the mid-term review.
. -0     iuomDle          Agen=st. Given the institutional coverage, the selection of the
implementng agency, the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPI) was
appropriate. The amirve unit within BPPT where the Overeas Fellowship Project
Implementation Unit (OFPIU) was located, provided support to the Ministry of Research and
Technology (MENRISTE), and was directiy responsible for personnel management of BPPT,
Including staff development. With close support from the Minister, BPPT was also able to provide
te needed services to the other five LPNDs.
][. agjrg con
1.11      The project was seen to be complemetr to a set of interventions in higher education
and vwoatinal education. Between 1977 and 1985, the Bank financed three relevant higher
education projects in Indonesia including: two polytechnics projects which supported the
development of post-secondary vocational education insttions; and the First University
Development Project (Loan 1904-IND) which supported university mmnagement and quality
upgrading in three key universities. Ihe Second University Development Project (Loan 2547-IND
FY8) then under preparation, supported the development of domestic graduate education with a
focus on science and engineeting fields, and inproving and expanding undergraduate education
through the introduction of new programs. The Manpower Development and Training Project (Loan
2705-IND) was also under preparation to support the development of a national vocational aining
ystem to meet employment and industrial development needs. During implementation of the
project, furtier Bank support was provided to the university sector through two Higher Education
Loans, Loan 2944-IND (FY 88) and LAnn 3311-IND (FY 91). Ihe main focus of these loans was
the iovemet of quality of u aduate programs, particularly in science and engiea ing, and
both included provision of fellowships for domestic and overseas training for university teachers.
1.12      In addition to the above, in 1988, the Government of Japan's Overs  Economic
Cooperaton Fund (OECF) supported a Science and Technology Manower Development Project



-4 -
(STMDP) which provided about 500 fellowships for overseas degree and non-degree training of
LPND staff. The Professional Human Resources Development Project (PHRDP) supported by the
Bank, Loan 3134-IND (FY90), included a component on Science and Technology for Industrial
Development (STAID), which In addition to supporting improvement in science and technology
policy analysis and management, also included a program of about 370 domestic and 780 overseas
fellowships for staff of LPNDs and strategic industries. In 1991 the OECF provided a
complementary loan for Human Resource Development which included a program of about 400
fellowships for LPND staff. These three fellowship programs were managed by the OFPIU
established under the Science and Technology Training Project. Lessons learned in the
imwplementation and review of the project were incorporated in the subsequent projects in order to
improve the selection, placement, monitoring and re-entry and follow up of fellows, as described in
the following sections.
V. Project Impiementation
1.13      The project was conducted in accordance with the plan presented in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), with some exceptions. The Loan became effective in September 1985 and closed on
March 31, 1993, after three-month extension. The closing date was extended from the original
December 31, 1992 in order to allow the loan coverage of stipend for fellows up till March 31,
1993, which were made from the contracted disbursement account. In order to provide sufficient
tme for project disbursement requests, additional four months up till the end of July 1993 were
given for closing of the loan account. Overall, the project has been implemented well, with strong
commitment and willingness on the part of the implementing agency to (a) evaluate performance; (b)
take actions swiftly when problems were identified; and (c) report and document procedures, actions
and results. Particularly important was the leadership within OFPIU, without which many of the
difficult implemention problems would not have been addressed.
1.14     QOerseas ellowshi Program Plaming and Management. In the course of
implementation, and particularly after the Mid-Term Review (para 1.21), the OFPIU gave extensive
atteion to the development and implementation of the data bases, procedures and processes to
imnprove planning. Implementation has been greatly facilitated by the development of policies and
guidelies as summarized in: (a) operational handbooks and guidelines for the operation of OFPIU,
including a policy handbook that has been updated twice during the project (see part III Table 3.6b);
(b) materials to assist fellowship candidates such as a promotion booklet for the fellowship program,
and pre-deparure orientation booklets on the countries of desdnation; and (c) internal and reports in
addition to semi-anmual reports submitted to the Bank to facilitate overall management of the project.
1.15      Selection of Fellows. Over the project period, significant improvement was made in
the recruient and selection process through which over 1300 candidates were selected out of more
than 20,000 applicants from aU over the country. Currently, selection is based on written academic
tests 'hat were developed under the project, and written tests of intellectual aptitude and academic
communication. Particularly noteworthy are: (a) Advertisemen, where extensive efforts were made
to publicize te program to high school graduates through use of media in all 27 provinces; (b) tim
Steering Comdtee consisting of representatives of LPNDs was responsible for both allocation of
fellows amng LPNDs and fields of study; (c) a System of Institutional Needs Assessme & developed
by the OFPIU.
1.16      P     b1cemwm. Fellows were successfully placed in over 300 higher education institutions
in 14 countries with assistance from nine Educational Exchange Organizations (EEOs). This is a
considerable achievement given (a) the general lack of experience of similar operations within the



- 5 -
contry; and (b) the diversity of educadonal systems penetraed. EEOs have been specily useful In
resolving inidal problems of placemet. Lessons leant from initial difficulties encounwtered by
felows in some programs in specific countries led the OFPIU to be more selective in plaement of
ler fellows.
1.17      RtAWXM  lai. The OFPIU developed three types of pre-departe traing
program: (a) lanage training; (b) pre-departure orientation; and (c) basic sciences for
undegrduate candidates. The different design of pre-departure language training was adopted
depending on language admission requirements of countries of destnation. The pr-deparue
orientation progran was also developed through extensive experimentation, and currently consists of
several seminar and orienttion sessions provided by the OFPIU, EEOs, and a consulting firm.
These collectively cover a wide range of topics to ensure effective placement, academic sucoe and
general well-being of fellows. Pre-departure booklets have been developed for each country
contaning essential informaion such as descriptions of educational systems, available programs,
financial systems, medical information, accommodations and re-entry matters. Since many
undergrduates experienced difficulties in the initia year, specal programs were developed to
provide undegraduate candidates pre-departre training in mathematics, physics and chemistry.
1.18      Monirnto and Evagon. Monitoring of fellows abroad was carried out through four
sets of activites: (a) each fellow was assigned to a student relation officer (SROs) who was
responsible for monitoring students' progress; (b) an Educational Exhange Orgation (EEO) in
each country was contracted to provide structured semiannual progress reports; (c) monitoring teams
were sent to each country twice a year; and (d) students were required to send stndardzed
qarterly reports. The seemnmgly elaborate set of monitoring activities proved to be essental in
identifying problems early enough to resolve them successfully. Ihis was particularly important,
since unlDi  other countries, there are only small numbers of Indonesian students abroad, and
ionfral support networks are generally lacking. With the development of OFPIU capacity in
monioring, EEOs' responsibilities became more limited in monitoring. In addition, u sInlg
tht placement and monitoring consdtuted important first steps for successful re-integration led to
more active participation by sponsoring LPNDs especially in monitoring trips. As the knowedge
base for foreign programs grows, it would be important to seek ways of reducing costs assodated
with monitoring through further review of the need for each monitoring actions and prioritization.
1.19      Ranmy. The re-entry section has focussed on two activites: (a) conducting routine
activities such as re-entry seminars and dissemination of semi-anmnal newsletters which later
developed into magazines for returning fellows to facilitate their re-integration; and (b) launching
peclal renty studies to measure fellowship impact. Re-entry seminars have generally been useftl
for reuning fellows in re-orientating them to a new environment. Newsletters have also evolved
from a simple form to one where returning fellows contrbute articles based on their thess. Writing
of these articles provided a professional activity for many returnees during the initial days where
their new jobs were being defined. Recognizing that re-orientation of returnees in the specific
envhiment of their own LPND was more important, activities such as laboratory visits to
reacquaint reuees with available facilities are begminng to be conducted in some LPNDs. During
the course of the PCR discussion, it was agreed to: (a) introduce a more strucured briefing on
current LPND activities; and (b) encourage reurnees to publih in professional journals.
1.20      A first re-entry study was conducted in 1988-89, based on a survey of retees and
sucred Itvew. The re-entry study led to many practical recommendations to facilite the
process of return  re-inegration. However, the report fell short of assessing the 'impact' of
fellowshios in tms of tanilble measures of wroductivhv. The first re-entry study also included a



- 6-
ques     re for spervisors, though small response rates made it difficult to reach condlusive
finding. Te lesons from this study guided the broader and more comprehensive re-entry study
tha was conducted at the end of the project, consisting of: (a) a tracer study of 225 rnees based
on a questie, in which many proxy productivity measures were introduced for Ohe first time to
ass the Impact of the fellow     program, including publications, presentations, promotions as
well as income; (b) detled reports from each of the LPNDs on reurnee contribution to insiutonal
perfoance tough discussion of insdtudonal objecdves, staff proftle, and case stdies; and (c) a
workshop where LPND repentatves presented their findings.
1.21      M1Tem  Review A detailed and comprehensive mid term review of te project was
caried out by a team of consultants in mid 1987. Following discussion with the Bank of the
findings, a detailed Action Plan was prepared and implemented. Under this Action Plan major
improvements were made in the following aspects of project implementation: (a) a new
organizationa structure was adopted for project implementation; (b) policies for selection, pre-
depae trafingt placement, monitoring, reportng, and finance were reviewed and subsently
summarized in a Policy Handbook; (c) standard operatng procedures for monitoring and evaluation
were developed and mamuals prepared; (d) the Fellowship Management Information System was
reviewed, and new systems developed; (e) an effective management reporting system was developed;
(f increased attention was given to fte re-entry procedures and stdies; and  ) recognizng th  the
science and techology context was not clearly defined or understood, a sub component to improve
the science and technology policy analysis and management was included in the PHRDP STAID
Component
1.22      Reporlj. The implementing agency was reqired to provide an anal report for the
flowsip program. Ihe acu  reporting far exceeded the expectations as detailed semi-amual
progress reports were submttd to the Bank. Ihese reports constted importa  inputs for Bank
review missions, and wer used actively by the implementing unit to monitor progress and to
coordinae actions between various units. While the coverage of these reports is generally
satisfactory, if spedfic indicators were developed during the project period, the preparation for the
PCR could have been simpler.
1.23      Localnjinig rgama. The local training progran, financed 100% by GOI, was not
desied in detail in the project preparation documents or the SAR. Its implementation was not te
reonsibilty of the OFPIU set up as the third component of the project, but the responsibility of
the education and training centers of the LPNDs. For this reason there was no central coordination
or monitoring of the domestic program, and data collection for the PCR preparation proved to be
more cumbersome than anticipated (see para iv, 1.32 for quantitative outcome).
1.24      Researc Allowance. Research allowances were provided to fellows while they were
overseas. However, only lhmited amounts were used for field work by fellows during the course of
their study and no research grmts were provided for reurning fellows. The latter was a result of
several factors: (a) limited needs expressed by fellows and relatively high costs assocated with field
work; (b) lack of a budgetary mechanism to administer small research grants; and (c) coneern over
shortage of fuids in the initial years and subsequent management decision to give priority to sending
fellows abroad, leaving the responsibility for supporting reuning fellows to normal budgetary
resouces of individual LPNDs.



VI. Pjet Maemel
1.25      Use of ]3dMW ExhagOrnizatong =1s. A dual approach in project
management was taken: (a) al the in-country work involving selection, and pre-depare taining
was managed by the project impl  ion unit (OPPI11), assisted by an Indonesian consulting
agency; (b) placement and monitoring work overseas was managed by an educational exchange
organization  (EOs) in each country. ihis management method represented a major shift away
from the previous practice of employing one foreign based agency to manage the whole fellowship
progran under earlier Bank projects, and explicitly made the provision for the development of
training nmagemen experdse within the OFPIU and a local consulting frm. While the quality of
services was found to vary from one EEO to another, their services were generally useful especially
during the initial phase of the project. It would be important to continue to review options for
transferng greatr responsibility for academic monitoring of students to LPNDs based on quarterly
reports completed by students. Such options would also be useful in reducing the need and costs of
hiring EEOs; and strengthening She relationships between LPNDs and foreign universities.
1.26      Administration of Stipend and Tuition Payments. Administering payments for tuiton
and quarterly sdpend payments to hundreds of students in over 10 countries proved to be more
complex than initially envisaged. After initial years of problems, the disbursement task in the
remaining five years was conacted to a consulting firm through five separate contracts. Though it
was not explicitly stated in the contract, interest payments were deposited to the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), as required by the Indonesian Law, and as in the case of normal special accounts.
Remice of money by the consulting firm, was not free of problem, though much better than
alternatives that were tried in the initial years, and improved over the project period. As a measure
of efficiency of the disbursement account (DBA), the total interest accrued was examined. Total
interest accrued and paid to the MOF indicates that the DBA operation compared favorably against
the normal special account practice. The review of the experience under the project indicates that
use of the DBA was an essential factor in ensuring timely delivery of stipend to students. However,
te future use of such accounts would need to pay greater attention to: (a) determining the level of
replenishment based on the expendiures incurred, balance of DBA, and the needs of funds in the
subsequent quarter; and (b) exemal auditing requirements for the DBA operations with its audit
opinion submitted to the Bank.
1.27      Oter Technical Assistance. In addition to EEOs, a disbursement contractor, and the
mid-term review, the project management was also supported by specific technical assistance for
finamcial administration, re-entry, monitoring and evaluation, and auditing. Except for the auditors,
all technical assistants were weli integrated into the structure of the OFPIU, and worked closely
together with counterpart teams in developing and operating financial management systems,
monitoring and evaluation systems and procedures, and providing constant feedback into the overall
management of the project.
VII. Project Financing
1.28      Total  ect Costs. The total project costs have been US$118 million consisting of
Loan financing of US$93 million and GOI contribution of 25 million. The Loan covered overseas
1./.      A detailed account of implementation experience on use of Educational
Excchange Organizations and a Disbursement Account is provided in a separate annex to the



-8-
fellowships (US$88 million), furniture and equipment (US$0.3 million) and technical assistance (4.6
million).
1.29      (Q  Contribudion. The GOI contributions totalled US$25 mniilion, constituting 21.2 %
of the total project costs, and 41.1% of the SAR targets in US dollar tenns. The much lower than
expected GOI contributions are attributed to several distinct factors. First, there has been a
devaluation of Rupiah which halved the value of the Rupiah against the US dollar. As shown in
table 3.Sc, when calculated in Rupiah terms, GOI contributions, which constituted all local costs,
constituted 61.2% of the SAR estimate including contingencies. Second, GOI contributions to local
training programs have been much lower than anticipated during appraisal, mainly because of the
stringent budgetary conditions during structural adjustment. Another area where GOI contributions
were much smaller than expected was family support for the participating fellows. This was largely
a result of a GOI decision subsequent to the SAR whereby a lower rate for family support was
mandated for all GOI financed fellowships. While there were some complaints from the fellows,
lower levels of family support does not appear to have had significant qualitative effects on
fellowship outcomes. Small research allowances for returning fellows were largely replaced by
small research allowance given to fellows while they were overseas. Though the total amount is
small, this could have been an important omission, given that small research allowance would have
permitted returning fellows to engage in immediate research activities including publication of their
heses results. As discussed earlier (para 1.24), this was largely owing to difficulty in budgeting for
individual research support. Fourth, GOI spending on project management was much lower than
expected. Lower resources for project management do not appear to have had negative effects on
the implementation performance, which was generally satisfactory.
1.30      Cost (un. The estimated cost overrun from the fellowships started under this
project is about USD 5.7 million. The main reason for the cost overrun arose primarily from longer
than anticipated duration for (a) PhD programs where 3.5 years were used for planning purposes,
(b) use of 5-year masters programs in continental Europe which combine bachelor and masters
studies into a single program, instead of conventional 2-year master programs. The resulting cost
overrun is being covered by the Professional Human Resources Development Project (PHRDP),
under a STAID component (para 1.12) through a transfer of 385 fellows.
VIII. Project Outcome
1.31      Project outcome can be measured through five sets of measures: (a) quantitative
coverage of fellowships; (b) success of fellows in completing the programs; (c) impact of returning
fellows on LPNDs; and (d) impact on collaborative relationships between LPNDs and domestic and
foreign universides. Since local training programs were managed by individual LPNDs and not
monitored with equal intensity, this section relates primarily to overseas fellowships. The first three
sets of measures provide preliminary indications on the project contribution to the first objective of
the project: developing a nucleus of scientific and technological manpower, though full project
impact may become measurable only in the long term. The fourth set of measures would be related
to the third project objective: develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between research
institutions, Indonesian and foreign universities. Sections V and VI provide project outcome for the
second objective, development of implementation capacity for the fellowship program.
(a)       Quaitative Coverage of Fellowships
1.32      Fellowship Covera. A total of 1560 fellowships were granted, of which 241 were
awarded for those successfully continuing for higher degrees (e.g. undergraduates proceeding to



-9-
masters programs). These comprised 223 PhDs (89.2% of the SAR target); 554 MScs and 306 five-
year master's degrees (132.3% of the SAR target); 259 BScs (86.3% of the SAR target); and 218
non-degree fellows (72.7% of the SAR target). The main differences from the SAR target arose
from: (a) difficulty in identifying candidates for PhD programs; (b) relatively large numbers of
fellows in the continental European programs which effectively combine undergraduate programs
with master's level training; and (c) difficulties especially during the initial years of identifying
appropriate non-degree industrial training programs. For local training programs, the SAR target of
50 PhDs was met, with a total of 52 fellows. The numbers of undergraduate and short-term training
programs far exceeded the SAR targets. Only about a quarter of the 750 MSc target was achieved.
Several factors appear to have been at work: (a) a reduction in the GOT budget between 1985 and
1989; (b) lack of suitable candidates; and (c) lack of suitable programs.
1.33      Country Destination of Fellows. Fellows were placed in 14 countries: USA, UK,
Cmaada, Australia, Germany, Holland, France, Japan, Thailand, Belgium, Austria, Philippines, New
Zealand and Norway, with the largest country concentrations in Japan, USA, Germany and Holland.
As discussed earlier, this was a very significant achievement. No other fellowship program in the
country has managed to cope with such diversity of destination. Diversification was an explicit and
important goal of the OFPIU, for strengthening links with many countries for future cooperation in
science and technology and industrial development. The OFPIU made determined efforts to achieve
this goal through effective rationing of fellows in the earlier years when the majority of fellows were
expressing interest in the USA. It is interesting to note that today, diversification no longer requires
special efforts by the OFPIU: fellows no longer need to be "convinced" to go to other countries.
This clearly demonstrates that lack of information, rather than any other academic barriers were the
cause of earlier tendency to concentrate in a handful of countries.
1.34      Source Agenci. The distribution of fellows among LPNDs were somewhat different
from the original plan with the exception of LAPAN. 49.6% of fellows were from BPPT as
conmpared with the SAR target of 35.9%, 18. 1% from LJPI as compared with 23.79% planned,
15.4% from BATAN rather than 21.1%, 3.7% from the BPS instead of 5.5%, and 1.9% from
BAKOSURTANAL instegd of 4.5 % representing only 40% of the SAR target. The reasons for the
change were: (a) difficulties in identifying candidates in some cases; (b) willingness of BPPT to
absorb much greater numbers of undergraduates in than the other LPNDs; (c) younger age profile of
BPPI staff which provided a greater pool of candidates under the GOI-imposed age limit of 35.
1.35      Fields of Study. The distribution of fellows in terms of fields of study is as shown in
Table 17 in Part U, with the detailed comparisons for each LPNDs provided in the Tables 18 A-F in
Part IT. Adjustments largely reflect: (a) the fact that fields of study identified during project
preparation were only "approximate" estimates for the institutions covered; (b) changing priorities
by the LPNDs themselves in developing their research and development programs; and (c) inability
of foreign fellows to enrol in some specific programs.
1.36      Associate Fellowships. Only eight participants were from outside of the LPNDs, as
compared with the SAR target of 75. They were from the three major universities. The main
obstacle in the associate fellowship program appears to be the logistics in agreeing with the source
agencies about the future participation of fellows in LPND research programs upon retrn. LPNDs
sought official letters from the source agencies (e.g. from rectors) that would endorse even informal
level participation of reuning fellows in their laboratory activities, as a safeguard against the abuse
of fellowships for non-agreed fields. Although it was not required that these fellows be 'fully-
seconded" to LPNDs upon return, most agencies were reluctant to promise any tangible association
between returning fellows and LPN]Ds. As a result, the use of associate fellowships were limited to



- 10-
the few laboratories which had already established stitutional linkages with specific deparem  of
universities.
1.37      Female Pancat. Overall, 13.9% of fellows were female, with the largest
concentration of female fellows coming from LIPI (20.6%). This appears to compare favorably
against the female rprsnaton, for instance, in BPPT, which is about 12% for all staff with
university degrees, though sex composition data for other LPNDs were not available.
(b)       Successful Completion of Fellowships
1.38      DuSion of Std. Most fellows were able to complete their studies within the period
envisaged, with some exceptions. The OFPIU responded with good judgement: it accommoded
individual needs for additional time in cases where of the planned duration urned out to be too low,
while imposing an absolute maximum mnmber of years for other programs.
1.39      Cgmpeo R=. Out of 1560 fellowships granted, 142 felows (excluding 7 cases of
incompletion owing to death and sickness) or 9.1% of fellows have returned without compledng the
programs as planed. The OFPIU has made concerted efforts in analyzig where and how these
problems arose. The results indicate that incompletion was concentrated in three particul
programs. Also, those unable to complete were concentraed in the first two batches of fellows.
The incompetion problems were greatly diminished in subsequent batches, primarily owing to
improved selection, placement and pre-departre training, and possibly because of younger age-
groups in later batches. Qualitative assessment of incompletion problems indicated that: (a) some
counties had specific problems of compatibility with the Indonesian education system; (b) cultural
adjustnent and language problems were greater in some countries than others; and (c) there were
inial weaknsses in selection, placement and pre-deparure training, which were addressed during
implementation. Completion rates are continuing to be monitored to identify the need for further
action, such as exclusion of programs with excessive problems. Lessons learnt from the earlier
batches have already led the OFPIU to exclude some programs from subsequent batches.
(C)       Impact of Felowships on LPNDs
1.40      Brain Drain. Out of 1321 fellows sent abroad and about 936 fellows conmleting their
studies, there have been only two cases of non-return to Indonesia, both of which resuled from
mariages. Ihe 99.8% return rate is much better than anticipated. There are about 385 students
who are continming to study abroad under a follow-up PHRD project (para 1.12). The monitoring
team is quite confident that the latter group would not represent any higher risk than those already
retrned in terms of their inclination to stay overseas. Several factors appear to contribute to this
extremely low brain drain. Frst, the absolute shortage of highly qualified manpower in Indonesia
still provides many higher profile career opportnities for ret     fellows. Second, there is a
strong sense of belonging both to the country and the LPNDs.
1.41     ftst-R=    artures Out of 936 students who have already retrned, only 19 or
2.3% have left LPNDs for other jobs in the country. Those people have been asked to pay for the
cost of fellowsips, in line with the fellowship policy, and for those who have not, legal procedures
have been initiated. Overall rates of post-return departr  are quitb Low with the hiest being
L1PI and BPPT at 3.9% and 2.7% respectively. Higher than others is the case of undergraduates in
BPPT with over 5% leavig upon return. All of these figures are still generally low. GOI is
enforcing policies of cost recovery from those who leave the public sector.



- 11 -
1.42      Erdutiity of Reumins FellQwg. According to the preliminay re-entry study
conpleted at the end of the project the following observations have been made regarding
producdvity of retuning fellowsl/:
(a)  Numbers of Projects Particatd. S3 returnees participated on average in 1.3 projects
per person, S2 returnees 1.2 projects as compared with 0.8 of those with short term
non-degree training.
(b) Numbers of Patents. S3 returnees obtained an average of 2 patents in comparison with
no patents for other groups.
(c)  Number of Academic Publications. S3 returnees published an average of 1.1 articles in
domestic journals and 0.6 articles in international journals, to be compared against 0.6
and 0.2 articles for S2 returnees, and none for the other.
1.43      While these generally indicate that the returnees exhibit high productivity, it was
recognized that the study cannot yet provide conclusive statements about returnee effectiveness,
given (a) the need for a longer time frame to monitor true project benefits; (b) difficulties in
establishing meaningful control groups; and (c) difficulties in obtaining accurate responses. The
OFPIU therefore plans to continue the study as a longiudinal tracer sudy over a period of 10 years
with improved questionnaires and selection of control groups. Results from less strucured returnee
interviews indicate that they are generally satisfied with their studies and resulting personal and
professional opporunities. However, there are indications for a need for improved working
conditions, such as reuneration and improved access to information resources such as up to date
journals and books. The need for better matching of their skills and career oppormities was
indicated through 30% of returees reportng mismatch of their skills with current jobs, and
inadequae research resources.
1.44      Im=act on LPND Performance. The LPNDs report that the return of highly qualified
staff from the Fellowship program is having a beneficial effect on their work. The improved profile
of staff qualifications, as shown in table 3.6a, has enabled the LPNDs to appoint well qualified staff
to senior structral positions, including planning and development responsibilities, and to functional
researcher and other posts where they are responsible for the development of new laboratories and
programs. However, the measurement of LPND performance in terms of concrete oututs was not
possible owing to a lack of baseline performance indicators. Given that the full impact of the
project is likely to become measurable only in the longer time frame, it would be important for the
OFPIU to begin monitoring LPND performance indicators together with the planed longitudinal
tracer study. The following are the main featres reported by the individual LPNDs.21
1.45      BAKOSURTANAL {National Coordinating Agency for Survey and M=pDingi Of the
thirteen successful degree training returnees, the three PhD and five of the seven MSc holders have
been placed in responsible management positions, as head of a research group or of a division or
sub division. All but one are satisfied with their assignments, although most complain about the
1/ Appendix 1: An Assessment of Performance and Impact of Reture.
2/ The findings of the LPNDs on the impact of the project on their performance,
including case studies of individual retunees and units or divisions, were reported at a
Workshop on May 12, 1993. Papers presented at the Workshop are compiled in Appendix
2: The mmact of OFP on the LPNDs.



- 12 -
excessive load of routine administration which restricts the amount of research they are able to do.
The LPND reports that the returnees have already made significant contribution to development in
the fields of remote sensing and GIS and more generally to assist the agency keep abreast of rapid
technological changes in survey and mapping. Inadequate salary is a concern. Returnees from
undergraduate programs have insufficient understanding of the work of the agency, this problem is
being addressed by the introduction of a familiarization program with a week spent in each main
section.
1.46      BATAN (National Atomic Energy Agency) The OFP was reported to have made a
strong contribution to the strengthening of the qualified staff of the Agency. BATAN is a large
agency with about 1280 staff with degrees. The OFP has contributed 25 of the 33 Ph D (75%) and
72 of the 97 MScs (74%) additional qualified staff since 1985. In addition, the program accounted
for over half of the specialist certificates gained in fields for which training is not available in
Indonesia, eg biomedical applications of radiation. One case study illustrated the positive outcome
of forward planning for employment of returned fellows: in the Center for Standardization and
Radiation Safety Research, four of the eight main divisions or units are headed by returnees, and
many of the research staff are returnees from the OFP. Publication by returnees is reported to be
higher than for staff not trained overseas. Returned fellows also contibute to the teaching of
nuclear studies in the domestic universities. Some of the returned fellows report dissatisfaction
becase of their employment in fields which do not directly match their specialist studies. Others
have been dissatisfied with the lack of opportnity to participate in policy /management decisions.
Most consider salaries to be inadequate.
1.47      BPS (Cental Burmau of Statistics) It is regarded as too early to evaluate the contribution
of OFP retumees to the work of BPS, however the 7 retrned PhD and 30 MSc holders represent
about 50% of the staff with these qualifications. Alnost all returnees, who were originally graduates
from the Bureau's Academy of Statistics, have received promotion in structural positions.
1.48        P    (Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology) The 366 returned
fellows contnbuted significntly to improving academic qualifications of staff: (a) 22% of
undergraduate degree holders (152 fellows); (b) 80% of masters degree holders (129 fellows); and
(c) 100% of PhD holders (26 fellows). The mandates of BPPT range over science and technology
policy, coordination, provision of services and conduct of research and development. Staff
participate in the work of other Government Departments and in industry, particularly the strategic
industries. Case studies indicate the positive impact of the project. A new Project Analysis Unit
has been set up under the STAID project, headed by an OFP PhD holder and wiffi 8 of the 16
professional staff being OFP returnees. This unit is charged with the very important responsibility
of reviewing and evaluating research proposals and projects to bring about more efficient allocation
of funding and other resources for R & D. The Laboratory for Ener=y Resources, which conducts
assessments, research and development in technology related to energy, employs 13 returned
fellows, who are reported to have contributed significantly in projects including: solar energy
applications, improved coal combustion and energy audit. Twenty four of the PhD holders occupy
structural positions with responsibilities for participating in science policy and planning, although it
may be still too early to see their full impact. It is recognized that there is need for introduction of
formal arrangements to orienbta returnees.
1.49      LAPAN (National Institute of Aeronautics and Spac) This institute needs specialist
staff for whom ta      is not availale in the domestic universities. The OFP programn has provided
40 of the 46 PhD and MSc holders in dte current taffing. Eight of the 12 research projects and
80% of the research groups in LAPAN are managed by retrnees. Instrumentation and test facilities



- 13-
required for aerospace research which cannot be purchased commercially have been developed by
the OFP reurees. The reurned graduates, particularly the MSc holders have also been very active
in seminars, lect    and In preparation of papers, reports and artices. Nineteen returnees hold
structural positions and the rest are in fimctional positions, mainly as researchers. Among case
studies, the Remote Sensing Applications Project has 14 OFP reunees in the team of 20 staff
developing the sstems for coliection and analysis of remote sensing satellite data: the Atmospheric
Chemistry Research Group has 13 returnee in the team of 18 graduate staff. LAPAN staff were
reported also to be involved in teaching in university programs.
1.50      I,IPI (lIdonesian InsJttte of Sciences) This Institute employed 108 PhD, 183 MSc and
1024 BSc holders, including 45 PhD, 70 MSc and 25 BSc holders returned from OFP. Twenty one
returnees currently occupy structural positions, but the majority are Researchers on the functional
scale. The assessment overall is that the program has made a very strong contribution to the
development of LlPrs work. A case study of the R & D Center for Geotechnology, where 6 of the
7 PhD holders are returned fellows, illustrates their influence in building up the resources and
program of work of the laboratory, with the budget growing from Rp 0.29 Billion in 1989 to Rp 3.3
Billion in 1993. The case studies also show the benefit obtained where an employee is placed
overseas in postgraduate study in the specialist topic in which he or she is to be employed on return.
(d)       Coflaborative Relaionships between LPNDs and Indonesian and Foreign
Universities.
1.51      It is difficult to draw a direct linkage between the project and collaborative relationships
that curreny exist between LPNDs and Indonesian and foreign universities, given that: (a) there
were no explicit mechanisms to monitor and evaluate project outcome from the local training
program; (b) the associate fellowship program had some practical difficulties in implementation; and
(c) no baseline data was established for comparison for collaborative relationships. However, a
number of collaborative relationships are reported to have resulted from the direct and indirect
interventions of the OFPIU. Most of the direct interventions in domestic universities resulted from
the follow-up STAID program based on the knowledge base built during the project: (a) a Link
program with a foreign university; (b) a new masters program in collaboration with BATAN; (c) a
special S1 program for BPS staff. There are many cases of other fonnal and informal collaborative
relationships in joint research and training.
IX SosWaabiliq
1.52      Sustainability of the project can be discussed from two perspectives. First, questions
can be asked about the domestic educational capacity to meet the future S&T manpower needs, since
the ulimate goal of the project was to support the short-term investment needs in S&T human
resources through overseas fellowships as a complement to higher education investments. Second,
questions can be asked about whether systems are in place to ensure "retums" on investment in
terms of productivity of returnees.
1.53        omesc Education Cngiy. While considerable progress has been made in
improving the domesdc higher education system, it is still true that the bulk of training needs
supported by the project cannot be met by the domestic system, both quantitatively and qualitatively.
The total enrollments in S2 and S3 were only about 9000 in 1990, of which only about 5% was for
engineering fields. It appears that in spite of several Bank projects, investment in graduate
education has not been adequate to meet the country's needs, and qualitative improvement of the
svstetm r e-lhirpq a mnuih innoer timA honrtzn than initiallv envkna@e



- 14 -
1.54      R Ytry Conditions to Ensu  ProducivitZ of Retunees. In most cases, returnes have
sayed in the beneficiary ntitutions, in spite of low levels of remuneration. One factor in the low
urnver may have been secondary jobs, a practice quite common in Indonesian civil service,
through which reurnees could quite easily earn secondary incomes. It would be increasingly
Important to address the issue of adequacy of remuneradon for these highly trai   huma
resources, in order to maximze productivity and outputs within the public sector commensurate with
the level of invesments made. The recent introduction of a new research financing system, together
wh increasingly demanding qualitative requirements for research proposals to be funded under
normal GOI budgets is likely to provide a better environment for encouraging greater productivity
by returnees, There has been some anecdotal evidence that indicate: (a) the need for better
matng between reurning fellows and exisdng facilities; and (b) the need for increased facilities
and research resources to promote higher research productivity. It is expected that on-going studies
on the Center for Scientific and Technological Research (Puspitek) and re-entry conditions will
conttem to better understanding on the adequacy of facilities.
X. Bank Performance
1.55      Overall performance of the Bank staff in preparation, appraisal and supervision of this
project has been satisfactory. 'he Bank has spent a total of 116 staff-weeks, 46 of which were
spent for supervision of tue project implementationl/. The implementing agency reported that
itroducing a system of a single task manager was helpful in bringing together the discussion of
finncial and substantive issues. A small survey conducted by the implementing agency on Bank
performance and subsequent discussions indicate the following.
1.56      Supervision Missions. The implementing agency indicated that inputs of the Bank both
withn and outside of review missions have been useful and important contbutions throughout the
implemenaton period. Much of the supervision activities after 1990 in the field was carried out as
part of supervision missions for the follow-up Professional Human Resources Development Project.
This mechanism (a) reduced the implementing agency's burden of reporting to separate missions;
and (b) facilitated translation of lessons learnt from one project to actions in another. The practice
of issuing a single Aide-Memoires in the context of the follow-up project was also deemed efficient
and satisfactory.
1.57      Procedural Reuiment. Bank's procedural requirements, superimposed upon GOI's
mw requirements presented some difficulties in processing of contracts and withdrawal applications,
especially given the long project period with procedural and personnel changes on both sides. While
RSI assistance bas been appreciated in this respect, fi-ther consideration needs to be given to: (a)
periodic trainin sessions to address the problems of personnel and procedural changes on both
sides, and (b) regular attendance of representatives from RSI in mission discussions, which would
have facilitatd their role in trouble shooting.
1.58       QmULnAarb MM  Hiff  Ed=%to Proj=. It was agreed Xh close lins with
the higher education sector would have been necessary in ensuring true complementarity of the
projects, but it was also recognized that given the reality of compartmnentalization, it was extremely
difficult for the implementing agency to have bridged the gap. The Bank preparation missions for
Inchuding a portion of thne spent by the review missions for the follow-up Professional
Human Resources Development Project, which also served as review missions of this



- 15 -
the follow-up PHRI} project attempted to bridge the gap through engaging in deied discussions
with the Ministry of Education. It would have been useful if the Bank review missions could have
susied te bridging efforts, although this is not likely to have been a panacea.
Xl. Borrow-er Berforanc
1.59      The implementing agency constantly exhibiod strong commitment to perform,
willingness to improve and respond to perceived weakesses, and inwvativeness to undertake
difficult tasks. The manner in which the mid-term review was conducted and its recommendations
translated into a set of actions, demonstrates well their commitment to recognize problems, and to
address them swifty through complicated sets of action plans. It has far exceeded Bank
expectations in terms of reporting requirements, as detailed bi-amual reports were provided (para
1.22). The concerted efforts made on re-entry studies at the end of the project was another case
where the implementing agency demonstrated its ability to respond quickly to address a complicated
set of issues.
XI. Lessons SAmrt and Future l)irections
(a)       Design Issues
1.60      Review of S&T Manower Demand. Since the overseas fellowships were to be used to
provide a short term solution to the supply constraints of the domestic education, it would have been
useful to review more carefully the nature of the supply-demand gap for graduate education.
Qualitative and quaniative discussions of demand for high-level scientific and technological
manpower from higher education institutions, other public research institutions, and private
emloyers would have been helpful in determining and jusdfying the scale and coverage of the
overseas fellowship program for meeting the needs of the country.
1.61      Higler Education Development Strategy. The need for overseas fellowships would
need to be reviewed conti ly in light of a broader higher education development strategy. While
weaknesses of the domestic university capacity would continue to require overseas fellowships as a
short-term measure, it would be increasingly important to instiute mechanisms that enhance
consistency and prioritization in awarding fellowships to specific candidates or institutions.
1.62       nsitutional Coverage. The six LPNDs supported under the project do not constite an
exclusive group of research institutes of importance for the country. Even outside of the university
sector, which is another set of insttions that requires future attention for research capacity
building, departmental research institutes under the departments of Agriculture, HEalh ad Industry
have important roles to play. Any future srategy would need to be reviewed in light of S&T and
research priorities for economic development needs of the country, and mehanisms or manner in
which specific S&T manpower development would bring about benefits to the economy.
1.63      Public Role in R&D and Strategy for Research Capacit Building. More broadly, the
public role in applied R&D, and the impact of such R&D upon industrialization appears to have
been assmed. It is increasingly important to re-examine the public role in R&D in an environment
of private-sector-led industriazation.
1.64      Monitorini and Evaluation ndicators. Though the project repordng has been generally
satisfactory, little attention had been paid to establishing monitoring and evaluation indicators until
the preparation of the PCR was iiiated. Project inplementation as well as review would have been



- 16-
greaty facilitated, if, at the outset: (a) a set of specific monitoring and evaluation indicators were
established; (b) a baseline performance data wer established. The project experience indicat the
importance of the following types of indicators:
(a) Monitoring Indicators for Implementation. Key figures such as overseas fellowships,
associate fellowships as well as local fellowships, established at the outset could have
continuously placed the needed focus on components of particular importance
throughout the lifetime of the project.
(b) Returnee Perfornance Indicators for Evaluation. Productivity measures related to
individual returnees.
(c)  LPND Output Performance Indicators for Evaluation. Objective baseline data on
collaborative relationships between LPNDs and the other research institutions or
universities, as well as general research outputs in terms of numbers of publications,
contracts, patents, would have helped in demonstrating improvement in concrete terms.
1.65      It would also be important for performance monitoring both for individual returnses and
LPNDs to be continued beyond the project period, as planned by the OFPIU, in order to measure
long-term returns to investment.
(b)       Implementation Issues
1.66      Administration of Fellowshig Program. The most important lesson to be learnt from
the project is that it proved to be possible to develop an internal capacity to administer a ve-y
complicated fellowship program with specific inputs from the domestic and foreign technical
assistnts. Specific lessons include:
(a) Use of EE has been important especially during the initial phase of the project.
There has been concerted efforts on the part of the OFPIU to their inputs to a more
specified and narrowly defined function as OFPIU developed internal capacity to cope
with many of the issues. Conversely, constant re-assessment of their role has been an
important factor in the development of internal capacity.
(b)  Centralizadon vs. Decentralization of Mnitorng Responsibilities. In the initial years,
the economy of scale and lack of knowledge base in LPNDs necessitated monitoring
activities to be heavily centralized at the OFPIU. Later, it has become possible to
decentralize some of monitoring responsiblitites to LPNDs.
(c)  Use of Disbursement Accounts has been an essential factor in managig the difficult
task of delivering stipend payments to hundreds of students in over 10 countries. Ihe
early experience of self-management indicates that design of a disbursement system that
can put students overseas at risk must be undertaken with extreme care.
1.67         nk Supervision The following could facilitate implementation: (a) organizing specific
trainng sessions on procedural issues; (b) including RSI members in supervision missions; and (c)
using reviewn missions to bridge the gap between projects wifth important complementarity.



- 17 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
L     INTRODUCTION
a.    Background
The Overseas Fellowship Program (OFP), started in 1985, is an education program that was
planned and executed by the Government of Indonesia (GOI). The aim of the program was to
provide employees of six non-departmental research and/or technology organizations (Lembaga
Pemerintah Non Departemen or LPNDs) the opportunity to study or receive overseas training to
enhance the research and technology capabilities of the organizations involved. Organizations
associated with the program included:
*     BATAN (National Atomic Energy Agency)
*     BAKOSURTANAL (National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping)
=     BPS (Central Bureau for Statistics)
*     BPP Teknologi (Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology)
e     LAPAN (National Institute for Aeronautics and Space)
-     UIPI (Indonesia Institute of Sciences)
Operational responsibility for program execution rested with the Office of the Minister of State
for Research and Technology. Management of the program was undertaken by a steering
committee comprised of members of the above agencies. In all day-to-day activities, the steering
committee was assisted by the OPF Implementation Unit (OFPIU) and by special units set up in
each agency. Funding for the program came from the GO1s Development Budget, with the
majority of off-shore cost financed by a loan between the GOI and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD, or World Bank).
The primary objectives of the Overseas Fellowship Program (OFP) were:
I.    To strengthen the R&D capacity of the participating agencies
11.   To develop effective policies and procedures for implementation and monitoring of
overseas fellowship programs
III.   To develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between Indonesian and foreign
universities and research institutes.
b.    Goal of the Program Completion Report (PCR)
It is the aim of this report to evaluate to what degree the major goals of the OFP that were
identified in the World Banks Staff Appraisal Report have been attained in relation to the major
objectives listed above. While the fulfillment of the overall objectives is discussed in detail in
the main body of the report a separate appendix, The Overseas Fellowship Program Results: An
Assessment of Perfonnance and Impact of Retumees is also included which is a comprehensive
study of the OFP returnees performance. (See Appendix 1).



- 18 -
IL STRENGTHENING R & D CAPACITY
When measured against the ofiginal program objectives the OFP has been an overwhelming
success.
The first objective, "to strengthen and develop the R&D capacity of the participating agencies
"has been met. The LPNDs have been greatly strengthened by the increased number of
ernployees holding undergraduate and graduate degrees in much needed areas of science and
technology. The experience of studying abroad has also strengthened the capacity of the
participating agencies. By studying in foreign countries a tucleus of well trained scientists
within these agencies has been produced who have new knowledges and skills, who have been
exposed to different ways of hinking and working. Problem solving capabilities, increased
independent thinking, taking more initiative and better organizational skills are just a few of the
intangible assets which the OFP returnees have brought with them.
a.    Impact of the OFP on Science and Technology
o S & T Expenditures
One measure that indicates improvement in research environment and conditions since the OFP
is steady increases in S & T budgets and expenditures. The assumption being that the greater the
amount spent on S & T the better the working conditions and environments in terms of:
facilities; equipment; number of R & D projects; availability of staff training programs;
promotion of S & T in the general community; and funds for related activities such as
conferences or seminars.
All GOI institutions and agencies are allocated funds through two channels:
1. DIK (routine budget) which allocates funds for routine and recurrent expenses for basic
operations such as salaries, building maintenance and office supplies.
2. DIP (government development budget) is the major channel for funds from the GOI. DIP
allocates funds for development activities such as equipment procurement, facilities
construction, projects, and other activities related to development.
The following provides a brief analysis of DIK and DIP expenditures for the fiscal years(FY)
1989/90 through 1992193 compared with the estimated expenditures at the time of the World
Bank, Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the OFP in FY 1984/85.
A more detailed analysis is provided in Appendix 1 of the Program Completion Report.
Table 1 shows the DIK and DIP budget allocations for each LPND for FY 1984/85 as given in
the SAR.
TABLE 1
DIP & DIK (WB - SAR)
(in millon of Rupiah)
[             || ELM=        BATAIN I  Fsr |BPS                           7859IPI
DIP       2| 973 1l15,326|  7,2S55|   610|    ,8  |815|    54,837 |
DIX            S43    3,045    6,600 17,749     1,045    4,77         23,754 l
Towd    ll   3,16 ll1,7|1,S               23,849    6,3   12x967      7,11



- 19 -
The defator used for FY 1989/90 and 1990/91 was taken from the 1992 International Financial
Statistics Yearbijok from the section on Indonesi on pages 408.412 and was based on a 1985
value of 100.
o DIK
Table 2 provides the DIK allocation for each LPND for FY 1989/90 to FY 1992/93. As the two
notes below indicate accurate information for BATAN and BPS was not available at this time
and estimations were used to ascertain a rough idea of total DIK allocations for the LPNDs. The
Reentry Section in cooperation with the Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) is in the process of
gathering and analyzing additional data regarding DIK allocations.
TABLE 2
LPNDs DIK
(in million of Rupiah)
v PND        89190          90/91       91N/2            92193        93/94
LPD                                          _ _   __LIZ
SAT3
BAKOS    I   1,157           1,409         1,905          2,169         NA
BATAN        16,500 Est *    19,000 Est. *    22,500 ESL *    28,500 ESt*    NA
BPPT        16,062         24,151        26,741         30,260         NA
BPS         10,500 EsL *    12,400 Est *    14,600 Est *    17,200 ESL
LAPAN_            2,613          3,368         4,888          4,071      | N.A]
LIPI         9,847        10,697         13,468         15,419        NA
r   Total        4 ,679         71,025       '84,102         97,619        NA
Defated      41,493      1=47,287         NA             NNA
* NOTE-BATAN:
The figures for BATAN were drawn from data displayed as a graph making these
figures rounded approximations.
NOTE-BPS
DIK budget figures for BPS were not available. The BPS DIK budget figures are
estimations that were derived by calculating the average percent of increase for all
LPNDs between FY 1984/85 and FY 1989/90 and using the average percent increase
(135%io) times the BPS 1984/85 DIK of 7.749 to establish an approximation of the BPS
1989/90 DIK. The BPS DIK for the following fiscal years was derived by calculating the
average percent of increase per year for all LPNDs and applying that percent (18%o) to
the BPS DIP for each year given.
Given the estimations in Table 2, a comparison between the DIK figures for FY 1984/85 in the
World Bank SAR and FY 1989/90 deflated figure show that the DIK during that period rose by
75% in real terms. For FY 1990/91, the DIK shows a 14% real increase.
Using the undeflated figures, Table 2 shows increases of 18% and 16% respectively for FY
1991/92 and FY 1992/93.
Table 2. also shows that the undeflated budget allocation for the individuals LPNDs has risen
between 70% and 90% during the period 1989 to 1993 and between 300 and 500% since the
SA.



- 20 -
DIP
Table 3 provides the DIP budgets for each LPND for the fiscal years 1989 thlrough 1993.
TABLE 3
LPNID DIP BUDGET (IN MILLION OF RUPLAW
t   11 ~~~~~~~ r       |        =                11 ~~~~~~~~93/94 
LPND          89/90        90/91    1   91l92 l1  9293             SAT3
BAKOS              9,541        13,512      20,247        25,320       22,450
BATAN             44,060       35,083       32,754        35,383       39,836
BPvr               23,130      32,254        37,403       39,787       51,892
BPS                10,131       11,182       14,793       NA.           5,090
LAPAN              2,756        4,702        10,189       13,854       17,020
LIPI               6,158        11,910       23,749       40,088       52,159
TOTAL .        95,776      108,643  I   139,1S       Z154,432 LJ    188,447
|DEFIATE    1   70,114  || 7,3    | NA               || N|| N
Based on the deflated figures for 1989/90, the DIP shows a real increase of 28% since the World
Bank SAR. For 1990/91, the deflated figures show an increase of 3%
An examination of the total undeflated figures in Table 3 show that the total budget for all the
LPNDs has risen by 61% from 1989/90 to 1992193 with respective increases of 13% in 1990/91,
28% in 1991/92, and 11% in 1992/93. However, the 1992/93 figure for the BPS DIP are not
available. Based on the SAT3 (BAPPENAS budget ceiling) and an analysis of budget ceiling to
approved DIP, the BPS DIP for 1992/93 can be estimated at 6.000. This would increasethe rise
in total budget for all the LPNDs for the time period 1989 - 1993 to approximately 67% with a
corresponding rise in the 1992/93 fiscal year to approximately 15%. The undeflated realization
of the DIP for all LPNDs was Rp. 91.779 in 1989/90 and Rp. 104.333 in 1990/91 fiscal years or
96% for both years.
It may be concluded that based on the analysis of DIK and DIP budget allocations for the OFP
period, the GOI has followed a policy of continued increasing funding for S & T activities which
has lead to a continued improvement in the environments and conditions to which OFP fellows
return.
b. Impact of the OFP on the LPNDs
The OFP has greatly contributed to the development of a nucleus of well-trained Indonesian
scientific and technical manpower at each of the LPNDs. Through OFP, the development of this
nucleus was focused on increasing in relative and absolute terms the number of degree holders at
the graduate level. As stated in the OFP Proposal in 1984: Given the role the LPNDs are
expected to play in Indonesia's development, it is clear that the LPNDs require a higlier
percentage of staff with graduate level qualifications. Therefore, in this section, comparisons are
made between the technical staffing by degree level as it was given in the OFP Proposal, August



- 21 -
1984 and the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, July 1985 and the current technical staffing
level by degree as of December 1992 for each LPND.
Ihe abbreviations used in the following are: WB-SAR, World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report;
MP, December 1992 Reentry Manpower Survey; PKS, Purnakarya Siswa (returnees); STM,
Sekolah Teknik Menegah (Technical High School graduates); and S-O, Technical College
Certificate holders, S-1 Bachelors degree holder, S-2 Masters degree, S-3 Doctoral degree holder
and AQ Academic Qualification.
TABLE 4
ACCUMULATIVE TOTAL MANPOWER CHANGES
I              ~~~~TECH.
IS-4                   S-3      MAN
____________ .______ - SI'M   S_  (BSC_ )    (MSc)    (Ph.D.    POWER_AQ
rIM____ _S__                                    'D)   POWER         AQ
19c5       1986      1525      2126      159       73       5        66.2 %
WBSAR __ _                                             _ _
1992    13061  }  2006         4655      623   f  213   [   10558j  70 ____
%.     b 54 %      31.5 %    219 %     392%      292 %    TOTAL
~~~  I                      T ~~~~~PK.S
QHANG     __.I _                       _     __       _     OE;P    _
OFP          0          174    217       340          1121  843       C.FP  1
I                                           i          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INPUT
.   .. .                        l         |         | ~~~~~~% AQ|
:          I:        I                             l        f         } CHANG J
I . . %      f  0%    ISee          8.6% 173.3%         80%             J225 %
|.iNPUT    ||Nofte                               
1 O IP                Belowllllll
NOTE - Training Certificate Holders: Under OFP 174 participants received training certificates. All the
training certificate holdes have an S-1 or higher degree and the certificates they obtained overseas werc in specific
areas of technology relevant to the needs of their respective LPND. Tley represent a unique group with skills
previously unavailable in the LPNDs. They were induded In the category S-0 or TR for purposes of simplifying the
table.
Table 4 provides the total change to the staff of the LPNDs as a group from the beginning of the
OFP in 1985 through December 1992.  Breakdowns for staffing change by academic
qualifications for the individual LPNDs are provide in Appendix 1 to the Program Completion
ReporL
As shown in Table 4, during this time period, each of the LPNDs have grown and expanded. In
total, the total technical manpower at the LPNDs has increased by 87% with the number holding
academic qualifications increasing from 66.2% of the total to 71%. However the most notable
change is the growth in staff holding S-2 and S-3 degrees which have increased by 392% and
292% at the respective levels. At these two degree levels, the inputs from OFP has been a 73.3%
contribution to the increase in S-2 degree holders and a 80% contribution to the increase in S-3
degree holders. While not as dramatic, the OFP has also made a sizeable contribution to holders
of S-1 degrees.
OFP has made a significant contribution to the changes in academic qualifications at the LPND
particularly at the graduate level. It seems clear based on the data that through OFP the LPNDs



- 22 -
are strengthening the countries research and development capacity by developing a nucleus of
well-trained Indonesian sciettific and technical manpower. As indicated in the examination of
the individual LPNDs, this research and development capacity is continuing to evolve and is
being strengthen further through SIMDP and STAID, as well as other forms of grants and aid
and a growing contribution particularly on the S-1 level from Indonesian universities.
o Departures after program completion
From the beginning, BPPT recognized that the possibility existed that fellows who completed
OFP programs may consider departing from their LPND because their new degree(s) would be
of value in the private sector or elsewhere. To limit the possibility of departures after program
completion, two constraining requirements were developed:
1.  All fellows before acceptance in a degree were required to sign acontract requiring
two years of work plus one for each year of study overseas. For example, a fellow
that studies overseas for five years would be under contract for 11 years of work after
completion of the program.
2. Any fellows who wanted to break this contract would have to pay in full the cost of
their study overseas before being allowed to depart from their LPND.
In January 1993, the Reentry Section of the OFPIU carried out a survey to determine if there was
a loss occurring due to returnees leaving their LPNDs after the completion of an OFP degree
program. The survey requested the LPNDs to determine the number of returnees who had left as
well as the reasons for their departure; job in private sector, personal reasons; health reasons;
death. Table S (below), shows the overall results of this survey by degree level at each LPND.
TABLE 5
PROGRAM DEPARTURES
LPND          TOWl        S-3       S-2   | S-1         TR         9
a II n e              OM)  I(BSc)                    Less
BAKOSe              14         O         O         O         O     o %
BATAN              137         1         o         O         1 {r1.46%
T    ll      ~~~3661     01        21        81        l   2.73% I
BPS     1143 1               0 11      0 11       .11       11    
WPAN      11131                0         1            El0          0.76 %
LlPI     11  -   152         2         2         0         2    3.94%
l    Total    ll  843 ||      3 ||      5 ||      8 ||      3 ||2.25%    I
As shown in Table 5, the overall loss for program departures for returnees from OFP is 2.25%.
By degree level the loss is as follows: S-3 (PhD) 3 out of 112 retumees or 2.67%, S-2 (MSc) S
out of 340 or 1.47%, S-1 (BSc) 8 out of 217 or 3.68%6, and training 3 out of 174 or 1.72%o.
Based on the response to the survey, the loss as per reason given is:
Job in private sector    PhD = 2; MSc. = 3; BSc. = 6; TR = 2
Personal Reasons     PhD = 1; MSc. = 2; BSc. = 2; TR = 1



- 23 -
As indicated by the data, OFP at the present time does not suffer from significant loss due to
returnees departing after completion of an OFP degree program.
As a point of Interest, the "brain drain" or Individuals who stayed In the country of study
after completion of a degree has been two Individuals out of 1017 degrees awarded which
gives the OFP a 'brain drain" of less than one fifth of one percent
o Impact of OFP on the Individual LPNDs
To gage and assess the impact of the OFP on the individual LPNDs, the Reentry Section, FPIU
organized a series of three workshops in April and May, 1993. The final workshop on May 12,
1993 was attended by personnel from the World Bank. At the final workshop representatives of
the LPNDs presented reports demonstrating the impact of OFP on their organization and work
units. The reports were based on a Terms of Reference developed by the Reentry Section and
covering: background and history of the LPND; mission and goals, fields of study of returnees,
case studies of retumee activities in specific units or directorates, and an overall assessment of
the effect of OFP. on the institution. The reports for each LPND were organized and written by a
three person team consisting of a senior technical official, an S-3 retumee, abd the LPND FPIU
coordinator.
The full text of the presentation and report from each LPND is contained in Appendix 1 of the
Program Completion Report. The following provides a brief summary of the opinions expressed
in the reports and presentations.
The general conclusion by all LPNDs was that the science and engineering skills and knowledge
of returnees are making sigaificant contributions in the capability of the LPNDs to carry out their
roles and activities including planning, management of staff, transfer of technology, and
implementing research projects.
The LPNDs credit the returnees with increasing the motivation of other staff, increasing the
number and quality of domestic and international publicadons, decreasing the number of foreign
consultants required, increasing the capability of the LPNDs to carry out complex projects, and
increasing the generation, dissemination and application of S & T information.
Based on an assessment of issues and problems faced by returnees, the recommendations made
by the LPNDs to assist retumees in readapting and reintegrating in the workplace include:
o membership in international professional associations so that they can maintain and
replenish their skills and knowledge
o develop programs that provide S-1 returnees with additional guidance
o  provide better systems of coordination and communication between FPIU, supervisors and
fellows so that fellows and supervisors are aware of each others activities and needs
o develop reorientation programs that involve not on!y returnees but directors, divisional
heads and group leaders
o develop better institutional systems to place the right returnee in the right job



- 24 -
o develop cooperative ptograms in research and development that involve multiple institutionLs
both
While the previous secton has shown the Impact of the OFP on the R&D capacity of thle
participating agencies, the following sections provide a 'snapshot" of OFP fellowshilp
targets as envisioned In the original program design In the SAR as well as completion rates,
time utilized for completing each program, distribution of fellowships, and fields of study.
c.    Fellowship Status
o     The original fellowship target of 1500 fellowships was exceeded with the final number of
fellowshiips utilized being 1560 (See Table 6A).
O     A total of 1321 fellows utilized fellowships abroad (See Tables 6A, 6B and 7).
O     A total of 936 OFP fellows have returned to Indonesia (See Table 6A).
O     The number of fellowships utilized as compared to the original targets either exceeded
the original target or was very close to it with the exception of program 4A,
industria?/research training (See Table 6A).
9     The percentage of industrial training participants (Program 4A) was very low in
comparison to the original target. This was in large part due to a lack of knowledge
about what was available in this area (See Table 6A).
o     Of the 1321 OFP fellows sent abroad, 385 were still studying abroad at OFP completion
in their original program and financed under the STAID project (loan 3194). (See Tables
8A and 8B).
O     Two LPNDs exceeded their original targets while three other LPNDs attained between
63% and 71% of thir original target. Only one LPND achieved less than 50% of its
original target. (See Table 6C.
O     Only eight participants were from outside the LPNJDs. These eight participants were
from the University of Gajah Mada (5), Bandung Institute of Technology (1), and the
University of Indonesia (2). It was originally hoped that more associate fellowships
would be provided through OFP, however with the budget crunch in 1987 it was decided
to delay the inclusion of more associate fellowships. Later, such fellowships were
Included as part of the STAID program.
O     Of the 1321 OFP fellows, 239 have continued on to a higher degree under the STAID
program (See Table 8A, 8B and 8C).



- 25 -
TABLE  6A
ORIGINAL TARGEIS COMPARED TO TOTAL FELLOWSHIPS UIIXZED
Nmbcrat                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~TinusftA0UI
MaU_   Ti t   MaDbp                              DM
Nlt4     De,l    upw          Camded            1Nd
otYegei CGEIb  Sd*dI.2                      '         C           KMD.gm                Sdeg
AimS      t mlea d  AV Dt La   __ _ __ _  _    _  __  _  _
ho  Penitis   *>    Agimm      -          So .             So.   -               -                 -          Tg.I
E=  4X O7 4S lC D.S IU I  tCloo  v@ilSa                                                cow  IW       Wh
No.  aoo    Adm   imamI  Deem                  Deg       IDepk | ddIt MlXl!lCI I                           m!L Wb
32          a                           4-         -                      -
28   DW11l.             13 Iga          22   sm                                               -           30
h.,w     sit .      II_           L..Z..L...J      I.....L.!J         __   _      __               ___
4E SC                                   L1[ lohsbw  3  ISO                        6                            i ds
AS  mdI&hla.          43           1                                                                     0
Ish1  1123ef                              HHH I  LEH                                      H                       I
i  TO TAL                         ong              In                          So 122    2    2     2    2
'A total of 936 fellows hav returmed to lidoumla
'  Some ofthe progam 4Aand 4B fllowships aalso induded a proam Z Afistdse feliowahips beause progm 4Aad4Ba
non deec progmas. S uy some of the fellowships  ed I as l deSree a a  lead s scond degee flowshps If they contaue to
a higher. la a few cases fellows who staud In a hig  degree pgram but did aot cWplet the progm awe lsed in a non degree
ptogramL



- 26 -
TABLE 6 B
ORIGINAL FELLOWSHIP TARGETS COMPARED TO TOTAL FELLOWS
BY HIGHEST DEGRE ATTNAD
Target
Maiumum    Type of     Numb"r of       Compbect For OFP Progrtatn       [complcte
Number    Dcgrecl    Fellowships   __.___for OFP Program
of Years   Cerfficate   as per                                      r(Tranzfced Urdn.
Abroad    Planned     Schedule 2       Pass            Fall             STAID)           Total
Pto- PrFmited    to be       of Loa                                                           Fellows
gramn  by the    Obtained   Agreement      is    cond   First  Second                 [till |   r OUP
No.    GOt      Abroad    Loan 2599-IND  Dg    Degrec  DLgree  Degre   Pa       Fail |        Program
3 yea   [Dr; pb.D.;      250   ||32  163                 [1t]   25L3             82       223
LJ   Drlr. !-       -     -                                            L=! -          !
2     2A    MSc.;a DEA-        650       251     23      62      10      10            3       395 
2.5 years  DESS;
2B    Dipl.lng.;                    7 ?           32      -       24      7    229       299
___  S years  kr Equiv.    __                                                                        !
1311!  !y!r Ia1   -t I  i...IL .81-ll  13t If  -                                  11t5|   223|
B=U   1          300       167      n       lll C                    n
4     4A    InodustdaV         300       152      -       3      -        6     .161
15years  Rescatch
Training
11__ liCerificate
L4B    Acad.Trainl.                   13       1                      I 1                    t 2
IS .5years |Certificat ||_!_1_-__-_-
TOTIAL 11 1Z IL 11                                 L[                                         I
Note  'hedifference li the tots In ables lAand 1B is due to Oe fact thatTable A is fe#owhips and Table IB is fellows.
TABLE 6C
BREAKDOWN OF LPND TARGlTS AND COMPLETIONS
TOTAL
SAR                 FELLOWSWIPS
|FELLOWS}               COMPLETED OR               % OF TARGET
LPNDs                   TARGETS               SlILL STUDYING              COMPLETED
![BAKOS    .                  68          J       I28 I I                      41.18%
BATAN                        316          L-221                   Jl           69.94%
BPPT           139                                   709                     131.54%
BPS                         82                        52                      63.41%
.1gZJ=2LAPAN             1           140                        jU149    j             106.43%
UN1l 356                                 1l 252                               70.79%
[        TOTAL            11                                   1411                      94.00%



- 27 -
TABLE 7A
BREAKDOWN OF FELLOWS AND FELDWSHIPS UlIZED IN EACH PROGRAM
AND PERCENTAGE OF FELLOWS IN EACH COUNTRY
I.. I   FELLOWSHIlS       I      i         FELLOWS           jW   PER-J
COUNTRY_       2A |.    32B | 1                           34A |j j 1 |  411   C
1]6USA''   1i 40 1221   1 501             23i1I  40  911  0 1 48 1OIrf               1
14   3               JI  F   fl 22j' 14 J  o j  510    J1<il 15.4
2 i         |421 103 |   | 261 | | 5 |1111  42 1   671  0 1  26   01 |         13.81
1 41            4 1    79j3f[s 1131 91   01           0  L[o 1f  10.8%
3III n;llIII  2 5  41      7)  I    1 7 1       113 21 361j  01 0     1 O   1     2 46
* |                          l   0    0   0   0 0 0          01   0   3.5%
4 LA     L1trais 210  =              JF20    21 8 Q1   0O 0 o                2 0 _
L    1    *1            1  1  17  1       --0 11  !   0l ol  ol  olo    l   ol
|Gnnn        I9 | 671 591    561  4 1125| 39 1 34 1 591   0 5       C< 
1~JjNorwaY   *IEIII1I4!21  1211   411               l  41     1 1             14-S% I
H lolland    2 a1 19 I 2m I a  i21 2B che1r  21 isyIai    oI T I on I
1I   r 3 1 yas Z: Ma& S yn    4         !1r 'I!  1 T       ! - 
7 France      26 152 161 1 121 14 11 164 i 26 130 1 54 1 O  21 1  1 1I 132 l 
In a   on t e        2150 o a fs te G 7ov e               of Io    wa to prov
domestij fell8sps        ft30 124 |  168  n79P 3 h  30 p  98 r   7 0 134    M  c5  p om   7 
L-il     11  ~~~10l  3                1  13l  10  21  0  0  0  0l    2l2
underrlad      in t   las y    o  s     3td   9n d     6a   0   elo       i  shr term
tlran      TIe n1 of Ps                           we 1 v  0c   0    0 e o
bacheor derefllowhp  exe|e  th  ogina l 7 tages  Th  bahlr felwhp  were
felblowsipns ri   f     6 m        co1mpute oa la g e      ou        o    I wee  m
L_iL   *11.   !   !   I   !   I   gl  oll !  !  !  !- I    I   0   0       . 0
custrie 1e p           H      r a b             of ths cou Is            o ol     r
|    TTAL  ILDX | ss4 |30|   |16| so |1    0 !       39 | 299   0a 1 6    0  3I  
13 NOdO 3                                                           0VS2W           aJ  A  uuta aaa
time.rArrduction in the last budetr betee 1tu85 and 1989imtey0 neeslositatestha ther numermo
domstchmaster degree fellowships bxeereduhed (Siina tablet4B. Wihe tahelsubsequent<dshipsnr
14fellwshp  rangin  fro   6   ot  optradlnug  cusst                     ekmngmn
Mcduw   m weervie. Mowevr,a 2yu  :baelkown of thesecoresws 41ot AavTailaleatprntn
undergrArduation in the lasbdgt yetweenstudy and aproimtey90 feellosiaethipti shor numermo
boatchmaster degree fellowships exeededuhed oriina TargetsB. Tihe bahelr felloshipsn wereg



- 28 -
and Implementation of the STAID program in 1989, a large number of domestic fellowslhips
were included. Through these fellowships, shortcomings in the OFP domestic program are being
addressed.
TABLE 7B
BREAKDOWN OF DOMESTIC DEGREE FELLOWSHIPS AND NON DEGREE
TRA11ING PROVIDE BY GOI FUNDS WITHI EACH LPND
LPUND         ll     s3      fI      S2      ll      S1i          TOTAL     l
BAKOS                     0              4               0              4
BPS                       0              0             212            212
BPPT                      7             69               0             76
BATAN                    17             41             339            397
LAPAN                    12             31              85             128
LIPI                     16                              0              64
TOTAL              52                            636             881
d.    Completfon and Incompletion Rates'
Throughout the duration of the OFP the monitoring and evaluation section of the OFPIU has
analyzed the completion and incompletion rates for each program in each country. The results
have been updated in each semiannual progress report, thus management has had an ongoing
picture of the programs and countries in which problems were unfolding. Tables 8A and 8B
provide a "snapshot" of completion/incompletion rates as of December 31, 1992, while Table 3C
describes the number of fellows who have continued fr'zm one program to another. With regard
to these tables, the following observations should be made:
o     The completion rate for all programs is very 1igh (91%) - (See Tables 8A - 8B).
o     The most significant incompletion rates were in the master's degree programs (2A & 48)
and the undergraduate program (28) in Germany, Holland and France (See Table 3A and
3B). The primary reasons for incompletions in Germany, Holland and France were:
-     Language difficulties
-     Incompatibility between the Indonesian system and the foreign systems in France,
Holland and Germany (e.g. could not enter directly into the degree program at the
foreign university)
-     Cultural adjustment problems with Indonesian students (e.g., shy about taking
initiative and reluctance of Indonesian students to communicate with professors
and assimilate into the culture, especially In Holland)
-     Inexperience of the OFPIU with selection, placement and predeparture training in
the earliest Batches.
o     A significant drop in incompletion rates occurred in each subsequent batch. this is
attributable to several factors including (See Table 9):
-     improved recnritment and selection methods.



- 29 -
better placement strategies so  that fewer students were placed  in
countries/programs in which problems had arisen in the earlier batches.
an improved predeparture training period such that the quality of intensive
language preparation improved and the basic science and math program was
improved. In addition a cultural adaptation program was added.
.



- 30 -
TABLE 8A
SUMAMARY OF COMPEUONAINCOOMION RATES
FOR OFP BY COUNRY AND PROGRAM
f  No. of Ongiau OFP   No. of Oilal OFpFcIIouwsps     Noaof      Noaa OFP
Noo   jFclowhips Completed under  tha we  aot Co(mpcd           Original  Fe11owabip ibt
Odal    OF'PSTADPD gm                        IPgm  *          | Feilowhips    that lavc
OFP          It                                             J  stl Being    CoanAed to
Conuy        Pmogm   Fellowswhips OFP   STAll)   TAL    OF                TOTAL       t Utilized    Sccoad DIege
__          _ if    * 1       54  1[  1     1                 6              8(   14.81%)       25            0
USA         2A&48        144           489        94(    2 784)j4             211)         2            46
3          5 L 30                  4010   4 3            3(   545%)         10            2
r         -Ht    1             46     20       7       27      2      0      2(   4.3S%)        17            0
UKC      12^4   1110           57B       I 5576 s      13      0     13(   11.93%)        0   l       3
________           3         26      23       3       26 El         01    0(   0.00%)           0            0
rCANADA     (Iiro                                                if-$               0.00%) ___ ,! _______
_it4_ _         48              2 _32           9   O         9J       18.75%)    0    ___     7 _
-   li   I        - 'II i- j     t -   g -       r       i -         %)-l-i 
3               2      0                1      0      0      0(   0.00%)         0            0
AUSTRALIA      2A&4B    a18       18         0       8                     0(    0.00%)       0        _ __- I  - -10~.
'1        39    17        3       20Q     4              S(  12.82%)       14            0
Ir 2A&4         71    12        0       12    23       a     23 (   2.39%)        0           36
--       I-  1 -           -1  1          P }         1                 21 
[ s 2B         63       t 1    0    11                       8 (  12.70%)       54            0
4A         56]    3        0 S6            2 S           2 0    3 53         0        1 1
_ _~~ __                                                                                     -==-   __y,
I    1     3       3      0        3      0      0       0(   000%)        0      ___
HOLLAND       2A&4B13    21         16      0       16      411   0       4 (  19.05%)        0            1
128             I            1          101    15 1   2      17 (   9.8)1    145               0     1
: ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      - 14t -_ -_1   1 1      1 1 1         1       _1 
4A         12      10      0             10             0 (                 o 0.00%  0   2
Ii1    1   I 1l   31    191    6        2        310        3(    9.68%)          3            0
FRANCE       2A&4B  II   58        41      s        9     19      0   19(    32.76%)         2           28
28         61      2J17            19    10       $   15(  2459%)           20            7
4A         21      20      0       20      1      0      1 ( 4.76%)          0            0
1         40      17      4       21      3      0I       3(   7M%)         16    _       _     0
JAPAN        2A&4    l D30        62      0       62      3      01   3(   2.31%)           3S           30
3         168    104       0      104      S      0      S(    2.98%)       25     _       _
|         1l  ^    Jr- 4A  9H    69       6  1l7S         0      0l   > 0     0*0)1           L       4 
T1MAnAm D 1   2A    11   6   l 2               [ 0   S    1        0      1(   16A7%   ) _                 0
} __      1l  ~~4.B8       3_1j            0I           1      0l     L    3333*)1                   2
I IJ     1 EHLLL!__   0 
r                         II 4B     f(**1   1    |   0|   I 8  0 || 0    || 0   ( _              0_           0
AUSMIA   IL  28            10      0Jf                1   0JI    0              0(00%)      to              -
PHlIPPINE        2A--    3 X         3       017   ]  3 1|__  011   0 (            0)ll       O 1 0        0
I __________ ft           u.L4B       L        L2  =.L 0  J     3 21         0      0.00%)I .. t.|
lNSZErAN              tE    a] E                        Ii                   0 (  .00%)          I 
I  NORWAY                               0 1    !                             0      O0% 
T 0TAL_                    1560       7                       139 IF1   149 (   9M5%)                        239
*suneo  Inlud 6 frlw  h  id whie aod4 an  [do  who atumud due toi;_



- 31 -
TABLE 8B
SUMMARY OF OFP COMPLEION/INCOMPLETION RATES BY PROGRAM
No-of      No.of OFP r-4lowsbps             No. of FelIOawsips           No.of      No.of OlU
Original    OFP/STAID Cotpleted             not Completed under            OFP       rellowships
OFP       _   uad Phrogam                 pOF/STAID Program           Fcilowshipe    That Ilave
ftelowships                                                            1 o  Still Being   Continued to
Progm       Utilizd  |OF       STA lil TAL        OFP    STAJD       TOTAL           Utlized   Scond Dece
t 223                 9    5           120!    isE        3      21 (9.42%)          82
2A&4B          604 _     8        11    299  1                      77 ( 175)              [ 39I_    1Z
28                                               33  n       ] 7  40 ( 13.07%1)    2W 1E            7
3!I1D                                                     I      18(  3.09)l         3S           36
L  ^--  !,-  168                                                Ei12l      {   S  J    l  3(1.797%)   l0   -! 7 
IZTotali||  1,S60   gr 788  ||  79  || 78?                 1  10   1149 (  9.55%)LI 385               2



- 32 -
TABLE BC
SUMMARY OF FELLOWS
WHO HAVE CONTUlED TO ANOTHER PROGRAM
48,?   4A..1 24A,j 4A-t  3-2-2A F2i-;2A  23--ol  2A-lb   A34 4    AA
lsppr  s     1                    I                  21
JI DPPTl Sh{   l> 1                                             2ir1l
laps       3                                               1
LAJ'AN     I
Dg~~~LLoLL ----                                                    6
ioUL      BAKOS                                                      2
BATAN       H |
.PpI       211                                            17
LAPVAN
t ~ ~ P ____ :U12 --xr   6~-  l      l                              r     1l 
CA jA AKOSj
=L_                  23-
R ATAN
Swvr
LAI'AN     I
SATAN                                                     12[
.         ..~pp.  _.
EATAN                1                                     41
APM(   SAKOS1
LAPAN       f1                                             3
LIP!___ 
FAIA1B    SAKOS        r 
SATAN             II t
SW!.       I
LAPAN                                        2             2
LEK!                                                 I     9
WDAN      SAKOS      0                                00             3        
SATAN      2     2      1      1      1             0     41     0 
BPS              0~                32                          0
LAPAN      33-               ~                        
-M      -                                            
MfA LAND   SAMS- 
SATAN                                     -.      - 
8wr ~~~                   ~       ~        57      1     I
Nos  .Do~  5) 2mMw (~   8  acdt(1)  .Ssdo 5) 4mZdBPSTbn. 5  eeacTuau



- 33 -
TABLE 9
INCOMPIEIION RATES BY BATCH AND PROGRAM
I                     -- t l | 96OF I4COMPLE'11ONS
NO. FELLOWS                                               (COMPARED TO TOTAL
DEPARIIRE    ORIGINALLY                          INCOMPLETATIONS          FELLOWS ORIGINALLY
BATCH           DATE             SENT         PROGRAM            UNDER OFP                     SEN)
9             1                    0                        0.00%
Before            121             2A                  32                        26.45%
BATCH I         October 31,           31             2B                   6                        19.35%
1985               8              3                    1                       12.50%
I            4A                    0                        0.00%
November t,          21              1                    4                        19.05%
198S             137          2A&4B                  20                        14.60%
BATCII H           Until             133             2B                  22                        16.54%9
October 31,          76              3                    3                        3.95%
1986              19             4A                    2                       10.53%
November1,            18             1                    4                       22.22%
1986              77           2A&4B                   8                       10.39%
BATCH IU           Until             134             2B                   12                        8.96%
October31,          123              3                    2                        1.63%
1987     |        94             4A                    1                        1.06%
November 1,           69             1                    7                        10.14%
1987             118           2A&4B                   8                        6.78%
BATCH IV           Until              11             2B                   0                         0.00%
October31,           48              3                    2                        4.17%
1988              33             4A                    0                        0.00%
November 1,           S9             1                    5                        8.47%
1988             102          2A&4B                    9                        8.82%
BATCH V            Until               1             2B                   0                         0.00%
Octobet31,            3              3                    0                        0.00%
1989              14             4A                    0                        0.00%
Novemb, r,            39             1                    1                        2S6%
1989               7           2A&4B                   0                        0.00%
BATCH VI           Undl      |         0             2B                    0                        0.00%
Octobet 31,           0              3                    0                        0.00%
1990               1             4A                    0                        0.00%
Novcmber1,             7              1                   0                         0.00%
1990              40             2A                    0                        0.00%
BATCH VI]          Until               0             2B                    0                        0.00%
October31,            0              3                    0                        0.00%
_________          1991      1         6      ji    4A       I            0                         0.00%
TO, XTAL          11      1560      1              1          149            i .
Note: 7 Fdlows who returned due to illness or death are atso Included ia Table 9



- 34 -
e.    Analysis of Time Required to Complete Each Program
At the beginning of the OFP, policies were developed regarding the time needed for completion
of each program. (Refer to Table 6A). At that time It was felt that these policies were needed in
order to provide as many fellowships as possible at a reasonable cost and in order to motivate
fellows to complete their programs as quickly as possible. Some of the time limits set for certain
programs in certain countries were later deemed to be too short in duration. In such instances
where extensions of time were needed, if after a review of the fellows progress it was apparent
that the fellow was not "wasting time," such extensions were given in six month increments.
In general, the vast majority of students completed their programs within the time allowed. This
was especially true in Program 2A (Masters), Program 3 (Bachelors), Programs 4A (Industrial
Training) and Program 4B (Academic Training). On the other hand, the time alloted by the
OFPIU for Program 1 (Doctorate) and Program 2B (Bachelors/Masters) proved to be an
insufficient time needed to complete the program.
At the conclusion of OFP the following analysis was made to determine the actual time thlat was
needed thus far to complete each program. Tables 10A through 15C describe the time required
for each programn for those who finished under OFP sponsorship, the time required for each
program for those who started under the OFP but completed under the STAID program, and the
number of OFP students on December 31, 1992 in each program who were still studying abroad
in their original OFP program but under STAID sponsorship.
A comparison may be made on each table showing the number of fellows who completed their
program on time versus those who were either late or early. The shaded area of each table
indicates those who finished within 6 months of the time allowed. The following is an analysis
of the data contained in tables 10A through ISC.
For Proaram 1 (Doctoral) of the 120 fellows who have already completed the program 62 (50%)
took more than 3.5 years to complete the program. There are still a large number of Program 1
students (82) still studying abroad. Most of these are concentrated in the United States, United
Kingdom and Germany. In almost all cases the major cause for extended time has been
problems with writing the dessertation. In future fellowship programs it is recommended that
more emphasis be given to technical writing training for Ph.D candidates prior to departure and
during their first few months abroad.
For Program 2A (Masters. the vast majority of students have finished within the time allowed.
In the United States, writing skills have slowed several students. The 35 still studying in Japan
will finish in March 1993, thus completing their program within 3 years.
For Program 2B (Masters/Bachelors), there have been major problems in completing the degree
within the time allowed, particularly in Holland and Germany where 145 students and 54
students respectively were still studying on December 31, 1992. An analysis of problems in
Holland and Germany were documented in several OFP Progress Reports and are summarized
below:
There are many factors tuat have contibuted to such a high incompleuio rate among tue
Program 2B fellows. Interviews with several returnees and wih dhe montoruig team who visited
the fellows in folland as well as examition of retwrnees'faes revealed thefollowing:



- 35 -
I.     AUl of the retwnees seletion scores indated high aptitudes and achievement scores;
therefMre, a lack of inteUigence was not a factor;
2.     Some returnees did not have good study skUls and, thus had limited ability to manage
their time;
3.     Some returnees never adjusted to living in a foreign environme, althougih language
skifls did not seem to be as big a problem as one would think; ,revertheless it was a
problem
4.     Neither the Duch or Germany system requires regular attendance in classes, therefore
somefellows' absenteeism was excessive;
S.     Since all feows were studying at the same university in Hollan4, there was a tendency
not to mix with other students, resulting in isolation
6.     Thee performance of many of these fellows was wnconsistent, varying from course to
course and semester to senester;
7      Tihe educational systems in Hollamd and Germany is not as flexible as in some other
countries. For instance, f a student does not complete all of the Propadeus Program
widhn the first two years, he is not allowed to contiue In some cases, if fellows could
have moved at a slightly slowerpace, chancesfor success miglt have been enhanced;
8.     Most fellows were recent highschool graduates; du& maiy might have been a factor;
A more recent analysis of the 145 students still remaining in Holland indicates that
approximately 60 % will finish their program within 7 years. Since the FPIU considers Program
2B equivalent to a Masters in other countries a period of 7 years is not alarming (i.e. 4 years for
Bachelors degree + 3 years for Masters). However, anything beyond 7 years is considered a
major problem. For this reason the FPIU is considering recalling students who cannot finish
within 7 years.
For Program 3 (Bachelors). almost all of the fellows have completed their program within the
time allowed. A large number (68) finished within 3.5 - 4.5 years. Twenty-five students are still
studying in Japan and 10 in the United States but all will finish within a 5.5 year period.
For Pro-ram 4A (Industrial Training) the great majority of fellows finished their program within
15 years. The reason for the longer period in Japan is due to the 1 year research program and
language training required prior to entering Japanese universities.
For Program 4B (Academic Training) the great majority of fellows completed their training on
time.



- 36 -
TABLE IOA
TIM REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 1
OFP
Length of SudyAbrod (Yea)
Country    0T1   i        4 l    >2 :23 S.41i434.5 >7fl                    -  >5-5.5 -  .5 -6  Total
USA                                              2      3      1       5       3      3       2      19
UK             -      -          4      4                       8      2     -                       20
Canada                                                                                                0   
Autralia                                                                                              0 ..     
Cen___.  .  __1 .                     =   _-1r __3                     2                        .
~~~Ioiland         1~~~~~~~~~~~~                         1                             37
Vrano                  -            -2 21          -   6                                    -        19
Japan                     _                      =       tffi .........................     tO -10  3 4 -4  17
Thailand                                                                                              0
llolgilwmn                                                                                            0
Austra     -                          E ..                                               ...          (
lhilippinos                                                            ,                              O
Norway                                                                                                0
NewZwZaland    -                                                                                      0
Total    =            1      6   t3   ___1r    ST --5 27           11      S       4       2     95
.
TABLE 1OB
TIME REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 1
UNDERSTAID
!___          ____Lengh of Stdy Abod (Yca)
County     0-1  1>-1.5 >1.5 -2     - >25>2.5-3>3-35 >35-4 >4-4.5 >4-5 >5-5.5 >5.5-6  rotal
USA                            -              -       -              -       -       -
UK                                                 I 1                        -e I  l   1  7
GeI  -ny                                                        1      2                              3
Holland                                                                                               0
Iranoa                     |       |      IaS;9iSvS * l    3     1                                    6
lJapan                                     1    |A      S-- 1  |1                                        ..... 1  4
rThailand            1                                                                   40o.;    I........... 
{Belgum     |      1                                                                                  1 g lE9!, 
fAuda|||||strYia                                      :0  .......    
philppinea                    - S                                                 -      10
NOMaY             1                                                                                   1
-7tdal            2 2            2       1   " |                               3       0      O
TAM 10C STILSWDYING UNER STAID
Country
orR-~ ---
IUSA-         -I    5
a;iizw- ---
|AWsWia           I  
Japan
llhiiliDd 
w danI
orhta# t



- 37 -
TABLE 11A
TOWE REQUIRD FOR PROGRAM 2A
OFP
Length of Study Abroad (Year       -       -
COUntry  Y>O    -  111-151 >S1.5 - 2      >2.5 - 3 >3 - 3.5 >3.5 - 4 >4 - 4.5 >4.5 - 5 >5 - 5.5 >5.5 - 6  Total
USA                1       1     13      29      2A  Ilo                                               79
UK        -        1       3      4      35       7   1                                                53
Canada                             1      6       9       6 6                1                          2S
Australia          I                              4       3                                             8
Germany         -                         3       5
lfolland           1       2      2       2       3       3                                             14
Framce         _ _ _                      1    . i2-                     
Japan              1               2      3      39      10       3      1                              59
Thailand           2               1      2    -       -                                                5
Belgium                                                                                                 0
Austria                               -
Phlippine                  2       1                                                                     3
Norway          _                                
New Zealand                             -              -       -                                         0
Total       7        8       25      81    92      35     5        3          I                 257
TABLE lIB
TME REQUIE FOR PROGRM 2A
UrNDER STA          _
-        -          Length ~~~~~of Study AboiY L...... -            
Country     0-1   >1-1L5 >1S-52 >2-2.5 >2.5-31>3-3.5 >355-4 >4-4.5 >455-5 >5-5.5 >5.5-6  Total
| USA                                      1              2                                              3
IUK          0L -]                   I    0     
_rl                                                               2 __2
|Australia                                                                                               0l
Gemnany                                                                        -      -       -          0
Holland                                                                                                  0
France                     5                                                                             5
Japan                   r                                                                                0 ---l-r^--   
Thailand                                                                                                 0
Belgium                                                                                                  0
Austiia                                                                                                  0
Pbilppines                                                                                               0
Norway                                                                                                   0
New Zeland                                                                                               0
Total          O      5       0        I      0       2      2       0       0       0             10
TABLE 1lC SILL STUDYING UNDER SrAID
Counry
IUSA            - 2
Japs         ~~35
|Aiutiia
Ausiaae      I     2
pahtppi3S
lbibad



- 38 -
TABLE 12A
TIME REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 2B
OFP
Length of Studyvbroad (Yeats_
0-1  ,  LS A>15-2 >2-2.5 >2.5-3 >3-3.5 i3.5-4 >4-4.5 >4.5-S >5S5.5 >5.5-6  Total
USA                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
UK                                                                                                     0
Canada                                                                                                 0
Australia              __
Germany                                                                                                I -  -  -  -  -  -
llolland        -      -               -      -                                         3              3
France                                                                                                 2
Japan __2_
Thailand                                                                                               0
liegiuni 
Austria                                                                                                0
Philippines                            -       -      ---                                    -0
Norway                                                                                                 0
New Zealand                                                                                            0
Total         0       0       0      0       0       0      0 4             1              0       6
TABLE 12B
TE REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 2B
UNDR STAID
Legtof Study rad(Yeat)
Country     0-1  >1-15 >1. -2 >2-2.5 >2.S.3 >3-3.5 >3.5-4 >4-4.5 >4.5-5 >5-5.5 >5.5-6  Total
USA                                                                                                    0
UKI                                                                                                    0
Canada                                                                                                 0
Australia                                                                                              0
Gennany                                                                                                0     
Holland                                                                                        7       7
France                                                                                  4      13     17
Japan                                                                                                  0
.hailaud                                                                                               0
j,^i -   -- r-                                  i-~ --    0
Austia                                                                                                 0
Philippines     -       -      -   --          -      -       -       -           -                    0
Norwy 
iVo zcal-and                                                                                           0
TobdW I    01       01     01  - 01 01         0    1     0       O     --0  0    4     20      24
TAKE 12C STlL STUDYING UNER STAID
Country
~um
|UKI                I
[Austialia   
no Zalanyd       5
fw- - 2w
lapao       
pSlgium
Philippines  
g   lotl    | i229



- 39 -
TABLE 13A
TIM REQURED FOR PROGRAM 3
OFP
-Leng  of Study  (bboadQers)
Couttq      0.1  >, 1- 1.5 ->1.52 i2-2   >2.5 ->-3   S-3   >3S3.5-4 >4-4.S >4.5-5 >5-5S5 >S.5-6    otal
USA                                1        1I            2       5      16       4                     30
UK                                                                       10      13                     23
Canada                                                                                                   0
Australia                                                        10                                     10
Holand                                                                                                   0
France                                                                                                   0
Japan                                             I               I      10      91               1    104
Ihdiand                                                                                                  0
Belgium                                                                                                  0
Austia                                                                                                   0
Philippines0
NorwayO
NewZeal-od._
To- .I         0       0       1      1       2       2      16      36     108       O          1  6
TABLE 13B
TIME REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 3
UNDERS A D
Length fA broead m
;Countr    | O-1  1>1 >15 |>lS - 2 1>2-25  >2.5- 3   >3 3-3 S>3.S *41>4 -4.5 >4.5.5 >S5-5.S >S.5- 6  Total
USA                                                               7       3                             10
UK                                                                                3                      3
Canada                                                                                                   0
Austrais                                         0-
0
Holland                                                                                                   0
France                                                                                                    0
Thailand                                                                                                  0
Belgium                                               I0
Austra                                                                                                    0
l'hilinvines-                                                                         7                       -   0.. --
___________                                                                                              0
Norway- -0-
New Zealand                   .
Total          0      0       0       0       0       ol    7         3       .               0O   13
TAXE 13C S= LSTUDYIG UNDER STAID
Country
|UKI                 I
Austral a
gor i--1
__a   _ _   __.
IJapan       | 2
rEland
,Noew Zdand
r   Totat    1 3



- 40 -
TABLE 1SA
TIME REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 4B
OFP
Length of Study Abroad (Yea)
Country     0-1  >1-1.5 I     S> 2 >2-2.5 >2.53 >3-3.5 >3.5-4 >4-4.5 >4.5-5 >5-5.5 >5.56  Total
USA                        7      29
UK                         2              1       1                                                      4
Canada                     3      2                                                    -                 5
Australia                                                                                                0
Germany            3                                                                                     3
Holland                    2            -  -                                                             2
France                            2                                                                      2
Japan                      2                                                                             2
Thaitand                   2                                                                             2
Belgium                            1                                                                      1
Austria                                                                                                  O
Philippines                1                                                                              1
Norway                                                                                                   0
New Zealand                                                               0                              O
Total         3       19      7       1       1                       0                            31
TALE 15B
TIME REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 4B
UNDER STAID
Length of Study Abroad (Years)
Country     0-1   >1-1.51>1.5-2 >2-2.51>2.5-3 >3-3.51>3.5-4 >4-4.S >4.5-5 >5-s5.51>5.5-6  Total
USA                                                                                                      0
UK                                                1I
Canada                                                                                                   0
Australia                                               __
Germany                                                                                                  0 .
Holland                   .
France                                                                                                   0
Japan                                                                                                     0
Thailand          -
Belgium                                              
Austria                                                                                                   0
Philippines                                           
Norway                                                                                                   0
New Zealand                                                                                              0
Total           00        0       0    1      0   1         0        0             b 0  0
TABLE 15C SML SYING UNER SrAI
Country
|USAI                I
KuUa-iaMs
Colanada    
Tam any   r
lranee
Japan
Ibilippinea
o-way,= 
New  ebd
lotal     



- 41 -
TABLE 1SA
IME REQUIRD FOR PROGRAM 4B
OF?
-- - -         Lcagthn of Study Ara  Yas
country     0-1  >      5 Il3 5-2  2;.5 >2.5-3 >3-3.5 >3.S-4 >4-451>4.5-3  3-5-5         .>S.-6  Toul
USA                        7      2                                                                      9
UK                         2              1       1                                                      4
Canada                     3      2                                                                      5
Australia                                                                          0.
Germany            3                                                                                     3
Hollaud                    2                    -      =                                                 2
France                            2                                                                      2
Japan                      2                                                    -      -                 2
Thailand                   2                                                                              2
Belgium                            1                                           -  -   -                   I
Austria                                                                                                  0
Philippines     _I              ==                     =               =       _       _       _I
Norway                                                                                                   0
New Zealand                                                                                               0
Total          3_1   19       7       1       1       0       0       0       0     0        0      31
TABLE ISB
TIME REQUIRED FOR PROGRAM 4B
UNDER STAID                                                           _       _     _    _     _
engthof      AbudyoadYr)                 
Coun        0-1   >1-1.5 >1.5-2 >2-2.51>2.5-3 >3-3.51 >_-4 >-4.4  >4.5-S >5.5S|>.5.6  Total
USA                                                                                                      0
UK                        _ _
Canada                                                                                                   0
Australia                                                                                                0
Germany         -       -                                               -       -                        0
Holland                                                                                                  0
France                                                                                                   0
Japan         --        - >             -       -                                                         0
Thailand                                                                                                  0
Belgium                                                        -      -o-  -v -:                       -0_    
Ausiria                                                                                                   0     
Philippines     -       -       -:              -       -      -O  
Norway          .                       -       -       -                                                 0
New Zealand                                                                                               0
Total        0:                                       0       0       0       0       0      0        1
TABLE ISC SMLL STUDYING UNER SIAID
Country   |__
USA
IUKI                 I
tCanada'      
Australia
Germany
Itance
Japan
ITailand
Belgium
"hilippinca I 
Norway
oew &aland 
I   lrotai   F- I



- 42-
f.    Distribution of fellowships among LPNDs
All of the participating agencies significantly improved their educational profile through OFP,
nevertheless there was some wide variation in each agencies original targets vis a vis those
realized. There were many more participants from BPPT than from the other LPNDs (See Table
16).
A study was made to determine why there was such a disproportionate share of participants from
BPPT. In the study each LPND was asked to provide input as to why they felt they did not reach
their targets. The primary findings of the study indicated that there were more BPPIT fellowships
for the following reasons:
1.    There was a larger pool of applicants from BPPT because of:
a.    higher salaries
b.    more choices of fields of study
c.    opportunities to continue studies are thought to be greater in BPPT
d.   the age of BPPT employees is generally younger since it is a relatively
*    new agency.
2.    The target submitted by BPPT was larger than the others.
3.    For the first two years of the program (ie. Batch 1 and 2), only BPPT chose to
recruit undergraduates participants.
4.    The BPPT employee selection process is very stringent. As a result those
graduate applicants proposed by BPPT were generally better able to fulfill all the
admission requirements of OFP as well as other fellowships programs. This was
supported by statements from BATAN and LIPI.
S.   In the care of UPI graduate applicants it was noted that age requirements were a
constraining factor.
6.    Several LPNDs noted that their applicants just could not pass the selection tests.
The largest percentage of females come from BPPT (13.13%o) and LIPI (20.6%). The percentage
of female participants for all agencies combined was 16.18% This figure is considered very
good in the science and technology area.



TABLE 16
MALE/FEMALE PARTICIPATION IN OFP BY AGENCY
-r                                                [ sBATAN                       B    .               BPS                 LAPAN           -   ul               -, TOrAL
No  COD COUNTRY   M   P                     _                 F   Pf  =                   P         M              M          F         M          F          MP
I t USA                3                        18    1               91   20              15    1              15    6              29    5              171   33
2  UK                  S       __      _         9 12                 72 l                         ___           5     1             26  12               117    26
3   CANADA             1                        17     2      _        3     1              9     2              2     1              8     2              40      6
4 AUSTRALA                                       2   1                 3                    3               _                        10                     i   2
.GE,MANY                                      30      2              85    1              -                    23     3             34     4             172 2i
6   HOLLAND            4                        11     1             127    18             12     1              8              ,   19      4             181    24
7FIANCE                     1                       25      1              38     6              1                   32     8             18     8             115    23
8   JAPAN              7                               9             159    21              1                   47     7             34    ii             301    48
9   T{HAAND                                                            I                                         1                    4     1               6      1
10  BELGIUM                                       2                                                                                                          2      0
11  AtUSTRIA            4.    1                                        3                        _ =  _                         .      2                      9 .
12  PHL_P-IES                          .      - =      -.__                                 3                                        __._           _        3 __  _
13  NORWEGIA                                      1                                                                                                      - 
14  NEWZElAND                                       I                                                                                                        I _
TOTAL               2_S      1  (0.54%        168 1 17  (9.24%) 582  88  (47.83%)l 44 1  4  (2.16%) 133    26  (1413%) 185    48  (26.9%) 1,137    14  (16.18%)
r.I          (3.84%)           1    - (9.19%*) I(13.13%)l                         (8.3%)j                           j (I3-%)I    (20.6%)  168
Tbb peatage represenb the number of female putidpntb from eacb agenc compared toteotal number of OFP femae particpak (ls   184)
his pcntuagtep seAc b   mbe  f femle patikipanta is eh agency compare to the total number of paticipans fm tat agency



- 44 -
g,     Targeted Fields of Study
o      Table 17 lists the % of students in each field of study for each fellowship programs.
Throughout each program there have been numerous requests to broadened the fields of
study. There have been numerous requests for the inclusion of management programs
related to science and industry, for example, industrial technology, manufacturing
technology, industrial engineering, etc. This request is now partially addressed in the
STAID program.
TABLE 17
MAJOR FIELDS OF SrUDY FOR OFP, SIMDP AND STAID FElLCWSHIPS
AS OF DECEMBER 1992
Total Number
Felowships
No.             Field of Study           O(:P             SOTA OECF |WB    TOTAL   Pcft1c;t
1.  Electrical/Eectronlcs Engineeing      264       87      67       78       496     16.3
2.  Industrial Training                   168       50      77       24       319     10.5
3.  Mechanical Engineering                183       55      35       38       311     10.2
4.  Information/Computer Sciences         122       73      42       58       295      9.7
5.  Chemical Engineerng                   129       28      31       37       225      7.4
6.  Metal/Material Sciences                61       28      34       65       188      6.2
7.  Matbematical Sciences                  34       21.      6      100       161      5.3
S.  Nuclear Engineering                    88       25       12      33       158      5.2
9.  Life Science                           95       13       15      11       134      4.4
10.  Physics                                84      22       11        8      125      4.1
11.  Industrial/System Engineering          34      32-      25      28       119      3.9
12.  Others                                 81      14       11       12      118      3.9
13.  Earth Sciences                         54      22        8       14       98      3.2
14.  Biotechnical/Blochemical SciencAs *    56      13        7       12       88      2.9
15.  Aeospace Engineering                   30      16.    3          22       71      2.3
16.  Civil Engineering                      23       7        9        6       45      1.5
17.  Agricultural Engineering               29       3        6        7       45      1.5
18.  Marine Engineering                     20       4        4       8        36      1.2
19.  Petroleum Engineering                   5       0        0        0        5      0.2
[ZJr               TOTAL                   1,560     513      403     561      3,037  [1
Includes:                                          Note Totals:
Economics       *   Microbiology
Urban Develop        Biochemistry            Engineeing                  50%
Social Science       Genetics                Science                      40%
Political Science     Biotechnology          Industrial Training          10%
Rural Develop                                                            100%
Operation Res
Libtary
Demogtaphy, etc.



- 45 -
h     Analysis of Targeted Fields of Study as Compared with Final Fieids of Study
In the early stages of the OFP, certain fields of study were selected by the LPNDs to meet their
needs for research and technology. Those included eight major fields: Biotechnology, Chemical
Engineering, Computer Science, Electronics and Electrical Engineering, Industrial and
Mechanical Engineering and Physics. As the LPNDs further defined their research and
technology needs, the fields of study were expanded to 19 major subject matter areas
(See Table 17).
At the same time, the LPNDs requested a certain number of fellowships at various degree levels
and for non-degree training to match their manpower needs. These requests were also modified
based on the agencies ongoing developments.
Tables 18A-18F show how the original targeted fields of study and degree levels compare with
the final (actual) fields of study and degrees for the OFP for each LPNDs. As indicated in the
tables there are variations between the targeted fields of study (and degree levels) and the actual
areas of study for OFP. Several reasons are presented for these differences:
o     The First-time field of study and manpower needs projections that were presented in the
SAR was a good first effort but not conclusive
o     Changes occurred in the LPND demand/needs
o     In some cases targeted candidates did not meet the admission requirements either due to
age or previous academic background
o     When a small number of candidates were eligible for a high targeted field of study but a
large number of candidates were eligible for a low targeted field of study then
adjustments were made to accomodate the large number of eligible candidates. This was
the case at BPPI with chemistry candidates.
o     Targeted candidates failed selection tests while other candidates passed whose
backgrounds were in other fields of study. This possibility was not addressed in the SAR
o     Certain fellows were accepted for a higher academic degree
o     Often different terminology was used for specialized areas of study or requests were too
general (e.g., Management, Naval, History of Technology).
It should be noted that all changes made in fields of study were made by, or in consultation with,
the LPNDs. The major difficulty was in matching agency requests with university titles for their
programs of study. Consultation with the agency resulted in appropriate adjustments.



- 46 -
TABLE ISA OFP TARGBTA/LEDS OF SUDY
FOR LPNDs COMPARED
BAKOSURTANAL
IL PhD                MS       I      BS       ||NUN DEfRE it
_       _       j ~~~T |P |  F|S| T |P |F |S |T |P |F |   fT |P |F|S|
TAROET FIELDS OF SlllDY
GEOMEIRCGEODESY            I  I -            2  1 __         1  _  _       _
PHYSICAL O0DESY           t                 1  1                        7  10
AERIALM IO810GRAPUY                           1  2  1                        S
CARIOGRAPHY                I _               2   1      _16
RESOJURCBMANAGEM!1T        I _                1  2
URaBANPLANNING                         I_    t
RURALPLANNII=
REGION SIIIDY                                 I _
INIEBRAIEDSURVEY                        1   t            I               I
OEOMORPIIOLOOY            _
RB401E SENSIN4            _   I               I
COMPU! RSCIENCB      _=       I=              2             1   4       -14
ADDED hEMS OFSTUDY         1_  _
GOGRAPHY                =          _X=        |21=-|                    2 1         
MEC_IANiAL ENGINEERING                                                   I
TOTALTARGEr   _         |S||           ||  51|I1 2  _                 |    so 1 1  
OALPASSED                      3  3                              4
-        TAL FAIE               1                                    0            j 0 t
TOTAL SflLSIVDYINO ABROAD   __                                          to1        I    2
TOTALTAR1ETIAC1VAL           SM jj             1t59         L2tt4 Z            50tl
T  TARIEr
P PASS
FP FAIL
S  SILSTlUDYINGABROAD



- 47 -
TABLE 18B OFP rARGEr/ACIUAL FIEWS OF STUDY
FOR LPNDs COMPARED
BATAN
Pb.D              s   M                    Is NON DMREE_I
t   _  ='l IS 17 T_   F   S   T   -   F    S - I: _   F 
TARGETFU3LDS OF STUDY             _        __*   _   _   _   _          _  _             _   _
REAC7ORPJfYSICS              2 -   -    1   4       _                         -2   3
REACTORTCIINWLGY             2   2       2   4   7                 1           3   2
ThIUMOHYDRAUICS              2               4 =_  1                           1
NUCLEAR TBCHNOL,GY                       1   1  2                              6   2   _
HEALIl PHYSS                   1 1            6   7 _        _       _         4
MEcAICALENGINEEUNO           2   _      _    15                            2   3
LECrICALENGINEERNG                  _        3   2           _    3        2   7   2
INSTRUMElTrAMON EO.          3   2       1  IC   3   3                         4   2
NUCLEAR ENGINERIN            4   6      10  10  26   2             2     1 1   3   6 __
Ci2bCALENGUIERINO            5   4       2  20   7   I             I       2   1  4 =
ELECTROMCS                   6   1           16   2   3            1           8   2
h(ETALLUROY/MATERIAL         1  2        2   6  11   3             1       1  10   2
PiYSICS                      1  2        2   5   9   1                     1   2 _  __
ci1H0SThY                   8   4       3  30   9   1             I            1   I
MATHdAMICS                               1 I_    I                             2   1 __
BIOLOGY                      2   1            7          =                     4 __
MIXINO ENGINEERNO               _       _     3       1                        7   1
GEOLOGICALENagNEERINO        1  3             4                                t 11   1
GEOSTATiCS                                    2           1                    4
GEOPHYSICS                       I            2 _                          1   3   1
MINERALOGY                                    2                               4 4     =
NUt.EAR aEMICALDNG.          I  2        1   3   4 11   1                       7   2
RADIOPHARMACY               _5 =   =                                            6   1
GEOCHEMTRY                                                                      7 _
ADDED FIEDS OP STUDY
COWUMENGIG               11      1 1-.  -    6   1                                  2
PLAN BREEDING                    1    1         IL   2                              1
ENGINUPBNGEOONOM|S                               1I
HIDROLOGY                                                                           I
I TOTALTARGET                | 43              1 162              0               1 0 1l   I
TOTALPASSED              j      33: 1111                                           37--I
TOTALPAIMi      D         1   1      0              18                             44
:   'TSITD                      2          - :o                '_
|Tt)TALTARMIACIUAL         ll 43t60         1162/103        ||   Q21               110/37
T TARCGBT
P PASS
F: PAL
S    StILLSTUDYING ABROAD
.3



- 48 -
TABLE 18C OFP TARGETIACTUAL FEIDS OF STUDY
FOR LPNIs COMPARED
-BPFF
.; .B.e 
Pb D                                    as MS |   t1l   NONntD;RFJ    |
T |          S ||T |P| F |S |                     F |S | T | P|P  s|
TARGtr SLDS OP STUDY
PHiRMACY                     _    1 t           2   1-   1                                        1 i
MATHEMATIcs                       2                  to   I _I0 t        tO    t   2   6   .     
YSKcS                             I   I_ _           6   3          21  20   I   t   2  _             _
AERODYAMiCS                       t      _           2  =         _      5
AURONAUS                          I   I  _            2  _    =1  2   3   7   5
SLBCTRONWCS                       3  =               I 0   14   1   It   20  64  tS  72    1   t
URBAKWGIONALODUvOPMVEN LO =           3   1           1   4               2                   1   3
HEALTH PiYSICS                    I                        1              2  =
COMPUISA                          2   1              to   91  2   3    S   9   2   7   13   2
CtiiS7IRY                         2        1   3    4   10   1   3   10  22   6   27              4 4
SYSIEMSCIENCE                    i      I   I         1   2=                                =    = I
Bsm.soMics                             I  _     I    5   t0                                   5
iNlD:ISTR[ALE8NGOINl1NG           2  _               11   8              is    I              S   I
I IThIALPSYC1OIlOGY               1                   1                                       2
MANAGEiMENT                             1_            4   2  _                               t10       1
BUSINES ADMINISTRA1ON                                I3                  10 t
HISTORY OP 7TCHOL_GY              I                      _
OIS GESI'StS                      I                   2_
MSTAJRGY/MAIERALSCISIC|               2      I        3   7 1                                 2
APPLED G60PHYSICS                                     4                                       2   12  _
AGRICULLURB IGNG1nG               1 _                10   4              t0       =5 
G031ICMPR4AOVEM                 =     I               1   2                                   2
TISSUECULTURE3iSNOINDiNR          I                                                          10
MICOBIOLOGY/UIOiDGY               2                   5   1              is =
LOGALPATENTANDcONRAcr             I t
SYSTEM ANALYSIS                   4                  1o   3              1t
MDCMAICALINGINZ|G                 3   1         2   10  III         9   10  56  12  65            3
31OlB04OUWGY                          6         1 t     5   9_      3   15 1                      2
NAVAL                             2        1          2   3               Si
VBIERWARY                                             4                  10 l
ARCItsiCrU_ 2                                   1t    6   31             20
CriL ENGOWERI  ANDTEcHNOLOGY      4   t         3    2   I _ 1                 1 I                3
ENPRGY                            3   2         2    7   8               to 1     =               S
ADDED FUMDmOF ST)DY
0| OLOGICAL                             I
OPERAISON RESEARC H                                        3   1
M NIG AND MDMAL                                 2          4
POODS as 4c|  2  1                              1          4                                       2
MEnxIOLOGY                                                2      |
INIZa71ONALREL|-ATIONS                 I       --
PgMROIEUM ESN0MEDUG                    1        1          3 1
MARINEEZNGIM|                      |   11      7           7                   1   21   6          3  
ST|RUIURALWNGN IPR                    1                   2
INPTUMU4TAI1oN                                             2
INFoRMKAIONSYS1MI                                          2   2                   t   1  __
BIOLOGY                                                                                             I 1
| IND)TRIALTRAINOIN                                                                               34 1  1
I  WOLOGY                      11 ItI I I                   tI    I 11 1 I 1               1 1 1 1 1
| YDRi|oI|Ahc                                              1 
NU1EAR WNGIIIRI I                                                               I1
TOTALTARGET                                         153                 229 |             11821 
TOTALPASSED                           30                 t74                171           I    [76
rzzzzzizzzz z| S1l    1 ?!|       l1   
TOTALPAILIED                   Lit                                     5I     I                  
TOtALSlLLSTIUDY4GABROAD                                             34f 16    1e
TOTALTARGE17ACTUAL                  418876 0
T TARGSr
P PASS
P FAIL
S :SDLLSTUDYING ABROAD



- 49 -
TABLE 18D OFP TARGEI/ACrUAL FMLDS OF STUDY
FOR LPNDs COMPARED
BPS
_     r    Pi~~ftD    r      MS        |      B||NON DEGRt!E 
T   1P|    S  rT   P  F|S|r|P| F _L| T     ||T|P  F   F  Si
TARGETFELDS OFSTUDY          =   =  =   =                 - =     - =   =  =
COMPUIER                                        s =                          S  2
ECONOMICS                   3   1     ___   4 _7_?_
DEMOaRAPHY                  I                   3   1 _
AGRICULIURE STATIS11CS      2                    1            = =            4
MATHBAnn CALSTAISTICS      =                    2                            3  2
NAIONALACcOUNIT             3               3                                2
HOUSEHOLD                             ___   3
LABOR STATIS1CS            =       =        2   I                             3
STAThCS_ 3   1                          1   8  6                              4  2
DATA ANAUSYS                                    3 _                           6  6
PRICESrA=CS_==                                                                3
WEUARE STAT1SDCS           =                2                                 3
ELBCIRONIC DATA PROCBSSJZO    _   4
MANAGOMEITMINFORMAIION.         2           4   2                            3   1
SYSlUM
DATABASE                                     1                               2
O01ER REIATED lElDS        =       =        3
ADDED FEIDS OFSTUDY
RURALSDCIOLOGY                      1      -                                - r
ACTUARXALSC1ENCBE                                I |
CHUMICALENOUEERINI_O                           1
CARTOGRAPHY                                              I
TOTAL TARGET               121  1           30             01      I    1          |  | - |
TOTALPASSED                  1 41   1           32               0               14
TOTAL FAIED                  |      4    |2                            
TOTALSTIEUSSTDYINGAROAD  Il |11                             l |I0    
TOTALTARGETDAC1UAL       1 121S          il  3033              010         1 4V14
T: TARGBT
P: PASS
F: FAML
S sSTILSTUDYIN0 ABROAD



- 50-
TABLE ISE OFP TARGET/ACrUAL FIEUDS OF STUDY
FOR LPNDs COMPARED
[APAN
7    hD   ||       Gt~~~s ||           BS     u! NOND__
_     - E    r  _T_    TP       r  _         T   P _        F    S    _  _ 
TAfoRFaLDS OFS1UD
tSUUI1tOOPmlY                       -        ---  ----
GDOMAONKflC                                     1 _   _    _   _   _   _    _       2 _
IONOSVIWRIC  s1                  =   =    *          1   2                          I =   =  =   .  .    =
IONOSPIUIUC DATA ALYSIS                                                             a 3
IONOSPtlWERC DISTU1Mu&Aqw^            -
Ofl1CALSOLAftPlYSqIt         1                                                      3
SOlARR.AOD FUYKS                      _
OflalmohNKS                                                                         I
RU1MNMS                                              3   2            13       6    3   3
IAPPUDTAmfl                    I =   =             t I  _ I 2                       1   2
ftama"Tt                         _   =    t  =S      2   s       =   _   _   =1          t _   =
SYSTMANALS                       _        __ 
PLUISMSIAmW                           -        -   -
AERONAU(                               IS                                  1   2    3  20
zEc"^NLENoro~~~ S                                                    .*        1   3   1  
PR2FUU1ON                   I                                                       2
cOmpos1MAPIUAL                                  I        1                          2   tl
AD)EVES AND                      __POSI_                                  _         2
COIMSIWONE_m_                             _          t 1                            2
UchEICHALMLARAOSMEM                                                                 2
lNW1RIALSMOROMI                                                                     2
SOWIAAmRGY                     1 _                                                  2   t
SPACE LAW                                                                           3
*CliplrSaENa                  _ _                 2   2   I  _               I -            
StPtNEAD(STRA_                                                                    2
SoCtNol41CS ~~ ~ ~ ~                                                 3            
2
01trALtAGiA3LYEM AND          1   1         1   1   2   1                           a   3
DIGWALSL111CE -S                                                                   2      
SPAVSPOlEJSYS1W            I
AEBASlR1MlCltY                                                                       I  3 = = = = _ = _ _ = =
I tnnaa ~ -    I                             = =~ =                                    - -           
IMA4IANALVM FOR                 _   _                                              4
MDIUROGCWAL
DATAFU.OG8SIMANAWXISP IO        
cumaiSWMSI m                                    2                           1  1    1 s
D                          114mom  - -- I  I                                      1   10I
ADEUIH3DOPSIUY
I 11 -r TJIC11                                       1   2             2        1        1
| SMNM tY1 _i                                 l    | | | 1l |E 1 1    
I   O-      1UnA                  LI               I   I            __I I 1  
COMiRUCnM  ~ ~    ~     ~    12
AG  MSIU0RQCG               I    I  1     1 1      1  1 1 ILI             I I11   1       31   1- 
L                          1m I    T RY   I           l  I   1                           3
TTALTARXOB                   is                2   1                             1s  I1
! P-  IWA<TLVA$                 1!1                                     1  34  1  
|TOTALTBlM                                                                  31 AS  I
TOrALSmULS1Ult4ABROAD                       4                                                     ai 
WUTLTAIOD1ACnIAL           2_________4__                                          _ ___
T  I TAR=t
P I PASS
P PAL
S t fllLu.SIDY.ROAD



- 51 -
TABLE 18F OFP TARGET/ACMUAL FILDS OF STUDY
FOR LPNDs C!OMPARED
LIP!
.              |   -- PED        il      ~~ ~~~~ ~~~MS   1  BS        g    NON DFXiREE  |
.  _               j ~~~~T |     P |   i t I t I PF I 5    S|P|P|S| T |   I |    I |S|
TARGET VIlS OF Slt                              tI
BIOLOGY                        3         1        2 2   7           4
CIIDMISRY                     It   2         3   12   6             9   4   21  2   13   2
MCRODlLOGY                     s   2   1   1   2   2                          1        4
Gmar s                         9   1                  2
PIWSICRS                       4   1   1   1    a   4                             3    1
OCBAI0PIHY                     2   4   1          2  _                   L
GEOLOGY                        1   3   1   1   6   2   1 1               2                 t    I
C^TlUD8RBlilIG                 1 _   _                 1      _
OBDOGRAIf                      I                  I                                    I
CAI1LaRBRWII                   I 
FOREMTRY                                            1
SOILS3OR4E                                        3
11ORflCULTU1RB                 2                  2
PNAtMAODLOGY,                  I   1              2                 4                  4
OlLSd8NcB                    __    1
j   OOOD TC HNOIAGY            4  .               1   1                                4
!tO1T1iOLOGY                   s   3   1   3    2   7                    2   1   3      I
UINDWThI13EOIOIGIY                  2        1   2   4                   4        4
ivaThUMUfA1IOM                      I             7   3   2
MBCUANI3                       2                  7-t              14S    1  1 
.NHYSQI!NWOWIKflg              2  -   =         =-3    1= = = = = =                  = = = =
cUTER                          1                  0 to   7   3  =        4        I    5   I   I
BtCXINICS                     _    5    1  2   25   a   3           22   7    -9           I   I 
uLfC1ROTSC0OUU                 I   I              a   t1           it              I  21
MEiALLU3GRGYAMTELSCIRA&             2        3    t   8   1              2  =    4=
OODlCHNOLOGY                   I   1                  2   1=
8WN0US_                                =          3
LAW
D_=O_RAPH                                         I                             _
D _GY                         -   _   =         _ I1   3 =   =
IGLymE                                            I
.OOL.OGANJIASSCUR=             17            2    1   4=
LYMNOLOGY                     1t 1                    1 _
MARIMSCURSIBIA                 5   3  _      I    6   5i
MANDSAIIW:                     2 _ _ _            4__ _ _ __                                       _
|^DDDHSAPMSD                     2                                  !1   1      1    1  1  1         1
MANAGUMU                       S   I             t o0   21   3
ADDZD FILDOFST1ZiD?
LUOARY7.1U0SaM NSCl           -  -U    -    I _   -  4  1                         1        I
POUICALsamw    *                    I -    I  -        I         1
O tEUA1lO14BBSSAf              ___    l        -|        l   1 1 __  1 2;
OPOULIYSABRIAR                      I              1  2
011                                                1  21                                  1  _
I  BIRI             lM              I   I I I        I   I 1                1        1 1
SOIAGEJ.L                           I
UWWmuThLA40a
NAUMALRmOURM 
|TOALTARMU                     97           _   1461        J1                         40
IOTALPALBDt                      1                        17DS7 
T:~~~~~~~ WUIET0
=TOALTAROEMACWAL                                  ~1                                     -
T :YTARGUI
IP tASS
P s PAL
3 i SIU.LIUDYNOABROAD



- 52 -
Im DEVELOPING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING
AND MONITORING OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIPS PROGRAMS
The second objective of OFP was "to develop effective policies and procedures for the
implementation and monitoring of overseas fellowship programs". The attainment of this
objective has also been highly successful. This is evidenced by the successful management of
the Science and Technology Manpower Development Program (STMDP) which is also an
overseas fellowship program and the STAID ptogram which combines overseas and domestic
fellowship programs.
It is a truly outstanding fete if one considers the myriad of skills that had to be developed in
order to attain this objective to such a high degree of proficiency. An organization had to be
developed from "ground level" that was capable of developing and implementing recruitment
methodologies, selection tests, predepatture training programs, departure procedures, monitoring
procedures, reentry programs, financial management, and disbursement activities. Further it was
necessary to leam the educational system in 14 different countries in dstail in order to perforn
all of the necessary tasks.
The management of the program was greatly strengthened as the result of a midterm review that
was conducted in June 1987. At that time eight foreign consultants were hired to review every
aspect of the OFP and to make recommendations. The midterm review served as a catalyst to
the OFPIU. All of the recommendations of the midterm review were addressed and resulted in a
more efficient and better managed OFPIU. The value of the midterm review should not be
underestimated. It was an extremely valuable vehicle for providing direction for not only the
OFP, but also the STIDP and STAID program. (See Attachment 1 for more details).
1,
The development of the OFP implementation unit as a tight organizational structure with well
defined tasks has been instrumental to the success of the OFP as well as to the successful
implementation of STAID. The emphasis on managing massive amounts of data through a
computerized data base management system that linked terminals to a mainframe computer was
vital to properly managing the program. The development of written policy manuals and
standard operating pcdurs, monthly management reports, quarterly status reports and
semiannual progress renorts have been instrumental to the OFP and the subsequent
implementation of SIMDP and STAID.
A total of 50 OFPIU staff within BPPT and an equal number of staff within the otber
participating LPNDs have provided approximately 36,700 man months of service to the OFP,
with the great majority of these man-months being provided by the OFPIU staff. This of course
gresatly minimized the cost of the program since the cost of training and paying for additional
qualified staff from outside the government agencies would have been very expensive. The
utilization of technical assistance through local contractors to help with the selection,
monitoring, reentty and disbmsement program as well as with contract development and
implementation was of great assistance. The use of Educational Exchange Offices abroad was of
special help in managing the program abroad. However, it should be emphasized that the
primary reason for the success of the management came from within the OFPIU. The
organizational structure and the performance of all OFPIU staff was the most critical factor in
self-managing the progam.
Techical assistance from Resource Development Consultant (REDECON) was also utilized for
selecton, monitoring and evaluation, and disbutsement services. REDECON personnel worked



- 53 -
side-by-side with FPIU staff in all of their activities. The REDECON M&E staff was
instrumental in the development of the OFP computerized database system and in data support
services as well as in developing and producing the following documents: Monthly Monitoring
Reports, the SRO directory, the OFP Policy Handbook, the OFP Promotioned Booklet, the OFP
Monitoring and Evaluation Procedure Handbook, the SRO procedural Handbook, thie Directions
for utilization of the Fellowship database, the OFP Selection Booklet, the Monitoring and
Evaluation Contracts with EEOs and the monitoring instruments for evaluating students
progress.
The REDECON Disbursement Section also worked as a team with the FPIU disbursement
Section. REDECON was instrumental in developing and implementing a disbursement system
(the direct payment system) which after a period of "working out the kinks" has proven to be
very efficient. The system has provided the OFP disbursement section with accurate records and
very useful monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports.
Two foreign consultants from DLAN Consulting Services also provided4 tecinical assistance to
the Contracts Section and Reentry Section of the FPIU. These services included the developing,
negotiating and processing of contracts, establishing a Reentry database, assisting in the
conducting of interviews and seminars for returnees, developing and writing reports concerning
the status of returnees and assisting in the publishing of the Reentry booklet. More recently, the
Reentry section has been involved in a long term study of OFP Returnees.
The following is a brief description of the development of the various phases of the OFP from its
early stages until its present state. Problems that occurred and the changes that followed are also
described.
a.    Recruitment and Selecton
The OFP recruitment and selection process has improved considerably since the early stages of
OFP. Recruitment announcements for undergraduate programs evolved from a concentration in
Jakarta into a widely advertised process through numerous media sources and through high
schools and agencies in all provinces in the Archipelago. Problems in recruiting participants
outside of Java were addressed in the early stages of the program.
Some of the highlights of the recruitment program include:
o     The number of high schools from outside the major cities of Java that were notified of the
OFP increased dramatically, from 20 to over 3000 between 1985 and 1990.
O     Recruitment for graduate programs solicited participants from within each of the
participating agencies wherever the agencies had offices or activities.
O     The recruitment process was improved with better identification of training needs within
each agency as well as through the OFPIU recruitment process. Supervisors and the
applicants were required to submit training plans.
O     The implementation of a long term manpower needs survey in 1990 which identified
training needs for 2 five year periods (1990 - 1994, 1994 - 1999) contributed greatly to
identifying the pool of applicants for OFP and STAID.



- 54 -
o     The OFPIU developed a well defined set of admission eligibility criteria which were
advertised during the recruitment process. These criteria were further developed for the
STAID program (Refer to Tables IA - IE of 3rd edition of Policy Handbook for current
admission criteria).
O     Improved flexibility in some admission criteria such as age and fields of study have
evolved and have been included in STAID.
Some highlights of the selection test development were:
o     The undergraduate Academic/Aptitude tests were developed based on old SIPENMARU
tests and selected sections of the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT).
O     The graduate Academic/Aptitude tests were developed based on analytical and
quantitative sections of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE).
o     Written psychological tests were developed based on American psychological tests that
have an established record for high validity and reliability.
o     lntefview guidelines to test both psychological and academic readiness were developed.
O     Test sites have increased from 1 to 4 for graduate applicants and from 1 to 9 for
undergraduate applicants (7 outside of Java).
O     An evaluation of the entire selection process was documented in a Selection Booklet in
1988. This booklet raised questions regarding various aspects of the selection process.
Consequently, a study was performed to determine how to increase and improve the pool
of applicants without lowering the academic standards.
O     Based on the evaluation of the selection process the interview phase of the graduate
selection process was deemed inappropriate. It was felt that the psychological and
academic interviews were potentially too subjective. The selection phase was revised as
follows (See Table 19):
Table 19. Selection Phases
Original System                       Revised System
Step 1. Written Academic Test           Step 1. a. Written Academic Test
b. Written Test in Academic
Communication
c. Written Test of Intellectual
Aptitude
Step 2. Written Psychological Test      Step 2. Medical Test
Step 3. a. Psychological Interview
b. Academic Interview
Step 4. Medical Test



- 55 -
In the evaluation of the selection process it was also recommended that the tests be
weighted in favor of the written academic test since there was less chance of grader bias
in the more objective academic test and recent research indicated that psychological tests
were not good indicators of success in studies abroad.
The revised system grouped and weighted the three tests contained in the first step of
selection. The average weighted score for all three tests was then used to determine who
entered the second step of the selection process. The written Academic test that was
utilized in the new system was also utilized in the orginal system. The psychological
tests were replaced by an written test in academic communication and an Intellectual
apptitude test. There was a very conscious attempt made to insure that there was no
lessening of standards in the quality of the tests. Thus far there has been no discemable
differences in acedemic performance between those candidates selected under either
system. In fact, thus far the incompletion rates have been lower for the later batches who
participated in the revised system. The number of eligible graduate candidates in the
OFF program vis a vis the STAID program who have passed all phases of the selection
process has increased under the revised system. (See Table 20). Still it is too early to
make a meaningful analysis since the number of completions among these candidates is
still low. The STAID FPIU is closely monitoring the new system.
TABLE 20
RECAPrrUIATION OF OFP GRADUATE SELECrION
BEFORE AND AFTER REVISING SELECION TESTS
_                            11                    NUMBER WHO         ikU.rU      1
NUMBER          PASSED ALL        PASSING ALL
SELECIION             ELIGIBLE FOR        SELECIION         SELECION
GROUP                  TESTNG              TESTS            TESTS
OFP:  Utaihedongmai        1         594 X____                 _   _
selection system   II         669                147              Zz%
mi 7U7            15u               Z1%
IV         ZY91               58               19%
srTAI: UWiZed new       -            36-                128               35%
selection system                        t
(Indudes OFP               II        389                101               41%b
Applicauts for            III40                l0                         u
Groups V, VI,             IV          11                  6               54%
V         593                314              3z"
The badown of all recruitment and selection for each LPND is included in Tables 20A - 20D.
TABLE 20A
RECAPITULATION OF OFP GRADUATE SEIECnION
FOR GROUP I SELECIION
I  _      ~~~NUMBERWHO       PERCENT I
I  NUMBER       PASSED ALL    PASSINGALL
SELECnION       J EUGIBLE FOR    SELECIION      SELECIION       AVERAGE FOR
GROUP            TESTING         TESTS           TESTS         OFP GROUPS I
.  BAKOS j  ~15              4             27%_   
-  -  AXK-Jl   102-_         39             38%
OPP  GROUP   Pl           121                            54%              41%
I    PS    l       61    ll       31     ll     51%
, WAN-ll   S9 -  1        29  -          49%
UP~ x'I4T    1 0236          58             25%8
_    -  _594 _                     -              , *_
TOTAL   _    ll    594 _gi    226  {r    38%    li 41%



- 56 -
TABLE 2DB
RECAPITULATION OF OFP GRADUATE SELECFION
FOR GROUP II SELECTION
NUMBER WHO    PERCENT
NUMBER    PASSED ALL   PASSING ALL
SELECTION     ELIGIBLE FOR   SELECTION    SELECTION    AVERAGE FOR
GROUP          TESTING      TESTS        TESTS       OFP GROUPS 11
BAKOS       32           4           13%
BATAN  _   3             32          23%
OFP GROUP BPPT        178          38           21_%           17%
11  BPS -         _    __                  %
LAPAN       62          12 ____19N
_LIPI      259           61           24%_             _
TOTAL            669          147           22            17%
TABLE 20C
RECAPITULATION OF OFP GRADUATE SELECTION
FOR GROUP III SELECIION
_ _  _ _ _ r   11 NUMBER WHO    PERCENT
| NUMBER    PASSED ALL   PASSING ALL
SELECrION     ELIGIBLE FOR   SELECrION    SELECTION    AVERAGE FOR
GROUP       [_TESTING       TESTS        TESTS       OFP GROUPS III
BAKOS       38           5           13%
BATAN      171          41           24%
OFP GROUP BPPT        239    [      58          24%            19%
III  BPS        73           15I1         21%
L88AN  88   12           1 i4%--
LIPI        98           19          19%      _  ______
TOTAL                         ISO 707  150  21%           19%
TABLE 20D
RECAPITULATION OF OFP GRADUATE SELECIION
FOR GROUP IV SELECnION
If -       11 NUMBERWHO    PERCENT
NUMBER    PASSED ALL   PASSING ALL
SELECrlON     ELIGIBLE FOR   SELECTION    SELECTION    AVERAGE FOR
GROUP       I__TESTING      TESTS   !   TESTS        OFP GROUPS IV
BAKOS        3            1          33%
BATAN       43            6           14%
OFP GROUP BPPr        139           34          24%            18%
IV  BPS         54            6           11%
ILAPAN 11    0    11           ILII0%
I    I  ILIPi  11    42  11   11   26%
tT TOTAL          IL~J 7IL           58    I      20%           18%



- 57 -
b.    Primary Problems Stlll Existing In the Recruitment/Selection Process
o     Small number of eligible candidates from outside of Java passing undergraduate testing
o     Small percentage of women applicants and participants
o     Small number of eligible graduate applicants
o     Percentage of applicants selected as participants unevenly distributed among the
participating agencies.
O     Small number of industrial training participants
o     Although the low failure rate for all batches indicates a very good selection process, there
has been no formal statistical study performed to establish the validity and reliability of
the various tests.
o     Age criteria for admission to some programs restricts the potential pool of applicants
o     Prerequisite education requirements for industrial training restricts perticipants to holders
of at least an SI degree.
C.    Placement
The OFP has been very successfil in placing students in a variety of Countries. This was
especially important in order to develop foreign links with universities and other research
institutes.
Table 7A of this report reflects the total number and percentage of students placed in each
country. A total of 14 countries were utilized with the highest percentage being placed in Japan.
Placement of undergraduate students in most countries was relatively easy, however placing
graduate students in English speaking countries sometimes proved difficult since English
language tests such as the TOEFE and IELTS needed to be passed before placement was
possible. The duration of English language training in the predeparture program sometimes
proved to be insufficient for the graduate students to pass the language tests required for
placement. To improve this situation graduate selection was perfcrmed earlier in the later OFP
batches and in the STAID program thus allowing more time for language study. The length of
language study for undergraduate students did not prove to be a problem in placement.
The process of placement involved the use of Educational Exchange Organizations in each
country. Listed below are EEOs for each country.
America        : The Institute of International Education Inc. (lIE), later replaced by DLAN
International Placement Services.
United Kingdom : The British Council.



- 58 -
Australia     : International Development Programn of Australian Universities and Colleges
(IDP).
Canada        : World University Service of Canada (WUSC).
Gennany       : 1. Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD).
2. Carl Duisberg Centren (CDC).
Holland       : TU  Delft, Delft University of Technology, Netherlands Universities
Foundation for International Cooperation (NUFFIC).
France        : 1. D'Etudes sur les Formations D'Ingenieurs (CEFI).
2. SociWt6 Francaise D'Exportation Des Ressources Educatives (SFERE).
Japan         : Japan Indonesia Forum (JIF).
Austria       : Osterreichischer Auslandsstudentendienst (OAD).
These organizations performed the following tasks to varying degrees:
1. identified universities that matched the program of study to be pursued by
each student.
2. arranged placement at the universities
3. arranged for proper travel documents
4. arranged for pre-university training abroad
5. assisted in arranging for housing
6. monitored students abroad & provided semiannual reports to OFPIU
o     The utilization of the EEOs proved to be very cost effective as well as efficient in almost
all countries although the EEO costs in Japan and France are a bit too high.
O     Generally, the EEOs have done a good job of placing students. This is reflected in the
number of students placed at universities with good reputations throughout the world.
o     One EEO (IIE) was replaced in the United States by DIAN since the OFPIU felt that
more personal attention to placement could be provided by a smaller agetncy. However,
DlANs' lack of experience in placement and making contacts with universities and its
small non American staff presented some problems.
o     The monitoring of students by the EEOs has been a significant help to the Student
Relation Officer Section and the Monitoring and Evaluation Section. However, EEOs
have been late in the submission of the monitoring reports, especially the EEOs from
Germany and Japan.



- 59 -
o     The establishment of long term ties with EEOs through the OFP has been of significant
help in the implementation of STAID and should simplify the implementation of future
programs. A well developed implementation unit in Indonesia as well as a well
developed, long established support system abroad is now in place and operating.
d.    Analysis of EEO Performance
Comments from students regarding various aspects of EEO performance have been routinely
documented in the OFP Progress Reports. Since the completion of the OFP a survey was
conducted to analyze EEO performance. Questionnaires regarding EEO performance were
developed and distributed to a small sample of returnees (3 per country) as well as members of
the monitoring team (3 per country) who visited each country, SRO coordinators, (1 per country)
Contract Section personnel (1 per country) and FPIU mid level managers (9). All of the
aforementioned respondents have had varying degrees of contact with the EEOs. The survey
inastrment consisted of five (5) catagories of questions: 1) range of services, 2) degree of
responsibility, 3) responsiveness to needs, 4) level of efficiency and effectiveness and 5)
professional qualities. A four-point rating scale was employed for each question: "excellant,"
"good", "fair" and "poor". Also, an open ended question was included after each catagory to
invite suggestions for improvement by the respondent. The number of positive responses (4 and
3) and negative responses (2 and 1) for each EEO were then totaled. Then the EEOs were
ranked based on total number of positive and negative responses (See Table 21A and 21B).
JIF     - In general JIF was rated good (3) by all respondents. They excelled in meeting
fellows' needs with a good sense of responsibility carried out by an efficient and
effective team of professionals in Japan. In various monitoring team reports,
monitoring team members have noted that one particular member of the JIF
team, Mr. Hatakeyama, was extremely helpful to all the students. However, JIF
was deficient in one important area; they seldom sent in their semi-annual
academic monitoring reports, and if so, always late. The management group
also emphasized the need for a representative JIF office in Jakarta to enhance
communications.
MDP    - The general response to IDP's overall performance was average (between 2 & 3
or fair & good). Monitoring trip reports have also tended to produce an equal
number of good and bad comments. The Management Group rated them more
positively (good) but suggested a permanent contact person be appointed and
that procedures between Jakarta and Canberra be simplified to solve problems
more quickly.
DA4N   - In general DI4N's performance was rated below average (between 2 and 1 or
fair to poor). Reasons given for the higher number of negative responses from
the midlevel managers group included: slow response time, tardiness with
reports, placement activities and monitoring. It is felt that their lack of a native
Amecraii on their local and foreign office staff is counterproductive since they
are representing the U.S. and need better communication skills when dealing
with Americans.
LbE     -  The general response to lIEs performance was fair or average (2) while the
Management Group rated them good (3). Their large American staff and long
experience in placing foreign students in American universities was probably a



- 60 -
positive factor, however one management respondent noted that IlEs' enarmnous
size sometimes resulted in an impersonal approach to setvices. It was this issue
that originally convenced the OFPIU to try another EEO.
CDC    - The ratings given for CDCs performance were generally negative (I's & 2's)
with only the Contract Section being positive (3). The Management Group
considered CDC services average. They observed that CDC is not professional
and needs to improve. Also, communication between the CDC office in Jakarta
and overseas is not good. This may be due to the fact that they have no
Germans working in their Jakarta office.
DAAD   - All respondents, except for one individual, agreed that DAAD's performance
was below average, between unsatisfactory & fair (1&2). No comments were
included in the survey however comments from monitoring reports have
indicated that dissatisfaction with EEO monitoring reports were a major
problem.
BC      - The general response to BCs performance on the survey was generally average
kbetween 2 and 3) before the Management Group was surveyed. Management
was overwhelmingly positive toward BCs services thus bringing their rating to
above averagu. The very cooperative British Council staff in Jakarta as well as
their cooperative spirit in London accounts for their strong rating.
OAD    - Ratings given by Management for OAD's for performance was much higher
(very good) than for the three other groups surveyed (average). One group
(Retumees) gave no response (perhaps because returnees from Austria were too
difficult to locate). It was suggested OAD have an office in Jakarta to improve
communications between FPIU & the fellows for efficiency and effectiveness.
SFERE - The respondent groups rated SFERE's performance average, equally between
positive and negative comments with the Management respondents much more
positive, including some 4's. No comments were given but it is thought that the
local staff has been very professional.
WUSC  - In general all respondents rated WUSC with either good (3) or excellant (4).
Comments from monitorng teams who visited Canada have always been most
complimentary of WUSC
,NVFFIC- In general, NUFFICs performance was considered average and needing
improvement although some areas were carried out well. Their reports were
generally considered good albeit submitted late. Their staff in Holland was
considered very helpfiul but it was mentioned that their Jakarta office needed
'beefing up."
The following list gives the number of responses for each EEO showing results of the first
four groups of respondents (ie. returnees, monitoring team SRO coordinators and contract
section personnel) on the first line and the results of the mid level management group on the
second line followed by the total number of respoDSes identified as positive (4 &3) or
negative (2 & 1):



- 61 -
TABLE 21A
SUMMARY OF RESPONSES IN EEO PERFORMANCE SURVEY
COUNTRY                  EEO:        NO. POSITIVE    &  NO. NEGATIVE
USA                                          .         31        ._
*6         
I    ___ ____   iii37      147
USA                              IIE                   16        ] 2       34
.             .                        ~~~~~~~~~~~41         37
UK                               BC                    53                  36
822                  42
CANADA                           WuSC                  56                   5
.~~~~~8                               6
AUSTRALIA                       JJDP                   67        153
19 2
_____  I _ _________86   J                63
IGERMANY                         |CDC        11        20                   49
36                  65
GERMANY                           DAAD                 19                   37
I                                1_____________________________ 1  -____ _  1 3  3   11 __1 2_2   1
NUFFIC               35                   44
I   .              11          11       M7~~~~~~~2 11016
47                  60
FRANCE                           SFERE                 451                  60
JAPAN                           1        .             964       j          64
|JAPAN                          ||JIF                 109                   19
I  11   11  127  11   30
~AUSTRIAOA                                              53
2 1L1  9    11  I38
Number of Management Group Responscs



- 62 -
TABL8 21B
RANKNG OF E3E0 PERFORMANCE
Total Responses (+ &-) for eacb EEO:
r       Positive    Negative          Ratio of Positive     Ranking
EEO          (+)         (-)            Positive to Negative     of
1. WUSC           8S           6               14.0:   1.0             1
2. JIF           127           30              4.0:   1.0              2
3. BC             82           42       =       2.0  :   1.0           3
4. DP             86           63               1.4:   1.0             4
5. uIE            41           37       =       1.1:   1.0             5
6. SFERE    .     64           64       =       1.0:   1.0             6
7. NUFFIC         47           60       -       1.0:   1.3             7
8. DIAN           37           47       =       1.0:   1.3             9
9. DAAD           33           59               1.0:   1.8            10
10O CDC            36          64       *       1.0      1.8          11
Based on the number of responses obtained from the Management Group (9 persons) and
their "overall" pemspective of EEO performance the rating scale above was weighed
toward Management's perceptions.
e     Cost Effectiveness of EEO Monitoing and Placement Services.
An attempt was made to analyze the cost effectiveness of EEOs based on per student costs. This
analysis is complicated by the multitude of variables that exist since each year there are
variations in each country, i.e, number of universities, type of services needed and country-
specific requirements.
In reviewing this analysis there are several factors and assumptions that should be kept in mind:
(1)   In the case of Table 22Aand 22B, the analysis included only student placement
costs for one year and monitoring costs for the average number of years required
to complete either program 3 or 2B or program 2A in that bountry. The total
placement and monitoring costs were then compared to the total cost of the
program in each respective country. The EEO cost was calculated as a percentage
of the total program cost (See Table 22A and 22B).
(2)   The tables are for costs at only one point in time (1991). In fact, EEO costs have
increased over a period of time for any group of students. Thus, the costs for
1991 are high compared to 1985, the first year of placement.



- 63- \
(3)   The tables do not consider changes in inilation and exchange rates over the period
of the loan.
(4)   The tables do not account for the number of students vis a vis costs being placed
in each country or the number of universities.
(5)   The tables do not reflect that in some countries there was no tuition charge for
foreign students.
(6)   The total average cost/student/country (column IV) includes all costs, including
EEO services such as management fees, orientation fees etc, however the items in
column I and II only account for placement & monitoring.
Based on the cost analysis shown in Table 22A and 22B none of the EEO's costs are considered
excessive since they range from a high of 7.0 percent to a low of 2.9 percent. The three highest
costs for program 2B and 3 included France (7.0%o), Japan (6.6%) and Australia (6.1%) while the
three highest cost countries for program v. included France (7.8%io), US (6.8%) and Japan
(6.4%).
IN one compares the total EEO costs in all countries ($ 4,045,662) to the total cost of study
abroad during the period January 1988 to March 1993 ($ 68,036,558), EEO costs represent
only 5.9% of the total costs.
Since the EEO costs seem reasonable, the question of their effectivenees lies in the results of
their perfomance. Based on the perfonnance survey results, it is apparent that in particular
those EEOs receiving more negative than positive responses, need to make improvements in
their services. In future fellowship program negotiations (contract renewals) it will be important
to work with these EEOs using the survey findings as a gauge for recommendations to each EEO
in order to maximize their effectiveness and efficiency. The alternative would be to identify
other EEOs that would satisfy the fellowsip service needs.
TABLE 22A
EEO COSl OF ACADEMIC PLACMEMT AND MONITORING
FOR PROGRAMS 3 AND 20 AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL COSIT
_  I          ,r1  x    IC  U  Ski.   AnsUIUKenbt_    A_Iy  FMP=t  Hound   J    1
No.  Cm_"sdgB_ ___litCoud  DIANL JM                   DAAD || SF5R3    ncIL   |  IP  |
COWUS01_ _          450             64S 53 4S71            1,179     5U3    1,7
U  MoaiozingCOa             1 l                            1
Stldstffor no of yon  3,2   5,M0   S,040   4,5    3,0    6,S    1,188    7,320
quied to omplot   (aUxq    (=lXe    (26X4)  (1142X   (=X6   (127Xn   (OSX6)  (14"XX)
othewpom3w25 ______ 3          _  _
M                                                      -cadic  -             -1
gPlacent and      4,042    5,693   5,139   3,3    7,534   1,711 [ 8,698
I   ]MoultotgCost/l 
WVotuW Aveaag Cost ii                               f -      [      [       r
| |uDforst*Dool ||125,383   95 || 95M    84|29 ||81,023  106        58,S410 ||131,0 9
,  ~c v-.fe l1l                  1     -    - r - l  -              -       -
aYezag.d8"%o met  .226 1 5.9*  51 .99    6.1*  1486*  71 .0*E1 29*9  616*6
tmJ CC I&va8Yt 1      _    l       l       1       1      1        1
MT_ =" j1 Acad_e1_t _  _t .................... _ _*_0-_ *i  ............................. t__ oAc



- 64 -
TABLE 22B
EEO COSr OF ACADEMIC PIACEMENT AND MONITORING-
FOR PROGRAM 2A AS. A PERCENT OF TOT'AL COST
Cll Ir ~fU                     DCdSXt      Ia G= my  IF I PI
[41L    Coma" and EEO  |IBiddl CounclI  DLAN  MFS               IP   )D^AD  11SFEB|    C    1S
I )  USJc dent             450         64l        653       571        .         1,179       .    |   1,378
It  Monitoring Cost/                       ,                     ..
Student/for no of years   2,245       3,780     3,780      3,426                 3,813                3,660
|tequied to complete    .M23        (1260 X     tbx 3uax III X                 (s)x  1142X3)
o_ other Program ZA _    I_I_1_11           1
___ iMofltoring costt   11                        1           __ ILJI             If        If
_ _ Student             _ _ _ _ _ _                         _ _ _ _Ji
IV  Total Average Cost  ||
sustut7                                        63,SS0 s g  62,241               63,671               78,712
elach country                         I        IL                  LII LI
V   EMcost ofAcdmiclf1                             r        1          11                    F1
| Placementand
| Monitouingasa%of       3.7%         6.7%      6.89%      6.4%                 7.8%   |              6.4%
total average cost
* Only Academic Plaement acd Monitoring Costs wee induded in the Cast effediveess study aim tis was the only
commoa cost charged by all EEOs. There is no program 2A in Germany and oloUand.



_ 65 -
Finally, the following comments from the respondents have been included as suggestions to all
EEOs in futute programs:
From Students/Returnees:
1. Improve preparations for admission to institutions
2. Provide EEO representatives in each city where students are enrolled
3. Improve informal contacts with academic advisors
4. Conduct regular and periodic monitoring
5. Give immediate response for emergencies.
From Country Coordinators:
1. Send academic reports every quarter
2. Systematize academic reporting (proper format)
From Contract Section:
1. Provide more assistance in completion of contracts
2. Provide accurate academic and financial reports on time
3. Distribute student allowances through EEO coordinator
From Monitoring Team members:
1. Become more professional (trained personnel and modern equipment)
2. Maintain closer contact with students, universities and monitoring team.
From Midlevel Management Respondents:
1.' All EEO should have foreign and domestic offices staffed with native speakers who have a
thorough knowledge of the education system in that country
2. Local offices should be equipped to respond quickly
3. An effective EEO must have qualified, professional staff operating in a well equipped office
with adequate (high tech) communications equipment. These essentials must also be
accompanied by the capacity for a broad range of services and a keen sense of responsibility
to carry .out their tasks in meeting both students' needs and FPIU requirements. These
requirements must be spelled out in the contracts eventhough it is impossible to include
every detail. Thus, EEO's must be carefully selected with these characteristics in mind if the
FPIU is to get its money's worth.
f     Predeparture Training
The predeparture training program consists of language training for all students and basic
science and math training and government service training (prajabatan) for undergraduates. The
language training program is described in Table 23. The basic science program which was held
12 hours per week was added to the predeparture program to help undergraduate students bridge
the gap for any deficiencies they might have in math, physics and chemistry.



TABLE 23
PREDEPARTURE LANGUAGE TRAINING PROGRAM
r11  ii  HOURS/WEEK                      DURATION                      MONTH
OF                                OF                          OF
NO.    LANGUAGE               SCHOOL                  TR.AINING                         TRAINING                   DEPARTURE
1.  English           School for laternational    UGR    : 34 hours/weck   UGR :AUSSIE:  3.5  Months            Depart Fcbruary
Training                                                    UK        : 5.5  Months       Depart April
USA      : 8   Months         Depart Juni
GR      : 36 bours/week     GR   : AUSSIE  : 6   Months          Depart February
UK       :11   Months        Depart Juni/iuli
USA      : 1I    Months      Depart JunilJuli
2     nGerman        [Goethe Institute      1 UGR    : 30 bours/week       UGR                 5   Montbs       Depart April
GR      : 30 hours/week     GR                  5.5  Months      Depart February
D   Dutch           JErasmus Huis           if           30 hoursAveek     UGR                 S   Months       Depart April
4.      cFrencb Cultural Center                          30 hours/veek     UGR                 4   Months       Depart April
GR                  5   Montbs      IDepar April
5l  Japanese           Pusat Bahasa Jepang    [           30 bouts/week     UGR:                5   Months       Depant April
(Japanese Foundation)  ||
___________ |Tokyo Nihongo Gakuin  [                30 boutsAveek     GR   :              8   Months   1 Depart April



- 67-
The following factors should be considered regarding the language training program and basic
science program:
o    The duration and intensity of language training for undergraduates has generally proven
to be sufficient for all English speaking countries except Australia. However as
mentioned in the previous section, this has not always proven to be the case with
graduate participants. The English language training program was moved to the School
for Intemational Training after the first year of the program. This has proven to be a
satisfactory move. Language Training hours have been increased for STAID graduate
students.
o    The local Japanese language training has been sufficient for all programs since students
study Japanese for an additional year upon afrival in Japan. The local Japanese language
training program includes two schools. The first school, Pusat Bahasa Jepang, is
provided by the Japan Foundation. The second, Tokyo Nihongo Gakuin, a private
language school, was needed in order to keep the class size at an acceptable level.
MThe French, German and Dutch language schools have provided adequate language
training, however the need for additional language training prior to departure has been a
common complaint. Unfortunately, this has not been possible due to the necessary early
departure date for students who will study in these countries.
O    All of the language schools have been extremely helpful in providing special tutoring to
students when necessary.
O    A common problem of the language program was detected early in the OFP and
subsequently efforts were made to remedy the situation. The problem involved the
temporary calling back of language training participants to their agencies for job related
tasks. The OFP developed a policy regarding this matter such that agencies were
required to release all participants from their previous jobs while in language training.
Further, participants were not paid their daily allowance for unexcused absences and
more than S absences would result in removal from the program.
o     Based on the high success rate of OFP students the predeparture language program must
be deemed successful.
O    The long term relationship that has developed between the language schools and the
OFPIU greatly expedited the implementation of follow-up fellowship programs. This
continued relationship should prove helpful to future fellowship programs.
O     The basic science program has froven to be very beneficial and has not presented any
special problems.
In addition to the predeparture training program, the predeparture orientation program has
proven to be very valuable. In the early days of OFP the predeparture orientation was deemed
Inadequate, therefore a predeparture orientation committee revamped the program. Among the
highlights of the program are:
o     Two predeparture odientation seminars conducted by the EEO's from each
oountrv The first seminar is of a general nature and is held within 2 months after



- 68 -
selection. The second seminar is held 1 month prior to departure and addresses
the details of housing, university attendance, initial arrival, etc.
O     An orientation seminar on 'culture shock", that deals with problems abroad,
motivation, time management, etc. is conducted by an Indonesian non-profit
organization, Bina Antar Budaya, a non profit organization that specializes in the
area of studying abroad.
o     Orientation sessions by the PIU are conducted shortly after selection and just
prior to departure that describe OFP policies, procedures, countries of study,
fields of study etc.
O     The distribution of a country specific predeparture booklet that provides
information about studying in each country. This book was developed by the
OFPIU in response to the OFP students' need and has subsequently been used by
the STMDP and STAID. Among the numerous items contain in the booklet
are:
0     Programs of study abroad
=     Systems of Education in each country
o     Communications with Indonesia while abroad
o     Fnancial Systems in each country of study
o     Departure information
o     Medical information for each country of study
o     Acoommodations abroad
o     Ideological, political and social matters
o     Reentry matters
g.    Monitoring and Evaluatlon
The monitoring and Evaluation of the OFP Students and the OFP general operations was carried
out in sveral ways:
1.    OFPIU Student Relation Officers were assigned to act as "surrogate parent' to a group of
about 40 students. Each SRO monitored his1her students during predeparture training
and after the student was abroad. A total of 36 SROs were utilized for OFP. This
number has doubled with the inclusion of STAID.
2.   The Educational Excge Office in each country was contracted to provide semiannual
progress reports to the OFPIU. The monitoring and evaluation section provided
guidelines to the EEOs as to what data was needed in these reports.



- 69 
3.    Monitoring Teams were sent to each country twice a year to meet with students,
professor and EEOs.
4.    Students were required to send standardized quarterly report forms on which they were to
report their progress and problems. The development of these standardized forms was a
major effort of the monitoring and evaluation section and the database management team.
5.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Section of the OFP produced monthly reports based on
data provided by each SRO the students and the EEOs, a semiannual directory that
updated the status of all students, a semiannual progress report that summarized progress
and problems regarding students, finances and program administration by each section of
the OFPIU.
The combination of all of the above monitoring methodologies has provided the OFPIU with
sufficient information to determine if a student was having problems or making sufficier.t
progress.
The major problems incurred in monitoring the students were as follows:
o    The education system in each country and sometimes each university varied. If students
did not explain the system and provide information regarding their total program,
monitoring their progress was difficult. This problem has been partially solved by
requiring such information ftom each student on his first quarterly report.
o    Some students were late with their quarterly reports or neglected to send them. This
problem was reduced by creating a policy that allowed the OFPIU to stop payment of
allowances if a student was delinquent in sending reports.
O     Some students did not provide enough information, consequently the SRO or the EEO
was required to contact the student or university representative.
O     Some universities would not release information to the OFPIU or the EEO, but only to
the student.
o     Only part of the data from the current academic monitoring quarterly report form can be
input into the computer and subsequently utilized for generating reports and determining
academic status. Another academic monitoring form has also been developed for each
country which could possibly be more efficient, however the manpower and equipment
requirements are not yet available.
The major problems discussed by the students either in quarterly reports or when they were
visited by the monitoring team were as follows:
o     Late receipt of allowances - this was particularly true in the early years of the OFP. As
REDECON gained more experience with the disbursement system the number of
complaints decreased dramatically.
O     Complaints were frequently expressed that the vacation time in Indonesia that was
Denmitted by OFPIU Policy was inadequate (3 weeks after 2 years abroad).



- 70 -
o     In the fitst batch some of the undergraduate students were not recent high school
graduates. ConsequeiMly there were more requests for permission to marry. This
problem was eventually olved by a lower age limit for undergraduates and requiring that
they agree not to marry while still studying abroad.
O     Undergraduate students who studied in Holland complained that the Indonesian
Department of Education did not certify their degree as equivalent to a Masters degree in
Indonesia.
o     The first batch of students complained that they received little information from their
directorate.
While some of these complaints were not solvable, still the great majority of complaints were
addressed and solved to the mutual satisfaction of all parties.
IL    Finance and Contacts Administration
* Disbursements
Since the beginning of the OFP until the present a total of US $ 92,986,961.23, or 99.9% of the
original loan of US $ 93,000,000 has been disbursed from the IBRD Washington loan account.
(See Table 24).



TABLE 24
LSr OF DISBURSEMENT FROM THE WORLD BANK
FOR LOAN NO. 2S99-IND, NOVEMBER 1985 - JUNE 1992
_A_                           _ .        Anaguol Requcd Omn peica          AM t Dab6xed    Csteo I            Ca.B     2     Cas  3 
No.       Dat fo SubIois                (Rupmal)            (US S)        IB3R  (USS) EOV.  (S) EQV.   (IS) EOV.   (USS) EOV.                         _
lrTALLWAN                     ___ 9o  .0_0...                                                                         __.__
__    FYt 19851986                   __          _    _     _     _    _    _         __               _ __                        __         _ __      _     _     _
I   NOYEM                   1995      855755,403.21                             766,59.0       607.50.01                     t59,090.79  DIP PP     BTU8586
2   DECMBER                 1965      30&322,91735                              274.45245      25686.50                       17,585.95 REIMBUtSEMENT
3   JANUARY                 1986      298.975,802.52                            265,402.40     233.47874   _,                 31,923.66             IDEM
4   FEBRUARY                1966      211,552411.30                             1885896        95217.58                      93,37228               IDEM
IUTLFY 1995/A966                                                          149 4tS    193,06W                   00       301t96
FY 1986(1987                                                         __       __ .  ._.                                          _..,
S   APRIL                   1966      514.61S 95934                             448270.11      18,498.53                     259,7718                U)EM
6   MAY                     t936    1.1,953,t33.13   '.                       1,284947.77    1.071,1935        13,256.54     200Q5718  DIP BPPT`BATTAN.BACSD
7   JUNE                   9I86       291.110,42431 I                                                                   I_I
8   JULY                    1986      550,437,828.28                            48S.81.26      479.23129                       6,619.97 BPSLAPAN.UPI S7
9   IJLY                    1986      438,096,011.88                            386,941.63     386941.63                                            IDEM
10  SEVIEMUER               1986      727,918.407.08                            470,770.29     391.648.03                     79,122.26               UIPE
I1t  OCTOER                 1986      728,68.407.08                             446,78810      446.499.62         2884S                             IDEM
t2   NOVEMBER               1986  - 1.54515,59.83                             639,875.97     639,875.97                                            IDEM
t3   DECEMBER               1966     ,038,806,7036                            12S,801.67    LOS1.5S1.67                      199,20O                 IDEM
t4   MARCH 14,              1987    1,178314,06081                              715.411.0      715,411.00        -                                    EM
IS   MARCH 23,              1987    1,601.4S3,329.41                            979.42.16      934.52436        487.216       40,370.4               IDEM
_   TALFY 198611967                                 _7,109,139.96    6,305.301.45                           ,32.18      785,033



TABLE 24
LUST OF DISBURSEMENT FROM THE WORLD BANK
FOR LOAN NO. 2599-IND, NOVEMBER 1985 - UNE 192
_                                        Amount Requested (mm PeoJed       Amount Disbuned    Cawtgo.y I       Caegow 2       Casu:y 3                Rest
NO.       Date of Submission                                (US S)        IBRD (USS) EOV.  (USS) EOV.   (USS) EOV.   (USS) EOV.
FY 1987_ 
16  APRIL 16,               1987  t,513,595,325.63                              92S.038.62     92S.038.62                                            IDEM
17  MAY 7,                  19S7    2,09684Z1SS.93                            1.277.004.96    1.277,004.96                                           IDEM
18  MAY 14,                 1987    3,S17,56441&16                           2159,713.56    2,t59.71356                                             IDEM
19  MAY 20,                 1987     1,210332,715.00                            737,558.02     606,93932        1.204.08     129,414.62             IDEM
20  JULY ?                  1987      785,t8,130.47                             477,811.04     387.026.94                     90,784.10 DIP 861S7 & DIP S7/88
21   AUGUST IB.             1987    2.157,098,387.20                           1,316.1t6.06    1.316,116.06                                          IDEM
22  OCTOBER 2              1987    1,719,220,637.27                           L      311213.21    1,112,103.21                                      IDEU 
23  NOPEMBER 11,            1987     1569,383.138.81                            957,013.84     873.376.90                     83,636.94             IDEM
24   DECEMBER 14,           1987                            9,139.057.03      9.139.057.03    9.1 39.057.03                             IDEM (DIRECTIPAYMENT)
25  JANUARY 21,             1988      487,324,00.00                             294,100.48     294,100.48                               IDEM(DIRECTPAYME.NT)
26  FEBRUARY                1938    2.339144.629.61                            1.714.459.24    1,714.459.24                             REIMBURSEMENT
27  MARCH 25.               1938       153.110.500.00                            9L068.86                                     9,063.86 DIRECT PAYMENT
lOTALFY t987f988                                                        20,205,044.92   19,807,936.32      120408       395,904.52
FY t98811969 9                                                                                                       _              ___
28   MAY 11.                1988    6,147,606,684.08                          3,678998.39    3,663.281.77                      15,716.62 REIMBURSEMENT
29   WNE 23,                1988                           11.941,946.99     11,941,946.98   11.941.946.98                     _         DIRECT PAYMENT
30  JULY 18,                1988      547.8S0,960.01                            329,028.51     329,02851          _                     REIMBURSEMENT
31   AUGUST9,               1988       152,570,000.00                            89,55.70           _  _       __             39,593.70 DIRECT PAYMENT
32  NOVEMBER 29,            1988       91,542,000.00                             53,067S3                                     53.067.83 DIRECTPAYMENT
33  JANUARY 16,             1989                           11,277,126.41     11,301,50938   10,779,185.12               _    522,324.26 DIRECTPAYMENT
34  JANUARY, 31             1989       61,028,000.00                             35,180.09                             _      35,180.09 DIRECTPAYMENT
35   MARCH, 2               19S9       69,755,237.50                             40.02637                      40.02637                 DIRECTPAYMENT
36   MARCH. 30              19S9      34t.767.492.26                            193.346.15     193,346.15                               REIMBURSEMENT
ITTALFY 198811989                                                       27,662.699.40  2Y,906,7883        40,0263       715,884M.0



TABLE 24
UST OF DISBURSEMENT FROM THE WORLD BANK
FOR LOAN NO. 2599-IND, NOVEMBER 1985 - JUNE 1992
App^Cc                                Auo    Requcsted (bm Pnmjca     Ana tDisbutsd   Caugty I         Caiegory 2    Caegory 3              Remark
No.      Dai of Submission           (RUS b)             JS)        IBRD OM) EQV.  (USS) EQV.   (USS) EQV.  (tUSS) EOV.
_ FY t98_990             _                                                       
37  SEPr. 11              1969                         176..00          10.24665.t0   10.240,665.10                            DIRECr PAYMENT
38  SEPT. tl              1989       8I,5a,w.00                             45.656.96                                 45,65696 DIRECTPAYMENT
39  NOVEMBER. 20          1989       81.50000.00                            45,796.5                                  45,796.95 DIRECTPAYMENT
40  MARCH 12.             t990      150.39lO,                               82,946.6                    82.946.66 _            BINAK KARTYASA P. (DP)
41  MAR01 14.             1990       76,500.00000                           4Z361.22                    4Z361.21               DUTA BA N. (DP)
42  MARCH 19.             1990      163.000.000.00                         89.33164                                   89.3314 FEE RDC DIR. PAYMENT
43  MARCH 2L              1990                         11,375,733.00    11,375,733.00  10773,597.24                  60_2,35.76 FEE RDC DIR. PAYMENT
TAL_FY_198_ 990___                                                 2L922,49L53   21.014.26234     125s30788     782,92131
- FY  19901t991_ _ 
44  JIJU                - 1990      150.1 It,933.24 _84339.24                             84339.24                             REIMBURSEMENT
45   OCBt 14              1990 __  3.424.062.00                           424,062.00    3,424.062.00           _  _            DIRPAYMENT REDECON
46  OCTrOBER 10.          1990      14S,000000.00                           79,3557                                   79,356.57 FEE RDC DIR PAYMENT
47  NOVEMBER 26.          1990       74,000.000.00                 -       3957.29                       .            3925729 FEE RDC DIR PAYMENT
48  FEBRUARY 11.          t991      163,050000.00                          85,970.27                    85.970.27              PT.TRI PUTI AYUMAS
49  MARC8023. 1991                        __023f00                       8,030743.13    7,13L996.66                  897,74647 DIR PAYMENTREDECN
lCITALFY 1990/99t                                                  11,7437250   10.641,3W.90       49702       1,0160__
F\r 199IA992..._.'.
50  APRIL2,               1991       74,0000000                            3k 13                                      38,384.13 I fEE RDC DIR PAYMENT
51  DECEMBER 27.          IVA                           2,o600,055       2,602697.23    151.222.61                   451,474.62 D;PPAYMENTFK.nECON
52  DECEMSBER V.7 IW       I 91     22 S.2529.00                          t10,4235                                   1103,235OS FEE3PTREDECON
53  MARC0 31,             1992       71541,7so.00                          36681S6                                      691.8  FEE Pt REDECNN
llMTALFYI"A t99Vt992                                                t7St8           t                  QOO      636.9OA6
_ FY 19921t93           ' 
S4 1992I                            121.39.630.00                          60.62914          ^6t69.14                          PT.BERAT SION SENTOA
WMTALDS ULv3a                           9 s_x1"  likOWS411,411    179%96123   8019%7.98          331.9.92    4.M73.3
_ _IXDII~364ANCE  U,131_  -_  y_



- 74 -
There was no balance remaining in the REDECON disbursement account on May 30, 1993. (See
Table 25).
TABLE 25
MONIES RECEIVED, REQUESTED AND DISBURSED
THROUGH THE REDECON ACCOUNT
FP.OM APRIL 1,1992 THROUGH JANUARY 31,1993
Beginning RBtance Ap.il 1. 1992                                                   IUSS   2,237,452.88
Reeved fics Woild Bank                                                            USS           0.00
US$   2,237.452.88
MoWal d iyburaemnt Apdl 1992-Jnuay 1993
Net Paid              Paid              Ratwrn
- Apil               1992           151,523.28
-May                 1992           113,042.71
*J*                 m1992          491,887.54
-JuIy                1992          657,079.52
-Aupgut              1992          (25,662.81)   ( 34,658.69   -   60,321.50 )
-Spme                1992            19.410.00
-Ocbe                1992         (400,943.59)   (49.990.72   -  450,934.31 )
-November            1992           (1.179.72)   (  3,920.28           5,100.00)
-Decemer             1992         1,2Z,360.35
-Januay              1993          (34,608.32)   (  1,687.92   -    36,296.24 )
Total di_buUSta:t                                                                 USS   2,195,908.96
Balse Jauary3   1993                                                              USS       41.543.92
MontWly dibuammnts F_buy 1993-April
-Febnsy 1993                          1,583.27
-Ma-.b 1993                          35,415.00
-Apil 1993 (inced Augun 19            1.353.49
-May 1993 (mcaindFY1988W19            3,192.16
Total d_abuumst                                                                   uSS      41,543.92
BalmaceMay 31, 1993                                                             us$             0.00



- 75 -
The average unit cost for all fellowship programs in each country is contained in Table 26.
The most expensive country was Japan. The OFPIU has felt that the education received in Japan
is well worth the cost. The quality is very good and it is extremely important to develop close
ties with Japan since it is the most developed country in Asia and a world leader, especially in
Asia. The strengthening of ties with Japan is critical to Indonesian development.
TABLE 26
UNIT COST BY COUNTRY AND PROGRAM IN US DOLLARS
I  I _ _                  PROGRAM_ _                 _
COUNTRY           P1I       P2A   |  P2B         P3   TPA            P4B
USA                     80I01i1   6 3,554              95,836    .     .44I559
CANAI)A                 61,467    47,685 .       . ___74 928               33,572
IUK                IF  92,381 J   73,078 _            125,383    44,215     49.420|
RMNY                    61,45                  023 0  33     28,736        25,I95
NETHERLANDS             73,747 |______      58,410               27,393    23,219
|FRANCE                 86,416 |  63,671  | 106,870 [;.        . . -i [   41,125
JAPAN               I  114,786 |    78,7i2         [  131,0891   51,523    49,518
[AUSTRALIA        11  87,638     62,241 |::| 84,249                        3 : |   36,828
|AUSTRIA           1    646|-          VI 87,779 |:-   ;-L        5'753|      75l
With regard to the unit cost in each country it should be noted that in comparison to other
fellowship programs the OFP and STAID unit costs are very good buys.
A problem that was faced in the early days of the OFP was the disbursement of funds. The
problems of quickly disbursing funds to so many agencies in numerous countries as well as
student allowances to so many students was solved with the direct payment disbursement
system. A private disbusing agent, REDECON, was hired to work side by side with the OFPIU
disbursement section. After a 1 year period of "working out the kinks" this method of
disbursement proved to be very efficient. There are now plans to utilize the same system for the
STAID program since that program has had serious problems utilizing a special account system.
Cost Overrun
It was projected some time ago that there would be a cost overrun for the OFP that would be
absorbed by the STAID-WB loan. This cost has recently been calculated to be approximately
US $ 5.7 million.
The total cost of the OFP from beginning of the loan until the end of the study program requires
two cost analysis. One cost is determined by the actual expenditures calculated until the end of
the loan, December 31, 1992 and the other cost is projected from January 1, 1993 until the study
programs are completed. (See Table 27 ).



- 76 -
TABLE 27
BREAYDOVWN OF OFP ACrUAL COSTS
AND MAJNEES USED FROM OR BY SrAID
(IN US DOLLAR)
OS TOTAL  |I STAID MONIES
OFP   lOPMON    IBD LOAN | USED FOR OFP
CATMOtRY            ACIUAL COST| USED FOR STAID  DISBURSED |[(PROIECIED COST)
L A. RAQffLOWStMUS B3,987,S0S.07  4.03217M.91   88019.977.98   9.743.792.00
B. CaMLWORK. FURNMIVRD AND MZQUV%WT   331,269.92   OM0    331,69.92       0.00
C CONSULTANttlSYSThMS DEVELOtMENT  
A   _STU S _                         4.635.713.33  0.00   4.635713.33     0.00
L            m                11  ^954,2 {LoTAL  19S  il 92,9Wt.23   9,744,792.00
Table 27 provides a breakdown of OFP actual costs, OFP monies used for the STAID
implementation as well as STAID monies that have been used or are projected to be used for
OF? students who are still studying abroad.
o  Actual costs                                 =   US$88,954,788.32
o  Projected costs                              _   US$ 9,743,792.00
Total actual and projected costs for OFP fellowships =   US$98,698,580.32
The total actual cost overrun is calculated as follows:
A. Fellowship cost             =  US$ 93,731,597.07
B. Consultants                =  US$   4,635,713.33
C. Equipment                   =  US$    331.269.92
Total Costs                =  US$ 98,698,580.32
Total Loan                 =  US$  93.000.000.00
Cost Overrun               =  US$  5,698,580,32
*  GOI ContrIbuton
In the original SAR for the OFP it was agreed that the GOI would provide an additional 60
million dollars of which 16 million dollars would be for domestic training, both non degree and
degree. The estimate of the local expenditure comes to approximately US $ 20 million at todays
exchange rate.
There were several factors that have accounted for the shortcoming in the GOI contributions to
the progmm including:
(1)   In 1987/88 there was a large reduction the GOI budget including all the LPND's
budgets. This was due to the economic situation in Indonesia at that time. This
was the most critical factor affecting GOI contributions to the OFP.



- 77 -
(2)   At the same time that there was an economic crunch in 1987/88, plans were being
made for two "follow-up" programs to the OFP, namely the STMDP and STAID
program. Several programs that were originally planned for OFP that were to be
jointly funded by GOI and IBRD such as local training programs, were later
included as part of the STMDP or STAID programs.
(3)   The Design of the OFP was not always as realistic as one would hope for. OFP
was a long term project originally designed in 1984/85. Variables such as local
economic conditions, changes in personnel, and changes in the LPNDs needs and
priorities could not be predicted in the original SAR. Some aspects of the design
had to be either adjusted or simply omitted from the actual execution. One
example of that is money that was to be provided for research.
(4)   Unfavorable exchange rates and inflation also had detrimentel effects on the GOl
contribution and of course this variable could not be predicted in 1985.
The GO contribution to the OFP was calculated under four categories: 1) Overseas Trainiing
Program, 2) Local Training Program, 3) Management and, 4) Other (See Table 28). Overseas
Training consists of the total number of academic and industrial training programs abroad.
Local training pertains to the total number of academic programs taking place in domestic
universities. Management consists of OFPIU and LPND operations (man months for OFP
services), EEO consultant services and the Reintegration Program. "Other" refers to the
construction of training facilities in four of the LPNDs designed as centers of training activity.
These facilities include mess and multi-purpose areas and air conditioning equipment.



TABLE 28
SUMMARY OF GO0 CONTRIB1IMON
OVERMSAS FELUOWSHIP PROGRAM (OFP) 2599-BiD.
in 000 Rupla
PEROD (Bugca yea)              1985/1986 119806/97   199A9P    /990 9                                  1991/1991   1992/993    TOTAL
A OVERSEAS TRAI4  PROGRAM
-hadePztwsOdeatatiam(Quklnd)              280,00       640,500     694,500     412,500     168,000      69,000      66,000          O    2,W331,000
* FtqoanI                                 18,00        28,0m       60,000     115,500      58,500      48,000      6,000           0     334,500
* Progam 2A                              198,000      174D000     124,500     162,000      91,500      21,000     60,000           0     831,000
* Progam 23                               46,5P0      213,000     181,S50      16,500       1,500          a1          0           0     459,000
* Program 3                                12,000     111,000     208,0S0      54OOO       3,000          0           0           0     388,500
* f ograa 4A                              I,0         8lO8,       94,500      54,000       4,0            0           0           0     2430oo0
*Progm 4B                                  45W00       25,i00      25:R00      10,500       9a_00O                     0           0      75,000
-oscassaatdyCm kind)                      411,750    1,489,750    2,733,000    3,107,500    2,920,750    2,599,750    1,458,500  5,000   14,726,000
* Proram I                                 18,250      77,000     143,250     319,250     440,000     493,250     350,50       2,000    1,843250
* Progam 2A                              296,750      625,750     782750      788,500     76,000      503,500      41,50D        500    3,807,250
* Progam 2B                               71,250      477,000     868,750     88S,OO0     860,500     842,750     674,750          0    4,680,000
* Pcogram 3                               22,000      218,750     6112SO      757,750     757,750     741,750     373,250      2,500    3,485,000
* Program 4A                               2,750       47,750     256,000     292,500      60,750       4,500      15,750          0     680,000
* Program 4                                  750       43,500      7,000       64,50      33,7S0      1i,0oo      3,000           0     230,500
SUB XTAL        692,250Z    2,130,2S0]   3,427,500    3,520,000   3,088,750   2,668,750    1,524,500[  S,004   17,S7,000
[ILLOCALTlR6!1G PROGRAM                 j  2,089,413 j|  1,396,415   818,240  IA| 1,06,077 || 1,451,969 J( 4,056,507 5j 5,483,649 |j 3,131,238   19,702,714
C MANAGEMENT                                        I                                     _ii
IOFPU opeation On                          162,000 4nd  I_ O       420,000     420,000     420,000     420,000     420,000    420,000    3,102,000
-EEOX/otntseula                           233,647       88,058     138,154       3.019     139,318     420,955     104,587     33,871   1.161,610
- Reintegraton Program                                      Ot          0           0       17,500      21,000      28,000     32,500       99,00
SUB TOTAL       395,647    508,058      558,154     423,019     576,818     861,955     55'2,587 F4J6,3711n  4362,610 1
ITIOTALA+B+C                   3,177,310    4,034,723    4,803,894    4,949,096    5,117,37    7,587,212   7,560,736   3,622,609  4142Z324]
*h lcal training induded acilities, building aomstrion and domestic feflowship taining



- 79 -
IV. REENTRY PROGRAM                  I
A critical aspect of the Overseas Fellowship Program is the successful social readjustment andl
professional reintegration of the returnees after the completion of their studies overseas. The
goals of the Reentry Section, FPIU are therefore to:
o  provide the means for the quickest possible professional integration and social
readjustment of each returnee;
o  ensure that the newly acquired knowledge and skills of returnees are properly utilized
and maintained upon their return
o  establish and maintain the capability to analyze the long-term value of OFP-type
training programs.
In meeting these goals, the Reently Section carries out, has carried out or is in the process of
carrying out the following activities:
o    organizing and conducting two Reentry seminars per year
o   publishing three times per year a reentry newsmagazine
o   compiling statistics and data on the number of program returnees
o    organizing meetings with FPIU and reentry coordinators in the LPNDs to discuss
reentry and retumee issues and possible solutions within the individual LPNDs
o   conducting periodic interviews with returnees and returnee supervisors to ascertain the
readjustment and reintegration of returnees
o   developing questionnaires and'other instruments to analyze returnees problems and
performance
o    implementing a long range longitudinal study of returnees perfomance as compared
to a control group of non returnees
o    conducting research into LPND budgets and expenditures as background data for and
analysis of research environments and conditions
This section contains the following parts:
1.  A review of the final reentry statistics at program closing broken down by LPND,
country, length of time returned and status on return.
2.  A review on the background and current status of the Reentry Newsletter Warta,
Purnakarya Siswa
3.  A report on the semi annual reentry seminams.
4.  A report on the results of interviews conducted with returnees.
S.  An overview of the results of the implementation and initial results of tlh;
Longitudinal Tracer Study on Performance of Returnees.



- 80 -
6.  Conclusions and recommendations for continuation of the Reentry Program.
Detailed reports on four, five, six and seven above plus additional data and information on the
performance of retumees is contained in Overseas Fellowship Program Results: An
Assessment of Performance and Impact of Returnees which is attached to the OFP Program
Completion Report as Appendix No.1.
a. Reentry Statistics
The statistics given for Reentry may vary from figures that appear elsewhere in the Program
Completion Report. Reentry statistics count only fellows who have retumed and are working in
their respective agencies. They do not take into account fellows who have received one degree
and have remained overseas to study for a second degree. Nor do they take into account the
number of degrees that have been obtained by an individual returnee. For example, a fellow who
completed an S2 (MSc.) and continued on to obtain a S3 (Phd) is only counted by Reentry as a
S3 on their return to Indonesia.
As of January 1993, 847 fellows have returned to Indonesia and begun the reintegration process
into their respective LPNDs.
The table below summarized the total number of retumees according to their country of study,
LPND, program, and duration of time since their return (See Table 29). In addition, the tables
also refiect the return status of each retumee. The codes used are:
INA I   =  Completed program and returned with intended degree.
INA 2 = Transferred to a training program and retumed with a certificate
INA 3   =  Did not complete the program



- 81 -
TABLE 29
REENTRY STATISTCS
Numbt of feliow
- bygthof Omhiu0 rtum datO           Sub Totl by Stathu Code
1-3      4.6      7.9    1012   MOe then
Count!y    UPND  Pro8mU    Month    Moaths  Mont    Months  12 Months  INMA    NA2    INA3   Total
USA         BAKOS    2A          0        0        0       0         2        2      0        0       2
3         0       0        0        0         1        1      0        0       1
BA1AN    2A          1        1        0       0         7        8      0        I       9
3        0         1       0        2         0        3      0        0       3
BPPr       I         I        I        1        1        3        6      0        1       7
2A        0        3        0        8       40       50       0        1     51
3         0       0        0       10        10       19      1        0      20
40        o        0        0        0        5        4       0        1      5
BPS        1         2        0        1        1        5        4       3       2       9
IA        0        0        0        1         7       7       0        1      8
LAPAN    2A          0        1        0        0        5        S       0       1       6
3         0       2        0        2         1        5      0        0       5
UIPI       1         2        1        1        2        S        9      0        1      10
2A        0        0        0        3        9        12      0        0      12
3         0        1       0        0         1        2      0        0       2
4B        0        0        0        0         1        1      0        0        -
SubTota      6       11        3       30       102     1N        4       9     ISI
UK          BAKOS      1         0        0        0        0         1        1      0        0       1
2A        0        0        0        0         2        1      0        1      2
SATAN      I         0        0        1        0        2        3       0       0       3
2A        0        2        0        0         2       4       0        0      4
BPPT       1         2        0        0        I        8        9       1        1      11
2A        0        3        4        3        34       37      5        2      44
3         0       0        1I       4         0       15      0        0      IS
40        0   I   0         0        0         1        0      0        1       1
LAPAN      3         0        0        2        4        0        6       0       0       6
LIPI       I         0        1        1        0        6        8       0       0       8
2A        0        0        0        1        16       14      2        1      17
3         0       0        0        2         0        2      0        0       2
40        0        0        0        0         1        1      0        0       I
SubTal       2        6       19       1s        73     101       8        6     11S
CANADA    BAKCCS    2A           0        0        0        0         1        1      0        0       I
BATAN    2A          0        1        0        4        11      13       1        2      16
BPPr      2A         0        0        0        0        4        4       0       0       4
BPS       2A         0        1        1        1        3        5       0        I      6
4B        0        0        0        0         2        2      0        0       2
-AN              -0           1    0            0                 1   0                   2
48        0        0        0        0         i               0        0     _
LiJPr     2A         0        0        1        0         4       4       0               5
B         -0       0        0        -        -         I      0        1       2
SubTaW       0        3        2        5       29       32       1       6      39



- 82 -
TABLE 29
REENTRY SIATISICS
Numbsrof oe'laws
- byAng&o timouintcatstedet           Sub Totby Sfat Cod    |
1-3      4r6     7-9    10-12   Mom thsn
CounOy    LPND   PrOgm    Months   Mooths  Mondts  Months  12 Months  tiAl   INA2   INA3   Total
AUSTRALA BATAN    2A             0        0        0        0        3        3       0       0       3
DPPr       3         0        0        3       0         0        3      0        0       3
BPS       2A         0        0       0        0         3        3      0        0       3
LIPI      2A         0        0        0       0         2        2      0        0       2
3         0       0        7        0         0        7      0        0       7
__S_ SubTotI       0        0       10       0         8       18      0        0      18
GERMANY   BATAN        1          1       2        0        1         1        5      0        0      5
2A        0        0        0        0        it       2       3       6       11
4A        0        0        0        0         8       8       0        0      8
BPPF       1         2        0        0        2        2        5       1       0       6
2A        0        0        0        1        3        3       0        1      4
2B        1        0        0        0        8        1       0       8       9
4A        0        0        0        0        29      28       0        1     29
4B        0        0        0        0         1       1       0       0       1
LAPAN      1         0        0        0        1        1        0       2       0       2
2A        0        0        0        0         7       2       2       3       7
4A        0        0        0        0        15      14       0        1      iS
WL1.       1         2        1        1        1        3        7       1       0       8
2A        0        0        0        1        11       4       2        6      12
______   4A  0     0        0        0         3       3       0        0      3
SubTot       6        3        1        7       103      83      11      26      120
HOLLAND   BAKOS    4B            0       0        0        0         1        1      0        0       1
BATAN    4A          0        0        0        0        6        6       0       0       6
BPPT       1         0        0        0        0         1       1       0       0       1
2A        0        0        0        0         2       2       0        0       2
2B        2        3        1        1         5       3       0        9      12
48        0        0        0        0         1        1      0        0       1
BPS       2A         0        2        0        0        7        9       0       0       9
.________         4A         0        1       0        0         3        4      0        0       4
LAPAN      1         0        1        0        0        0        1       0       0       1
2A        0        0        0        0         1       0       0        1       1
2B        I        0        0        0         2       0       0        3      3
LUI        1         0        0        0        0         1       I       0       0        1
2A        0        0        0        0         6       3       0        3      6
28        1        0        0        0         2        0      0        3     _3
SubTtahl     4             _  1         1       38       32       O       19     Si



- 83 -
TABLE 29
REENTRY STATISFICS
Numb.of filow
bSLength  1sie  wtuam dat.           Sub Total by Statu Code
1-3      4-6     7-9    10412   Mom Ugm
_Coun     LPND  Ptomgm    Month    Mouths  Months  MoDtlU   12 MoOthS  INAI       A2   INA3   Total
FRANCE    BATAN        1         0       1        1        4        5       11      0        0      11
2A        0        0       0        0         5        1      1       3       5
2B        0        0       0        0         1       0       0        1      1
BPPT       1         I       0        0        0        1        1       1       0       Z
2A        0        0       0        0         2        0      0        2      2
28        2        1       0        1         4        1      O       7       8
4A        0        0        0       0         2        2      0        1      3
LAWAN      1         0       0        0        0        2        2      0        0       2
2A        0        0        0       0        11        I      1        9      11
4A        0        0        0       0        19       18      1        0      19
48        0        0       0        0         1        0      0        1      1
UPI  '    1          0       3        0        3         1       5       1       1       7
2A        0        0        0       0         3        2      0        1      3
28        0        0        1       1         1        1      0        2      3
_______  SubTotal   3 _               2        9       58       45      5       28      78
IAPAN      BAKOS      1         0        0       0        0         1        1      0       0       1
2A        1        0       0        0         0        1      0       0       1
3        4        0        0        0        0        4      0        0       4
BATAN      1         0       0        0        0         3       3       0       0       3
2A       15        0        2       0         9       23      2        1     26
3        5        0        0        0        0        5      0        0      S
4A        0        0        0       0        16       16      0        0      16
9PFF       1         2       0        0        0         2       3       1       0       4
2A       13        0        0       0        12       25      0        0     25
3       35        0        0        0       43       74      0        4      78
4A        0        0        0       0        20       20      0        0     20
LAPAN      I         1        0       0        0         0        1      0       0       1
2A        1        0        0       0         4        5      0       0       5
3        12       0        0        0         1      12      0        1      13
4A        0        0        0       0        29       29      0        0     29
LIPI       1         2       2        0        0         7       9       0       2      11
2A        3        0        0       0         4        7      0        0      7
3        9        0        0        0        0        9      0        0       9
4A        0        0        0       0         4        4      0        0      4
8PS        2A        I        0        0        0        0        1      0        0       1
SubToal   104         2       2        0       1S5      252      3       8     263
nIAND  BPrPT          2A         0        0       0        0         1        1      0       0       1
tAPAN    2A          0        0       0        0         1        1      0       0       1
LI-       2A         0 -              0        0         4       3       0        1      4
48        0        0        0       0         1        0      0        1       1
Sub Toal     0       0        0        0         7       5       0       2       7
BELWlM    BATAN    4B            0        0       0        0         1        I      0       0       1
SubTotad     0        0       0        0         1        1      0       0       1
PMLPPIESIBRSI  2A                0        0       0        0         3        4      0       0       4
43        1        0       0       0         0        1      0        0       1
SubTota      0        0       0        0         3       4   -0          0       4
r=  -  --    - -
torAL2L  IJ.25L 37               401!7m                      L   32L1 0a4 l



- 84 -
b. Reentry Newsmagazine
The Reentry Newsmagazine provides a vehicle for disseminating informnation concerning the
activities of retumees, articles of interest conceming research and development, new
advancements in science and technology and problems faced by fellowship program returnees.
The Reentry Newsmagazine program was implemented in mid 1988 with the first edition a six
page newsletter published in May 1988 under the title Berita OFP. Three additional editions
were published iitermittently in 1989 and 1990.
The newsletter from its beginning was a success with the returnees. In 1991, beginning with the
1991/92 fiscal year, the Reentry Newsmagazine was reorganized primarily at the request of
returnees to better reflect the needs of the increasing number of retumees. This reorganization
included:
1. A regular publication schedule of three times per year (July,November and March).
2. A change in format from a newsletter to a glossy covered newsmagazine.
3. Implermenta4ion of an honorarium program to allow payment to returnees for contribution of
artic!es.
4. Expasoion of the number of issues printed and distributed.
Pubication, Format and Distribution
Since the reorganization six editions of the Reentry Newsmagazine have been published and the
newsmagazine has kept to its schedule of three issues per fiscal year (July, November and
March). As a newsletter, the average number of pages was six. Under the newsmagazine format
the average number of pages per issues has increased to approximately 50. The distribution has
also increased considerably to correspond with the number of retumees. The figures below show
the distribution increases:
1988, 1989, 1990           200 - 250 copies
1991,1992,                 450 copies
1992,1993                  950 copies
Begining with the July 1992 edition, the name of the newsmagazine was changed from Berita
OFP to Warta, Pumakarya Siswa. This name change took place to reflect that beginning in 1991
the retumees were no longer only from OPP but also from the two follow on programs STMDP
and STAID.
Honorarium Program
To encourage contributions by retumees, the Reentry Section in May 1991 was authorized to pay
an honorarium of 30,000 Rupiah per article contributed. The expected benefits of the
honorrium program were to:
o   provide greater dissemination and feedback on current research projects being
conducted by retutnees
o    iease the undetstanding of issues and problems being faced by returnees



- 85 -
o   increase the flow of information on new innovations in research,technology, project
development and other areas
At the beginning of the honorarium program, the number of articles per issue contributed by
retumees was approximately two with an average length of 1.5 pages. Since the implementation
of the honorarium program, the number of articles contributed by returnees has averaged six
with the average number of pages per article increasing to five plus.
In November 1992, the authorized amount of honorarium was increased to 50,000 Rupiah.
The honorarium program has been a successful intervention that has increased the depth and
scope of the Reentry Newsmagazine and lead to a refocusing of content to research and
development issues.
c.    Reentry Seminars
Reentry Seminars are conducted on a semi annual basis by the FPIU, Reentry Section. Through
the completion.of OFP in January of 1993, nine Reentry Seminars have been held with
attendance in recent seminars averaging approximately 200 retumees and 30 40 invited guests
including LPND officials and supervisors, OFP, STMDP and STAID program coordinators, and
officials from other agencies and organizations. The Reentry Seminars are usually scheduled for
three sessions on three consecutive days with each session concluding in the early afternoon after
lunch. In order to maximize participation, each session is held at a different LPND with the
seminars being rotated on a regular basis among the LPNDs.
Purpose
The purpose of the Reentry Seminars is to:
o   Provide opportunities for retumees to network and exchange ideas with other
returnees and officials and supervisors from other LPNDs
o    Collect information concerning the professional and sociocultural reintegration and
readaptation of the PKSs at their place of work
o    Collect information concerning issues effecting the reintegration and readaption of
PKSs
o   Discuss and obtain inputs for management consideration on issues related to:
- methods for preparation of PKSs for reemployment in the organization
- methods for preparation of the supervisors of PKSs that will allow them to optimize
the use of PKSs
- organizational and managerial considerations to support the participation and
optimization of PKSs at their place of work.
. Participants
The participants at Reentry Seminars include:
1.  Deputies and Directors from the LPNDs.



- 86 -
2.  Secretaries, Managers and Coordinators of the OFP/STMDP/SrAID programs at the
LPNDs.
3.  PKSs from the LPNDs.
4.  Directors and Managers of Education and Training Departments in the LPNDs.
5.  The Directors, Managers and Coordinators from other departments in the LPNDs.
6.  Directors, Managers and Coordinatos from other Government of Indonesia agencies
such as OTO, BAPPENAS.
7.  Student Relation Officers from OFP and STMDP.
8.  Other invited guests.
Seminar Content
During the seminars, presentations are made by both selected returnees and LPND officials and
supervisors. In general, three to four presentations are made per session with each presentation
being followed.by questions and discussions. On average there are three presentations by
retumees for every presentation by an official or supervisor. In recent seminars, typical topic
areas for presentations have included:
=   work productivity
-   integration of returnees in the work environment
-   transfer of know how and experience by retumees to others in the work place
-   coordination between retumees and their peers
The Reentry Seminars have proven to be an effective means of bringing returnees and
officials/supervisors from the various LPNDs to discuss reentry issues and possible solutions as
well as providing an opportunity for networking and discussing research projects with colleagues
in other institutions.
d.    Interviews with Returnees
Interviews with returnees were carried out in 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992. However, the most
extensive and indepth interviews were those carried out in October and November of 1992. In
these interviews, 82 returnees were interviewed in groups containing four to ten participants.
The interviews were divided into five basic areas: career outlook; OFP effect on personnel
growth; job satisfaction; working conditions; and problems and issues. The following provides
a brief summary of the results of those interviews. A more detailed report on interview results is
provided in Appendix 1.
1. Career Outlook - All the returnees interviewed felt that their overseas study had
enhanced their career outlook. They are confident that their programs provided them
with increased skills and knowledge that will allow them to perform their jobs better
and contribute to the growth ln their organizations as well as to take advantage of
opportunities and increase their chances for promotion.



- 87 -
2. Personnel Growth - All the returnees interviewed felt that OFP had been a positive
factor in their personnel development. Specific aspects mentioned included: better
able to identify, analyze and solve problems; more knowledge of research methods
and how to apply them; more confidence and motivation to try new things; better
informed about my field; greater understanding to the world and other cultures;
greater knowledge about information sources and how to find and use them.
3.  Job Satisfaction - Overall, the majority of the retumees in the interview sample felt
satisfied with their current jobs. However, approximately 30% felt that their current
job was not well matched to their fields of study.
4.   Working Conditions - Many of the returnees felt that working conditions need to be
improved including: salary; availability of equipment; funding for R & D; less
bureaucracy and greater access to information sources. However, S3 and S2 returnees
viewed these not so much as issues or problems, but challenges to be overcome. SI
returnees more saw these as issues that was causing them frustration in carrying out
their work.
S.   Problems and Issues - A range of problems and issues were mentioned in the
interviews. For the most part these correspond to problems and issues mentioned in
other interviews as well as discussions with returnees and supervisors. Principle
among these are: job orientation especially for S1 returnees; comipunication between
fellows, FPIU and supervisors; institutional and organization systems and
bureaucracies; over estimation of a returnees capabilities; job placement; information
resources; and keepingcurrent in field of study after return.
c.    Longitudinal Tracer Study
The following is a summary of the development, implementation and results of the Longitudinal
Tracer Study. A detailed account is provided in Appendix 1 to the OFP Program Completion
Report.
The purpose of the study is to track a sample group of returnees as well as a control group over a
time fIame of approximately 10 years with the questionnaire or updated versions of the
questionnaire administered periodically (every two to three years) during the timeframe.
The study was designed so that at a later date it could be adopted for expansion to encompass
returnees from two other fellowship programs, the Science and Technology for Manpower
Development Program (STMDP) and the Science and Technology for Industrial Development
(STAID) program.
The inteotion of the study is to investigate whether the OFP provides potential advantages in
skills and abilities that allows returnees, individually and as a group, to make a measurable
contribution in addressing eight key issues identified as being particularly critical in the over all
effort to improve the use and application of S & T. If it can be shown that such potential
advantages exist and are measurable, the indication would be that the OFP is yielding a positive
return on investment (ROI) or that the contribution of the retumees is greater than the cost of an
overseas education.
Ihe study was designed around 27 indicatots that were based on 10 assumptions that were
Incorporated into a 40 question questionnaire.



- 88 -
During January to April 1993, the study was administered to a randomly selected group of 225
OFP retumees and a control group of 155 LPND staff who have not had an opportunity to study
oveuseas. Careful attention was paid to balancing the groups on three criteria: education, age,
years of employment. However, the control group was skewed toward younger employees
which is a reflection of the current composition of LPND staffing. WiLhin each criteria category,
there is an appreciable sample size that does provide the basis to draw valid indications and
conclusions regarding the performance of the returnees in comparison to a control group that did
not have the opportunity to study ovemseas.
The following is a brief summary of the initial results that can be drawn from an analysis of
major points covered in the study:
1.  The primary indication from an examination of salary aud income data as well as data
on promotions is that within a fairly short period of time after returning (average two
years), individuals with overseas educations can expect a greater salary and income
and faster promotions than those who have,not had such an opportunity.
2.  OFP retumees are assigned to more projects and spend considerably more time
traveling ovetseas in relation to S & T activities. They also have command of foreign
languages and a higher level of correspondence with both domestic and overseas
colleagues inregard to S & T subject matter. The indication is that OFP returnees are
increasing the capacit2 of the LPNDs to manage and organize basic, applied and
development research; are providing an entrepreneurial ability that contributes to S &
T growth, as well as a language ability that allows access to a board range of S & T
information and researchers from other countries.
3.  OFP retumees have a greater number of domestic and intei.-ational publications than
the control group as well as a higher number of presentation made at domestic aad
international seminars. In addition, they are actively engaged in teaching and
consulting. The indications are that OFP retumees are demonstrating increased
productivity in implementing and conducting basic aud applied research, as well as
being betteir prepared to adapt, adopt and improve on modem technology and
processes.
4.  OFP returnees show higher outputs and results than the control group on indicators
related to the transfer of technology to industry, direction and supervision of staff, and
management responsibilities in both structural, and functional positions . The
indications are that OFP returnees have improved research and engineering skills and
the ability to apply their skills and knowjedge in the work setting which will
contribute to a board range of government initiatives to advance S &T.
An analysis of the initial results of the study, while not definitive since the average time since
temu  of OFP fellows is approximately two years, do indicate that theOFP returnees:
-   are making  i-.;vidually and as a group, a measurable contribution in addressing
eight key issues identified as being particularly critical in the over all effort to improve
the use and application of S & T
-   possess advantages in skills and abilities that will overtime yield a positive return on
investment (ROI) or a qualitative and quantitative contribution that is greater than the
cost of an overseas education.



- 89 -
t     Conclusion
The Reentry Section has established the means to assist the returnees in their professional
integration and social adjustment. They have also developed a range of tools to measure the
performance and impact of the retumees and analyze the long term value of OFP type programs.
IQ the future, the Reentry Section needs to expand its activities and programs to address a range
of issues and problems faced by returnees. Principlt among these would be:
o   reorientation programs;
o   better systems of communication and coordination between fellows and supervisors
while the fellows are still overseas;
o   development of systems the LPNDs can apply to assure relevant job placement for
retumees;
o   work with the LPNDs to design systems that assist returnees to organize and develop
research projects particularly in the stages immediately after their return;
o    assistance to the LPNDs in developing reentry programs that meet the particular needs
of the LPND;
o   development of a policy handbook that can be used as a reference by the LPNDs in
assisting returnees to readapt and reintegrate.



- 90 -
V.  COLLABORATME RELATIONSHIPS
The third objective of the OFP was to develop and strengthen collaborative relationships
between Indonesian and foreign universities and research institutions. Unfortunately, in
designing the OFP there was no formal mechanizm or funds induded in the design to see that
collaborative programs were implemented. Yet, there are numerous examples of collaboration
many of which began with OFP but were/are being carried out under STAID. These
relationships tire outgrowths of developing technical and research competence to be shared
and/or enhanced through cooperation both formally and informally.
The basis for collaboration came from the LPND employees disbursed as students among some
331 universities in 14 foreign countries. This wide diversity of institutions laid the foundation
for developing further links through which Indonesian research agencies, universities and
individuals have been able to benefit.
Thefollowing are examples of a variety of collaborative relationships and related activities:
a.  Formal *:
1.  LINK Program between Institute of Technology in Surabaya (ITS) and University of
New Castle upon Tyne (UNI) in England.
2.  BATAN established a new masters program at the Institute of Technology at
Bandung (ITB) through which graduate research may be conducted using BATAN
facilities and equipment.
3.  BATAN provides six months of on-the-job training for students from  five
Indonesian universities (Ul, ITB, UNAS, ITS, ITI).
4.  BPPPT is engaged in a cooperative effort with the Institute of Agriculture in Bogor
(IPB) In the assessment of Biotechnology for their Fisheries Department.
S.  BPPT has a cooperative project in Biotechnology related to Fisheries at Gifu
University in Japan.
6.  BPPT has conducted intermediate and long term joint research in cooperation with
University of WueEzburg in Germany since 1990.
7.  BPS has a special (S-1) program for (120) employees at IPB.
8.  LAPAN cooperated with an Australian university for a 10-week training program
developing expertise in marine studies.
9.  LAPAN conducted joint research projects with Satdalmet TNI-AU (the air force
institute)
10. LAPAN conducted two joint research projects in Japan with the University of Tokyo
(one month duration) and with Nagoya University for ten months.
11. BAKOSURTANAL has collaborative short term  training program  for their
employees with ITB and University of Gajah Mada.



- 91 -
12. Finally, through the GOI domestic fellowship component of the OFP approximately
900 fellows have received academic training and 400 have received short term
training at Indonesian universities.
b6  Informal:
1.  Through professorial contacts in all countries of study graduates have access to
current sources of technical and research information.
SC   Through professional contacts at University of Wuerzburg (Germany) opportunities
are readily available for research and training for PIDT personnel (BPPI). Also long
term joint research projects are available upon request from BPPT.
3.  BATAN is cooperating with five public universities in providing part-time lecturers.
4.   BPS is cooperating with seven public and privaie universities by supplying part-time
lectures.
S.  A lar,ge number of visitors representing universities abroad have come to the FPIU
anxious for developing joint programs.
6.  The British Council recently arranged a symposium  for the FPIU at which
representatives from 30 British universities participated.
7.  Visitors from Higher Education Development Support (HEDS), a USAID project
staffed by American professors working with Indonesian universities recently met
with FPIU representatives to discuss closer coordination and possible joint ventures.
&    Industrial representatives from Germany recently visited our Strategic .adustries and
research agencies (LPNDs) to determine the kinds of industrial training our students
in Germany needed.
9.  Several research projects that were staried at universities abroad by OFP students
have taken further steps in Indonesia.



- 92 -
VL CONCLUSIONS
The OFP has been an overwhelming success. The three objectives of the program have been
fully met and some aspects of the program far exceeded the original expectations. The research
and development capabilities of the participating agencies have been greatly enhanced by the
OFP. The human resource development investment in science and technology required to move
Indonesia into the twentieth century has been started in large part through the OFP and is being
further expanded through STAID.
The establishment of the OFPIU as a self managed organization has provided a cadre of
personnel within OFPIU and its supportive organizations that have the skills and knowledges to
develop and operate both overseas and domestic fellowship programs.
Systems and personnel are now in place and operating that can provide services in recruiting,
selecting, monitoring, placing, managing finances, managing reentry, conducting manpower
needs surveys, developing new programs at domestic universities and foreign universities,
established computer networks, etc, etc, etc. The policies and procedures needed to properly
execute these services were well established by the OFPIU and consequently allowed the
implementation unit to expand into new areas and to service new agencies in the STAID
program. The implementation unit is now positioned to expand even further. Justification for
further expansion of the felllowship programs is greatly supported by the impact that OFP
returnees are already having on their LPNDs. This impact is not limited to increasing the
educational profile of each institution. In addition to an increased educational profile, returnees
are being placed in key positions to influence R and D development. Retumees are transferring
their new technology both within their own institutions and by teaching at major Indonesian
universities. They are publishing their research findings in numerous publications and they are
playing pivitol roles in creating new collaborative relationships between foreign and domestic
universities and research institutes (To fully appreciate the impact of the OFP on both the
immediate and future needs of R and R institutional development in Indonesia, the Reentry
Study contained in Appendix 1 of this report should be read.
The inclusion of so many foreign institutions and support agencies in OFP opened the door to
further expansion in the STAID program. Through these institutions programs such as the
STAID COOP program, industrial training program and UNK program were developed. Now
that these ties have been established it is extremely important to maintain and further develop
these programs. There is a great need to address the expanding need for more participation in
industrial and vocational training, more female participation, more participation from the outer
provinces and the inclusion of new government agencies, state owned industries and private
industries.



- 93 -
VY.  RECOMMENDATIONS
The experience gained through the OFP has already resulted in improvements in subsequent
fellowship programs. Nevertheless there are still areas of fellowship implementation that should
be reviewed again and possibly improved upon in future fellowship programs, especially in the
current STAID fellowship program and hopefully in follow-up fellowship programs.
The following recommendations are based on notes provided to the WB for preparation of the
OFP Program Completion Report as well as findings of the STAID midterm review of the
PHRDP fellowship program:
1.   Affirmative action programs should be designed and implemented whose objective
would be to eventually increase the pool of female applicants and applicants from the
lesser developed provinces for science and technology fellowships.
2.    Fellowship programs should be developed that specifically address the problem of
increasing female participation and outer province participation in science aud
technology
3.   A special effort should be made to include more government agencies, state owned
industries and private industries in future fellowship programs. The identification of
these future participants their manpower needs and their science and technology training
needs should be compiled so that costs of future fellowship programs can be projected as
soon as possible. Note: Such an effort is currently in progress.
4    The fields of study that are currently allowed should be expanded to include more S & T
fields that are needed in the manufacturing sector, including both the public and private
sector.
S.   All current STAID fellowship programs should be continued and expanded.
6.    Given the high cost of academic training in some countries and universities, the number
of countries and universities should be reduced.
7.   The OFP and current SIAID Program  have only just begun to explore the many
possibilities for industrial training fellowships., An intensive effort should be made to
'beef up" participation in such programs.
8.    Further, Vocational Training Programs in Science and Technology should become a high
priority. The gap between high school' completion and entrance into the work world in
scientific and technological industries should be studied and recommendations for
follow-on projects should follow. Such programs could possibly involve special
vocational or industrial training programs.
9.   Another manpower needs survey should be conducted by the FPIU to project future
training needs for the period 1994/1999. It is extremely important that any new
participadtg agencies be included in the survey.



- 94 -
10.  An effort should be made to provide bridge training programs within the participating
agencies that would increase the quality and quantity of the pool of applicants. Such
programs should focus on agencies whose pool of applicants has been low.
11. The utilization of overseas fellowships should continue at least at its present rate and
domestic fellowship programs should be intensified with the objective of improving the
domestic universities programs and becoming less dependent on foreign universities for
quality programs.
12.   Future fellowship programs should involve academic training as well as industrial
training whenever possible. Program participation in programs such as COOP should be
increased.
13. Linkages between foreign and domestic universities and industries should be intensified.
This would require more efforts in developing LINK programs.
14.  Altemative educational systems, such as utilization of overseas fellowships at community
and junior colleges should be explored and when feasible utilized for both academic and
vocationalindustrial training.
15. The fellowship program implementation unit that is now in place and operating is
capable of greatly expanding. In order to better coordinate science and technology
training with national science and technology polity, avenues should be explored that
would utilize the unit as a coordinating body for science and technology training.



- 95 -                      Attachment
Page 1 of 6
ATrACHMENT 1
MIDTERM REVIEW RECOMMENDATIONS
All of the major suggestions and recommendations outlined ia Part 3 of the OFP Midterm
Review Report have been addressed and in almost all cases fully implemented (See Figure 1 for
the suggestions and recommendations).   The following items refer to the major
recommendations contained in the Midterm Review and the subsequent actions that were taken.
Organizational Restructuring
Dudng the Midterm Review Report a new organizational structure was suggested i:. ?art
3 of the Report. The suggested organizational structure diagrammed in Part 3 c. the
Report was implemented in September 1987 with some modifications.  The
reorganization has evolved into a streamli.led organization that has now administered 3
different fellowship programs. The current organization is shown in Figure 2.
Deepene*  Understanding of S&T Policy by Uper Level Management of OFP
A top priority task recommended by the Midterm Review mission was to deepen the
understanding of S&T Policy and Implementation at the upper management level of tIe
OFP organization. It was noted in the Midterm review that there was no single definitive
document for S&T policy in Indonesia, but rather the best sources were in the speeches
of Minister Habibie in recent years. During the past six yeams efforts have been made by
the OFP management to both clarify and accentuate S&T policy as it relates to the OFP
as well as to subsequent fellowship programs. This deepened understanding of S&T
policy has been reflected in several papers delivered by the OFP Program Coordinator
Dr. Ing. Wardiman Djojonegoro during the past few years, including the following
papers:
1.    Comprehensive "Catch-Up" S&T Development Strategies
2.    Towards a Science and Technology Policy Approach Supporting Industrial
Development of Indonesia
3.    Education and Industrial Productivity with Science, Technology and Vocational
Education as the Critical Link
4.    Building Science and Technology capability in Indonesia: The case for Overseas
Study.
This deepened understanding is further reflected in the creation of a Policy Unit within the
STAID program.
Development and Implementation of Standard Operating Procedures and Policy
Handbook
Between September 1987 and December 1987 manuals containing the standard operating
procedures for the Monitoring and Evaluation Section and Student Relations Section
were developed and put in the hands of appropriate users. In May 1988 a first edition of
the Policy Handbook was published. This booklet clarified all matters pertaining to the



- 96 -           A4ttachment
Page 2 of 6
N1~~1111   III  lflElll
* - I 0  e     'I    liii  'i-~Iii
Z~I ~                               j111 1
oi                    1''  -B
'-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 97 -          Attachment
Page 3 of 6
1Iiiitii            WI I' dii
30 j j t;,00-~~*   A
i*j'X 



-98 -,Attachment
Page 4 of 6
predeparture training, policies abroad, monitoring and reporting, financial matters and
allowances. Subsequent to this first English edition, an updated edition in English and
Indonesian was produced in January 1989. Finally, with the implementation of the
STAID program, a third edition was developed in Indonesian and English in April 1992.
All of these manuals have been instrumental in developing a smooth operational
implementation unit which was capable of expanding.
Development of Management Reporting System
A management reporting system was developed that included:
(1)   Routine meetings of the OFPIU (every Tuesday and Friday) staff and managers in
attendance.
(2)   Routine monthly meetings were held with representatives from each LPND.
(3)   A written Monthly Management Report was developed and submitted to
management on a monthly basis.
(4)   Semianual progress reports provided management with both a summa-v and
aqalysis of all aspects of the program.
(5)   Each section of the OFPIU provided data for these management reports.
(6)   The development of a computerized,database management system was also a
critical factor in providing up to-date information to management.
Better Utilization of Consultant Services
The use of consultant services was vastly improved following the OFP Midterm Review.
Contracts with will defined terms of references that spelled out specific tasks to be
performed contributed greatly to this improvement. REDECON consulting services were
instrumental in the design and development of standard operating procedures and
manuals, policy handbooks, information booklets, academic monitoring instruments and
a computerized database management system. D1AN consulting services was utilized in
the development and implementation of contracts as well as in the development and
implementaton of all the Reentry Section activities. Contracts with EEOs were
developed that spelled out more fully the services they would provide and at what cost.
Rather than working independently, the consultants. worked side by side as part of the
OFPIU staff team on each project. There was no separation of projects between the
OFPIU teams and consultant teams. All were integrated so that maximum use could be
made of consultants.
Development of Monitoring System
The formalization of the monitoring system went hand in hand with the development of
the computedzed database system and the improved utilization of the EEOs.
The monitoring and evaluation system that was developed as well as some of the
problems that occured are contained on pages 46 through 48 of this Program Completion
Report. While the academic monitoring system that is in use does provide sufficient
Information to track the students academic progress, it Is hoped that any future fellowship
programs will be staffed with sufficient manpower and computers so that a totally



- 99 -                        Attachment
Page 5 of 6
Review and Improve REDECON Database
Ile "review and improvement of the REDECON database" that is recommended in the
Midterm Review was fully implemented. The following, actions were taken by a team
consisting of REDECON and OFPIU personnel:
(1)   The team reviewed the entire contents of the REDECON database.
(2)   Based on the review the team defined a new database structure and contents.
(3)   A system was desigped for gathering and inputting the needed data.
(4)   A network of personal computers f&om each section of the OFPIU was physically
linked to the HP 3000 mainframe computer. !
(5)   A "Database Management Manual" was written which provided all the directions,
codes, etc. that were to be utilized in accessing the new database.
(6)   Training workshops were conducted with appropriate OFPIU staff on how to
access the mainframe and input and retrieve data.
(7)   Implementation began in March 1988.
(8)   Since the inception and implementation of the database, revisions of the
"l)atabase Management Manual" and personnel training sessions have been
ongoing.
Formalize Role of 'Country OMcer" (SRO)
The role of the student relations officer (or country officer) was much better defined
subsequent to the Midterm Review. The SRO Manual that was written in 1987 contained
all the tasks and 2rocedures required of the country officer. The process for recruiting,
applying for the program and being admitted were all contained in this manual or in the
Policy Handbook The development of the standardized quarterly monitoring system and
the monitoring visits to each country of study was vital to better communication between
the SRC)s and the students under their care. The organizational structure that was
instituted subsequent to the Midterm Review was also instrumental in formalizing the
role and tasks of the 'country officer". Ultimately all of these things resulted in closer
communication between the students and country officers with the final result being
much improved student relations.
Recruitment and Selection
The formalization of the recruitment process was also define. in the standard operating
procedures manuals as well as through the Policy Handbook The recruitment/selection
process was evaluated durng the midterm review and several changes occured shortly
thereafter. Subsequent to the midterm review, a study was made of the recruitment and
selection process that resulted in the publicadon of a selection booklet. With the
implementation of the STAID program the selection process was evaluated again and
several changes in the process were implemented. (See pages 31-35 of this report for
more details regarding the recruitment selection process).
IFinance
Several recommendations made in the midterm review were subsequently developed for
the OFP. A computer progam was written to expedite the entire budgeting and



'Ateachment
-100                             Pa Page 6 of 6
projection process A cost assumptioA booklet was developed which contains all the unit
costs inmured duding each fiscal year. These costs are mutinely updated and utilized in
each budget as well a in the semianual projeions.
With the implementaion of the direct payment system routine procedures were written
and Implemented for disbursing all funds, using REDECON as the disbursing agent.
Quarterly and Annual Disbursement Plans were instituted based on projected numbers of
fillows and associated expenditures.
.



- 101 -
Pxoject Profile at Copleti@u
3.1       Related Bank Loans
LoCredit Tite               Purpose            Year of      Status
Approval
Loan 1237        To establish a new system for    April   Completd
Fcurth Education  trinng engineering technicians;  1976   May 1981
to improve the quality of
accountancy training and
practices; and to assist in
strengthening education planning
and management
Loan 1904        To increase the out in selected  September  Completed
University       fields in three major universities;  1980  Deceniber
Development      to improve the quality of                1987
university inputs; and strengthen
the management of the university
system.
Lan 2290         To expand polytechic          May        Completed
Second           enrollments and output; to    1983       December
Polytecnic       increase the mmber of technical          1990
teachers; and to assist the MEC
in defining appropriate
mechanisms for mangement of
the expanded polytechnic
subsystem
Loan 2547        To develop new graduate-level    May     Ongoing
Second University  programs in selected fields; to    1985
Development      initiate five speciaized
undergraduate programs; and to
strengthen overall university
plani  and management
Loan 2944        To improve sectoral planning; to  May    Ongoing
Higher Education  improve sectoral and institional  1988
Development      management; to increasing
resource mobilization; to
improve educational quality and
efficiency; to strengthen selected
fields of high demand such as
engineering; and to increase the
contribution of universities to
regional development



- 102 -
Loan 3311        To Improve qualit and         March      Ongoing
Second HIgher    efficiency; to alviate human  1991
Education        resource shortages in science and
Developmet       engineering; to improve planning
and management; to increa
resource mobilization; and to
strengthen regional development.
Lan 3134         To improve human resource     Novenber  Ongoing
Professional     development policymaing and    1989
Human Resources planning; to Improve the quality
Development      of professional, technical and
managerial staff; to improvem
the quality of scientific and
ehnological research and
development and to improve the
application of research and
technology to industrial
development
Loan 3031        To increase the efficiency and  March    Ongoing
Agricultural     relevance of the agriculal    1989
Research and     research system for continued,
Management       sustained agricultura
development



- 103 -
32        Project  setable
Item                 Dae Plaed                           Date Actual
IdentIfication                                        November 9-21,
(xecutie Pojet                                        1983
S_MMY)
Apprasa Mision   July, 1984                           Sepember 3-21,
1984
Postinppalsa                                          Febniary 10, 1985
Loan Negodadons   Juy, 1985                           April 29 - May 1,
1985
Board Approval     September, 1985                    July 2, 1985
Loa Signature      September, 1985                    July 16, 1985
Loan               December, 1985                     Spember 13,
1985
Loan ClosIng       Dcembce   31,                      March 31, 1993
1992
LOan Completion    June 30, 1993                      July 31, 1993



- 104 -
3.3       Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY      1986    1987    1988       1989    1990      1991    1992    1993
Appraisal    3.0       6.0     15.0    30.0  50.0       70.0    86.0   93.0
Estimate
Actual AL    2.0      13.7    32.5    56.5  78.44    90.2    93.0   93.0
I           I-  
ML The actual balance of the loan as of March 29, 1993 is $13,038.77.
Date of Last Disbursement: June 4, 1992
Figure 3.1      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement Chart
N'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:
4 i xJ.~nt (Ivf is;                            .  . *.. .........-R
| 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~. 1
..tZa- . . >     
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *eA*-i*%    %
~~~3424 _34  3124131
~' ~          18  ;v.:t i98,I 16.k 19O  1 r1~t  s  1f   ~
F ~~~~~~~~trIer



Project Implementation
ble 3.4-a. OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIPS: Original Targets Compared to Total Fellows
pe of Degrees           Duration  SAR Target Retumed Fellows  Transferred  Total  ConUnuing to  Grand Totl Reazatlon
Pass     Fall     Still Studying      Higher Degree 
wctorate PhD;Dr.lng;Dr.1r.    3years   250      12D        21       82       223            0      223    89.2%
etrs   MSc.              2.5 years              284        72       39       395          160      655
Dip.lng; Ir. Equlv  5 years              31        39       229      299            7      306
Sub-total                      650       315      111       268      694          167       661   132.5%
scheoks BSc.               6years      300       180        8        35      223           36      259    86.3%
Non-degr
on-DegreclndustrIa/ePearl 1.5years              158        3                161            7       168
Academic         1.Syears                 16        5                 20           29       49
Subtotal                       300       173        8        0       181           36      217    72.3%
Dtal    TOTAL                         1500       788      148       385      1321         239      1560   104.0%
ouce: Table 1A and I B fo lth GOI PCI..



BLE 3.4b FELLOWS AND FELLOWSIlPS: BREAKDOWN BY AGENCY AND SEX
Numbers of Fellows              SAR   Numbers of Fellowships     Incompletion Share of Total   Realizaftion
Maie Female Total % Female  Target  Succo  Incomplete  Total    Rates   SAR        Actual
a*      b**      c***   dub+c    cfd          %         %        b/a       dla
ICOS       25      1    26      3.8%        68      28         1      29       3.4%     4.5%      1.9%     41.4%     42.9%
6TAN      168    17   185       9.2%       316     221        19    240        7.9%    21.1%     15.4%     70.0%     76.0%
PT        682    8a   670    13.1%         539     709        65    774        8.4%    35.9%     49.6%    131.6%    143.7%
'8         44      4    48      8.3%        82       62        6      58      10.3%     6.5%      3.7%     63.6%     70.9%
PAN       133    28   159    16.4%         140      149       28    177       16.8%     9.3%     11.3%    I0.7%    128.8%
'I        185    48   233    20.6%         356      252       30    282       10.6%    23.7%     18.1%     70.9%     78.3%
3TAL     1137   184  1321    13.9%        1499    1411       149   1560        9.6%    100.0%    100.0%    94.1%    104.1%
.:       SR targts are calculted based on ratos between reported rquremens of LPNDs. *
** Includes hose who ae contiing to dudy.
** Incudes 6 death and one scknss.
.                               |~~~~~~~



- 107 -
Table 3.4-c. LOCAL TRAINING PROGRAMS:
ORIGINAL TARGETS AND ACTUAL
DEGREE  SAR        ACTUAL  REALIZATION
TARGETS
Docorate        so        52     104.0%
Masters        750       193      25.7%
Bachelors       75       636     848.0%
1Tot           875       881     100.7%
Source: Table 1A and 1B from the GOI PCR.



- 108 -
TA5 LE 3.4 (d)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
L   SPISXP/POFP/BPX87             PT. LREDECON   Disbusmet                   Rp           301,400,000
2.  SM"2SPPIP/BFPT/IV/88          PT. REDECON   Disburseent                   Rp          305,140,000
S.  SPIO14IOFP/DepAdm/BPPTXIV/89  PT. REDECON   Disbumement                  Rp           326,000,000
4.  SP/017/OFPiDcpAdmMBPT/rV9O   PT. REDECON   Disbursement                  Rp           296,000,00
S.  SPOlI/0OFP/Dep-AdmIBPP`/V91  PT. REDECON   Disbumment                    Rp           294,167,000
6.  SP/002VOFPDepBAdrPPT/IV/92  PT. REDECON   Disbursement                   Rp            86,62S,000
7.  SP/006/P?PKFOFP/BPFPTIX        PT. REDECON   Monitoring and Evaluation   Rp           339,033,000
.  SPI31PPIP/OFP/BPPT/IVI8S       PT. REDECON   Monitoring and Evaluation    Rp           340,190,200
9.  SPI02Z(OFP/Dep-Adm/BFPTAV/89  PT. REDECON   Monitoring and Evaluation    Rp           363,000,000
10. SP/007IOFP/DeCpAdm/BPPT/lV/90  PT. REDECON   Monitoring and Evaluation   Rp           364,800,000
1L  SP/011/OFP/DepAdm/BPPTIIVI91  PT. REDECON   Monitoring and Evaluation    Rp           359,125,000
12. SP00/OFPA)ep.Adm/BPT/IV/92  PT.REDECON   Monitodng and Evaluation        Rp           192,525,000
13. SP/IO3fOFP/DepAdm/BPPTAV90  DIAN              Financal Adm. & Reentry    Rp           175,770,000
14. SP/0WOFPADepAdnVBPPT/IV/91  DIAN              Financial Adm. & Re.entry    Rp         183,992,000
IS.      1987                     PT. PBI          Project Accounts Auditing  USD            151,000
16. SPK/1MOA/PPKP/B3PT/IV/8S      PT. PBI          Project Accounts Auditing  Rp           19,500,000
17. SPFU011A/PFKPI3PPT/IVJS       PT. PuI         Project Accounts Auditing  Rp            17,350,000
i8. SPK/OWIPPKP/BPT/IV/88         PT. PBI         Project Accounts Auditing  Rp            18,000,000
19. SrK/016FPKP/BFFTVm/88         PT. PBI          Project Accounts Auditing  Rp           12,7S0,000
20.    TOR 1989                   PT. PBI          ProjectAccountsAuditing   USD            1l9,S00
2L  SP/013/OFP MeiAd/BPPTAIV/89 PT. PBI            Project Accounts Auditing  USD            169,868



3.                   I'ft  cot ad uanl
W8 ?*et comi (US II10w4
Evabolt"zCatogau                        Apralslu              AcednaiW
_  %  ol      Tota          TOW
Ontrsels 1,owids Stwdy VNs%            74         104.8    98.7
Pko-DoWm TnlA    and Rbus
Equ*00nmt. Boos, Md Jouas              1           0.6      03
Co suhanes'Suvlm                       82          9.S      4.6
Loal TIg ad       Opeg                  0          27.8     14.2
Unallooed                              63          11.0     0
Total                                  61        13.7    117.9
mi Sours. BAR a.dat..
k1 Toal poject cot based an US$ aopval
of tepord aa project ot in Rupab by OO.



- 110 -
(I,).      Prqjet Flnancing
Sour                         f     Pland         Revised        Revived       A
u ut   Loan                Juy 14, L"6  March n,
Agremart                     991
(USS 'W0)
naRD Eedht 
Ovzsu             100%             77,700         79,500        89,990         88,020
faowliMbi stiody
-dim. and
eseac ads
Equ4nut, books,  100%, 70%Li         600            600           385            331
andjounmals
ConsutaSn         100%              7,800         7,800         2,625          4,636
UnIlocatd         -                 6,900         5,100           -             -
Total MED                          93,000         93,000        93,000         92,987
Tobd GOI                           60,700         60,700        60,700         24,932
Totl Project                       153,700        153,700       153,700       117,919
Al 100% of fot*td pandhm_ . 100% of locd epaditum (ax-factory) and 70% of local expedirs for other ktm proced
1-



Tablme 3o am01 on    n (1000 Rd
1985~     198617   198718   19881    199        191   191 192   1993    Tol            Tota O Ata    %ARdzW
PP      LJSD
Oveme Fewhp Pmro             692,26D 2132 0  3.421,500 3.52,000 3.08,70   6685750  1,524,0       5,00 17.057.000    10,9 3020,000    55%
Prdspa" Prepao              20500   640,500   694,500   412,500   160,000    9,000    66,000        0 2331,000     166  1,000   127%
OveremfStudy                411,750 1,489,750 2,733,00  3,107,500 2,920,750 2,509,750  1,456,500  6,000 14,726,000   .9,019 27.800,000   8OM0%
MOb _MOM=                                                                                                    0         0   50o,00      00%
0        0
Local TraInIng Progrun     2,06,4183 1,396,415   818,240 1,006,077 1,451,869 4,056,507 5,483,649 3.131l2a8 19,433.58    11,521 26,100,000    6092%
Manatgwntd                   395647   50K058   558,154   423,019   576,818   881,9S5   552,587   480,371 4,38,609   2,716 8O,O0        51.3%
OFPIU Opemratons            162,000  420,000   420,000   420,000   420,00o   420,000   420.000   420,000 3,10W00   1,912 4,94000   0632%
233,647    88,O08   138,154    3,019   139,318   420,955   104,587    33,71  1,161,609   754 1,90,000    61.1%
_PA*Oraft PrnSM0                          0         0        0    17.500    21,000   28.000    32,500    99,000       51 1.700,000     5.8%
Told                       8,177,310 4,034,723 4.803,894 4,949,0986 6,117,537 7,587,212 7.560,736 3,622609 40,853,117   24,932600,000    61.2%
RPSOWD                         1,100    1,100     1,644    1,686     1,770    1,843    2,020     2,050                        1,100
USO                            2,888    3668      2,922    2,93S     2,891    4,117    3,743     1,767    24,932   24,932    6,700    41.1%1
.                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~



3.8 Pgoect Results
3.t  Proact Coltbula to Staff Upgang In LPtD
STM   SO/Olpo    81JSS       2/MS    83/         Tom
SAKOSURTANALiS65 (A)                97        I9        36       13         0       1n
oistituon                          73.5%     256%       0.0%    100.0%
1092 ()               97       41        89        26         8       256
kulbui-                           74.2%     20.8%      5.0    100.0%
-P/A       0.0%    115.8%    1472%     9ft3%                 4%
Proaat (C)       0         1        5         8         a        14
% C/"          0.0%      4.5%      9.4%    50.0%     33.3%     15.1%
Twnover 0)         0         0         0         0        0         0
%D/0             0        0         0         0         0         0
SATAN         19815(A              830       32t       407       20        1S      1,678
Oibulon                            93.3%      .6%       2.9%    100.0%
1S92 (O            1,256      377      1,10o      117        48     2.900
Oisbufton                          87.0%      9.296     3.%    100.0%
(8/A    51.3%       17.4%    127.5%    485.0%    220.0%    737%
Peoet (C)        0        31        9        72        25       137
% Cl(9.        0.0%    5S.4%      1.4%     74.2%     75.8%     11.1%
Tumover            0         1         0        0         1         2
% D/C        0.0%      3.2%      0.0%      0.0%      4.0%      1.5%
BPPT          19 s(A)              221       111       623        7         7       s9o
O     _bIbullon                    97.8%      1.1%      1.1%    100.0%
1692 (               337       156     1,319      1ee        31     2.011
Oistibon                           86.9%     11.1%      2.0%    100.0%
8.4AA      S2.5%    40.5%    111.7%   2300.0%    342.9%    107.6%
PrIect (C)       0        59      152       120        26       366
%-C/(          0.0%    131.1%    21.8%     60.1%    106.3%     35.1%
Tmover 0)          0         0         a        2         0        10
% b/C        0.0%      0.0%      5.3%      1.6%      0.0%      2.7%
BlPS          185 (A)              144       S84       119       40         5       992
Di*sbudon                          726%      24.4%      3.0%    100.0%
1992 ()              166     1,060      757        93        11     2006
OisblbuUon                         87.9%     10.6%      1.3%    100.0%
(8.4/A    15.3%    563%    536.1%    132.5%    120.0%    111.3%
Proet(C)         0         6        0        30         7        43
%  C/          0.0%      1.6%     0.0%     56.6%    116.7%      3.9%
T.umlov a          0         0         0        0         0         0
% DIC        0.0%      00%                 0.0%      0.0%      0.0%
LAPAN         1985 (               222        40       174        5         1       442
Dk*tbdn                            96.7%      28%       0.6%    100.0%
1892(4               436        65      356        37         9       NS
Obbluion                           88.6%      9.2%      2.2%    100.0%
(844/A    98.4%     62.%    105.7%    640.0%    800.0%    104.8%
PrOMst(C)        0        es       26        33         7       131
% C/DA)        0.0%    260.0%     14.1%    103.1%    67.5%     26.3%
TWn~a()            0         0         0         1        0         1
% D0/C       0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      3.0%      0.0%      0.8%
UPI           195 (A)              472       350       666       74        45      1,627
Dktdbutfon                         85.2%      9.2%      5.6%    100.0%
1992(6)              769      296      1,024      183       108     2.382
DWRdibuon                          77.9%     13.9%      8.2%    100.0%
(84f/A    62.9%    -14.9%    49.3%    147.3%    140.0%     46.4%
Pro4et (C)       0        12       25        70        45       1i2
% 0/(84        0.0%    -23.1%     7.4%     64.2%     71.4%     20.1%
Twno.rD )          0         2         0         2        2         6
% 0/C        0.0%     167%       0.0%      2.9%      4.4%     3.S%
Total         1985 (A             1,096    1,525     2,125       159       73      5,s66
Dstbu0oon                          90.2%      8.7%      3.1%    100.0%
1992()             3,061     2006      4,655      623       213    10,556
Okbuion                            U4.8%     11.3%      3.9X    100.0%
(64/A     54.1%     31.6%    119.1%    291.8%    191.6%    79.9%
Pfho   t(C)      0       174      217       340       112       643
% CA(8-        0.0%     3862%     &6%      73S%      80.0%     18.0%
TWnoFr(I)          0         3         8         5        3        19
% DIC        0.096     1.7%      3.7%      1.5%      2.7%      .3%
tot.: Me 1. An M_ment of Pe_frme and bMpot of Rens



- 113 -
Table 3.6 (b): OP Handbooks, Reports and Jnformadon Booklets
1.        OFP Promotion Booklet
2.        Policy Handbook (3 editons)
3.         OFP Handbook of Tasks and Procedures
4.         Monitorng and Evaluation Handbook of Task and Procedures
5.        Instuction for utilizing the BP 3000 and OFP computerzd database
6.         Pre-deparie Orientation Booklet and Country Specific Supplement
7.         SRO Directory of fellows and their current status (semi-anmil)
8.         Montlly Management Repors
9.         Semi-anal Progress Rer
10.       Monthly and Quartedy Reconciliation Report on Current Account
11.       Semi-nnual Re-entry Newsletter/Mazine
12.       Re-entry Guidines
13.       OFP Selection Booklet



3.7          Sbtus of aenat
A_roMSd                                                                                    De_ebb
cry, of C.ve.m*                                DemlpIm at Cvenant                       far CAmnPla                 staiun
oamL                               Solect cndildae he palctilpaton in Purt A of* teComplie
AJe b3.03 (I)                      Noj"eca in aoeoIdancwllh  i   and pro0e*dus
_actory to the bol
Are  3.04 (M2)                    Paqwo ea e, y    beginnIn  anry 1, 19, and         eveq ficd yer of lbo         Co"mld
tra  to to Isk fr reisw and commen, a            pojet perdd
detai fdlowdirp pogram  rt   iowing Gooa
Yewr
Artick 3*3 (1()                   PunIsh to the Dank details of a reninteptis progrm       0a11/87                Compied
for seviow   d         to mm   that the neo'
am Bsi  ase put fie-rd u
AtIe 3.06 (A) M                   MaInai a Poect St1rig Commite whi sol                                           Coarplied
prov  i candidate aelotreview budgti
proo _ede finani podss and coaant'
comntcts; coordia  Pat A of to Poject, nd
aprv proposas for pe-eunIdpenen eud; 
and dsll Wlnude, o _mt     of each Project
letitktoa  a teptesenate of BAPPINAS
At"  3A06(1) (1)                          a OnPPr            o3 ec                                                Compliod
Uit(OEtPI(OFU).
Atc  3.06 (C) (1)                 Flrh  to the Bean  or r(viwew and comment any                                   Complied
propood of d=W In do ma_omn and s8fi
pattensw of the OPPU.
Arile 3.06 (D) (Ml)               Bambis a mon ng ad evaluaion           for the           1213118S               Complied
a%*r program satl oy to thdie Bik
Atil  3.06 (1) (W)                Funish a mM   trm  vatluation of the Ptr* 4tto the       123118                 Comped
Bank for review and coibment.
AWcle 3.07 (1)                    T  estig Naio  Steerng Ommitte for the                                          Complied
UlJti  of Forig Aid for Traing CvH Swra
will maintain a suevr ri sonshp, incudin
motoig, advice and consultation, with he Poject
-tok  Committee.
CovmCodw
MlmSupervlsotof lmplmnmntnM2-Moqouat ptosgn
72mCoaatractie, stedarda I 5-OaM  0 AM Plan ad boding



- 115 -
3.8      Misons and Bank Resour_es
W-IL BE BM=SI) AME OIS EM $MO INP=                      31Od 3MISSI= AND
CtUN MISN
a     Use ofBan   eore
Sbge of Projet Cyde              planed                     Fia
(Saffweek)
Through Apprsal                    NA                        21
Apprais Thugh Board                NA                        36
Pr,seion
Board Presentation                 NA                         3
Through-Effectiveness
Supervision 1/                     NA                        46
PCR                                NA                        10
Tota                              NA                       116
I/ Note: Incbding e_std time snt as part of prepation (1/16 of the total) and supervision
(1/8 of the total) for the follw up Professional Human Resources Development ProjecL
Source: MIS, 12/17/92



- 116 -
b.   Miss-
Mon.eat  of  N.mber of   Speciaizations
Mission     Perons       Rqpresented
Throug 11/1983                13          3           E, C, P
AppraIsal       10/1984        19          4          E, C, P, S
1-2/1985       7            2            P, C
Tough          5-9/ 1985      NA           3            E, C, P
Supriion        10/1985        4            1             C
3/ 1986       4            1             C
1211986        4           1              P
2/1987         4           1              C
3/ 1988       7            1             V
12/ 1988      17           1              V
11/1989       25           2            V, A
21 1993       12           2            C, V
PCR             511993        14           2           CV, O
C-Eonomist
E-Educator
O perations Officer
P=Plming A*vLsory Officer
SmScience Educator
V-Science and Vocadonal Traing Specialist



IBRD 1798OR1
THAILAND           top                             11Z'                            -18                                 124'                         130                   NDONESIA
PHIUPPINES               POPULATION  DENSITY BY PROVINCE
BRUI,-*                                                                                              (1980 Census Data per km')
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUNEI 
)~~~~~ ~MALAYSIA                                      -, 
;MALAXSA                                                                                                                   59M - 11027
MALAYSIA 6    6. E - ES   5110-   592
44 -   109
so                                                      27                                                                                                        19-  43~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9-4
trN\,                    /             >1    7  K^UI0^NS2-ATtE
Z. SU  WESI sEaTAN                     X ,'                      -. 225
.28.
8. SDMASEA SJKEATA                                                                                                                                                                                               N                           ..
11 SJATAEBRA BRT                                                                      ~/                                                                                 zsh       .'
13 JIARATENU    ARAT                                 I M S           R     A lS                                                                                                                              .2/ o
I4. K GAKMM RTANSLTN~4                                                                         2
IS. LAIUURTNS TENG AR
25. UENGKU      nLiQeYHlsdadBhftlxlF($abtYa
20.SULAAWESA SELATAN                                                                              ". w4A+.
10.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR JAMBI
21, SUUATESA TEGARAT
12 WTERA UrARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~T   ofTAAIAL
23.KARkA NT A    BARAa
2.11138 K OSANA  TENGSBA                                                                                                            24ooGpaa  hamo,  dad 'booooeaeBo040 o
27. 1143                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40B
21, SULAWESI TENGGARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ JNUR   18



