-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r . . . .                                    - 
Document of
The World ak
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. 5425-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
June 6, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
C,muit h    a  iutu  *M    d__ M w   .n  may be  =W   by       plums  ony bi  te  perfeuame of
tIbdr 5ffdn  dufIw lb eu   -   me oghewiwi be didohus wlibm  Wadi Bluk authoIztIn



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
RP 1 million = US$909
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS             -   National Development Planning Agency
DOHE                 -   Directorate General of Higher Education
EEO                  -   Educational Exchange Organization
LPND                 -   Nonministerial Government Institute
MEC                  -   Ministry of Education and Culture
Menneg Ristek        -   Ministry of State for Research and Technology
OFPIU                -   Overseas Fellowship Project Implementation Unit
Repelita IV          -   Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984/85-1988/89)
STM                  -   Middle Technical School
Sarjana Muda         -   Similar to bachelor's degree but with lower status
Si                   -   Bachelor's degree
S2                   -   Master's degree
S3                   -   Doctoral degree
INDONESIA RESEARCH INSTITUTES
BAKOSURTANAL         -   Badan Koordinasi Survei dan Pemetaan Nasional
(National Coordinating Agency for Surveying and
Mapping)
BATAN                -   Badan Tenega Atom Nasional (National Atomic Energy
Agency)
BPPT                 -   Badan Pengkajian dan Penerapan Teknologi (Agency for
the Assessment and Application of Technology)
BPS                  -   Biro Pusat Statistik (Central Bureau of Statistics)
LAPAN                -   Lembaga Penerbangan dan Antariksa Nasional (National
Institute of Aeronautics and Space)
LIPI                 -   Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia (Indonesian
Institute of Sciences)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TabLe of Contents
Page No
BASIC DATA .....*................e....................                      iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY ............ .. ...                                 iv
I.  SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY  .s........&..*.... *..*.................        1
Overview .................................... ......o......1
Demand and Supply of Professional Manpower in
Science and Technology..................  *.* ......0..          I
Government Strategy for Provision of Higher
Level Manpowero... ...               ...........                 3
Other Donor Assistance ................................             4
Development in Science and Technology Research............         4
Bank Role and Rationale for Bank Involvement . ..........   ^    7
II. THE PROJECT ...............       .     ..  ....................         8
Project Objectives and Scope ..8........................           8
Overseas Fellowship Program ..... o......o  ................        9
Procedures for Selection of Candidates .................        11
Procedures for Program Iden tification ...........o...          11
Predegree Training ............ ..      .     ... ...... .      12
Research .      ......................................          12
Local Training Program ........o .........o                        13
Project Management .....        ................................  13
National Steering Committee ............. o ....... o......     13
Project Steering Committee ...........................          14
Overseas Fellowships Project Implementation Unit .......        14
Consultant Servicese..........a.........................        14
Educational Exchange Organizations .....................        15
Reintegration Program .......     ..........................    15
Monitoring and Evaluation ........................ ......       15
Implementation ............................... .O." .......... ......  16
Status of Project Preparation .................. .  ........      16
Project Cost and Financing         ..............................  16
Procurement    .............................................      18
Disbursement ....................................................  19
Accounts, Audits and Reports ............................         19
Benefits and Risks ......................................         19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
August/September 1984. Mission members inclueed V. Li (mission leader), B.
Fisher (planning advisory officer) and P. Adey (science educator, consultant).
This document has a restictcd distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their ofrfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



: |~~~~~~-i
Page No.
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................            20
- TABLE IN TEXT
-   1.  Summary of Costs by Project Componentm........                          17
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators............... e..... e..              21
2.  Fellowships through Bilateral Aid Programs...o............              23
3. Structure of the Government's Research and Technology
Organization .............                                            24
4.  Programs of Research Institutes.e............. e..       ee......       25
5. a. Current Staffing of Research Institutes by Academic
(jualifiationt...                                                  29
b. Training Requirements of Research Institutes. .......                30
c. Breakdown of Research Institute Staff by Graduate Degree
Currently and After   Updr                   a     d    e         31
6.  Fields of Study .......32
7.  Budgpt of the Research Intits t is.                                     36
8.  Budget for Local Training Program......*......*.e...... *a              37
9.  a. The Project Management System.......... .........em......            38
b. The Project Management Structure Chart.........a      r    t......   41
c. Staffing of the OFPIU ......42
10. a. Project Implementation Schedule...................                   44
b. Overseas Fellowship Program Schedule..........                       45
11. a. Summary Account by Project Component .....................           48
b. Summary Accounts Cost Surm                      a    r     y         49
12. Financing Plan............                                              50
13. Disbursement Forecast........o                                          51
14. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File...            52
MAP
IBRD No. 17980R1



- iii -
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING REPORT
Basic Data /a
General
Population (millions) (1982)                            152.6
Annual growth (Z)                                       2.2
Labor force (millions)                                   54.3
Participation rate (Z)                                 52.6
Employment by Sector
Agriculture (U)                                           55
Industry (U)                                              13
services (2)                                              32
GNP per capita (US$)(1983)                               560
Educational
Labor force by education
level (1980)                Primary & below        Secondary      Higher
Number (millions)                      45.9                 5.7         0.4
Distribution (X)                       88.3                10.9         0.8
Secondary
Number of institutions (1982)    Primary        Junior       Senior       Higher
Public                          109,574        4,327        1,666           44
Private                          10,588        8,412        4,307          438
Total                      120,162       12,739        5,973          482
Enrollment (million) (1982)
Public                           22.5          2.4          1.1            0.24
Private                           2.2          1.9          1.2            0.27
Total                          24.7          4.3          2.3            0.51  b
As Z of age group                  100          41           24              4
Graduates (1983)                  3.1          1.2          0.66           0.06
Public Education Budget (1982/83)
As percentage of GDP                                                        2.4
As percentage of total budget for public expenditures                       7.2
Higher Education (1982/83)
Expenditure as percentage of public education expenditure                  14.0
Average recurrent costs per student                                      US$27?
/a Sources: DGHE, Ministry of Education and Culture. Data are for 1982 or
the 1982/83 school year unless otherwise stated.
/b Includes universities only.



- iv -
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAI-NING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$93.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) strengthen
Indonesia's research and development capacity by developing
a nucleus of well-trained Indonesian scientific and
technical manpower through programs of study in science and
technical fields; (b) develop effective policies and proce-
dures for the implementation and monitoring of overseas
fellowship programs; and (c) develop and strengthen colla-
borative relationships between Indonesian and foreign
universities and research institutions. The project would
focus on the six key government research institutes in
science and technology, which would provide a pool of
qualified candidates for advanced training. The project
would provide overseas and local training and technical
assistance in establishing a management system and graduate
reintegration program.
The main benefit of the project would be the improved
technical and managerial competence of the project
institutes' staff and an increase in the country's stock of
well-trained scientific and technical manpower. The project
would also have a long-term impact on the university system,
which the Bank is assisting under separate university
development projects. The major risk arises from the
complexities of managing such a sizable and diverse overseas
fellowship program. The technical assistance to support the
establishment of a management system should reduce this
risk.



Estimated Cost: /a                                  Local   Foreign   Total
----  US$ millio …
Overseas Fellowship Program
Predegree preparation                        1.3      11.6      12.9
Overseas study                              18.2      49.6      67.8
Research                                     0.3       0.8       1.1
Subtotal                               19.8     62.0      81.8
Local Training Program                      16.2        -       16.2
Management
OFPIU Operations                             3.2       0.8       4.0
Educational exchange organizations            -        4.0       4.0
Consultant services                          1.4       1.9       3.3
Reintegration program                        1.0       0.2       1.2
Subtotal                                5.6       6.9     12.5
Total Baseline Costs                        41.6      68.9    110.5
Physical contingencies                     4.1       6.9      11.0
Price contingencies                       15.0      17.2     32.2
Total Project Costs                    60.7     93.0    153.7
Financing Plan:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
…---- US$ million -
IBRD                                -       93.0      93.0
Government                        60.7        -       60.7
Total                        60.7      93.0    153.7
Estimated
Disbursements: IBRD FY  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
--------------- US$ million -------       …-----
Annual             3.0   3.0   9.0  15.0  20.0  20.0  16.0   7.0
Cumulative         3.0   6.0  15.0  30.0  50.0  70.0  .96.0  93.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
/a   Project costs include a small amount of taxes and duties (about US$200,000).



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
I. THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SUBSECTOR
Overview
1.01      The recession in the industrial countries which began in 1980
started to affect Indonesia early in 1982 in two ways: initially through the
fall in the demand for and prices of the country's agricultural exports and
subsequently through the depressed oil demand and the fall in oil prices.
Since then, Government's policy has been to diversify its productive struc-
ture, particularly into nonoil exports, and sources of foreign exchange. To
achieve industrial diversification and growth, Indonesia would require an
increasing level of sophistication in its technology. The Government began to
emphasize the development of applied research, particularly in science and
technology fields, in the last decade. However, the major bottleneck - shor-
tage of trained scientific and technical manpower - remains a severe problem
which has hampered the progress of research and development. The Government
is making efforts to narrow this gap by improving its higher education system
with the assistance of the Bank and other donors. The upcoming Bank-assisted
Second University Development Project is specificaLly aimed at building the
scientific infrastructure at Indonesian universities, but this is a long-term
effort. In the short-run, however, this gap cannot be filled by domestic
institutions alone. The Government is turning to overseas study in subjects
where local academic capacity is low or nonexistent to help alleviate this
immediate shortage.
Demand and Supply of Professional Manpower in Science and Technology
1.02      The shortage of high level manpower is a national problem that
affects almost all sectors but is most acute in the fields of science and
engineering.  The Indonesian Institute of Engin rs has published figures
showing thp  there is only one trained engineer-  to every 5,800 people in
Indonesia.-   This compares unfavorably to ratios in other countries, e.g.,
Thailand - 1:3,000, India - 1:2,400, and South Korea - 1:600. According to
the Institute, the current estimated stock of engineers in the country is
26,000, of whom about one-third are in agriculture-related fields. The exist-
ing stock of engineers in nonagricultural fields thus total 17,000, of whom
I/  The Indonesian definition of engineer includes technical personnel in
agricultural fields.
2/   Mobilization of Engineers in Indonesia.  Indonesia Institute of
Engineers, December 1982, Jakarta.



- 2 -
about 30% are civil engineers, 7X chemical engineers, 10X electrical engin-
eers, 10Z mechanical engineers and the rest in other branches of engineering.
1.03      UNESCO estimates of manpower de:and show that 16,000 new graduates
in scien e and engineering are needed annually Co meet economic growth between
1984-89.-/ To meet this demand, the Government has set ambitious targets for
the growth of the university system during the fourth five-year development
plan (Repelita IV, 1984/85-1988/89). According to projections of the Direc-
torate General of Higher Education (DGHE), output in SI (bachelor's degree)
programs in science and engineering is expected to increase to about 11,000
p.a. in 1990 while that of graduate programs in these fields is expected to
increase to about 300 p.a. But these production rates still fall far short of
the country's demands. Moreover, to achieve these targets, DGHE estimates
that about 3,500 new teaching staff in science and engineering would be
required between 1983-89, of whom 2,500 should have graduate degrees. Total
graduate production in these fields, however, is projected at only 1,000
during this period.
1.04      The Government has increased its investments to expand the higher
education system in the last several years, increasing university enrollment
from 250,000 in 1975 to 810,000 in 1983. But despite these efforts, the
enrollment rate remains low. Total university enrollment in 1983 represents
only 4X of the age cohort, compared with 22% in South Korea and 21% in the
Philippines (Annex 1). About 455,000 students were enroLled in public
universities and 355,000 in private universities. The weakest areas are in
science and engineering, where pubLic S1 enrollment was only 50,000 in 1983.
Private undergraduate enrollment in these subjects is estimated to be roughly
equal to the public universities. Moreover, the rate of output from these
enrollments is extremely low: total S1 output in science and engineering was
5,000 in 1983 while graduate output has been 160 since the mid-1970s, wheat
graduate programs were first introduced. The low enrollment in science and
engineering reflects difficulties in developing domestic teaching capacities
in these fields. There has been an extreme shortage of qualified teaching
staff, and very limited investment in essential physical facilities such as
laboratories and experimental equipment.
1.05      Aside from limited physical capacity, Indonesian higher education
also faces major qualitative problems. University instruction and research in
Indonesia are adversely affected by inadequate staffing, paucity of inputs,
and low salary levels for university teaching, research and administrative
staff. Currently, onLy about 15% of academic staff in the natural sciences
and about 9% of academic staff in the social sciences hold advanced degrees.
There is a serious shortage of textbooks and other inscructional materials in
the Indonesian language. Library holdings are extremely few in number and
limited in scope. Students often have little access to laboratory and
practical facilities to balance theoretical classroom learning. The internal
efficiency is also low, due to such reasons as the Low level of educational
3/   UNESCO, "Proposed Staff Development Program for Craduate Education"
December 1983.



- 3 -
attainment of the faculty, insufficient time devoted by staff to teaching
duties and inadequate physical facilities.
1.06      Graduate programs which began only in 1975 would require consider-
able time and effort to reach international standards. The amount of graduate
level laboratory equipment is insufficient and much of what is available is
obsolete or in need of repair. Currently, the environment for scholarly acti-
vity in Indonesian universities is poor, with less than one fourth of faculty
actively conducting research. Research programs are typically feasibiLity or
evaluation studies and not the type of research required to nurture the deve-
lopment of an active scientific community. For the most part, university
research has been uncoordinated and determined primarily in response to
requirements of funding sources. It also lacks the means to establish and
maintain priorities and mechanisms for disseminating findings. The university
projects being financed in part by the World Bank will go a long way toward
improving the research environment of major Indonesian universities; however,
this is necessarily a long-term solution to the problem.
Government Strategy for Provision of Higher Level Manpower
1.07      The Government attaches high priority to expanding the capacity and
improving the quality of Indonesian higher education institutions to meet the
requirements for professional manpower. The Covernment's education sector
strategy is to provide a broadbased educational system, formal and nonformal,
which will produce the trained manpower necessary to promote a development
strategy focussed on increasing agricultural productivity, expanding
industrial capacity and improving the country's basic infrastructure. In the
short- and medium-term, expatriate manpower, short-term training programs, and
on-the-job training will help to bridge some of the gaps between supply and
demand for higher level manpower. In the long-term, substantial investment in
education beyond the primary level will be required. The Government
recognizes the need for continued development of the private higher education
system, and the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) provides subsidies,
guidance and encouragement through the Directorate of Private Universities.
In an effort to alleviate manpower shortages, the Government has set ambitious
targets for the growth of the university system during Repelita IV, which
imply rapid growth in all levels of public university enrollment. To enhance
the quality of public university teaching, the Covernment wishes to increase
the proportion of university teachers holding advanced degrees from 15S to 402
by the end of the decade.
1.08      However, given the low output, internal efficiency and poor quality
of university programs, expanding and improving domestic institutions suffici-
ently to meet the country's manpower requirements is inevitably a long-term
objective. Furthermore, graduate programs in many scientific and technical
fields do not yet exist in Indonesia. Consequently, the Government has
decided to meet critical shortages of trained manpower, particularly in scien-
tific and technical fields, through a greatly expanded program of overseas
training in conjunction with the development of domestic graduate education.
The beneficiaries of the overseas study program under the proposed project
would be expected to become the nucleus of the next generation of Indonesian
scientists and engineers capable of developing research applications relevant



to Indonesia's economic and social development and also of influencing
teaching and research programs in Indonesian universities.
Other Donor Assistance
1.09      Bilateral ashistance is one source of financing for overseas fellow-
ships, but the number of awards each year is insufficient (see Annex 2).
According to a survey conducted by the Covernment, out of about 1.500
fellowship awards funded by the major bilateral donors, only about 350 each
year arc for scientific and technical degree programs. The Government has
tried to solicit a larger number of feLlowships from bilateral sources but has
not succeeded in obtaining a substantial increase. In fact, a number of agen-
cies such as the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations which provided significant
support for overseas fellowships in the past, have largely withdrawn from this
type of assistance. In general, bilateral donors have not emphasized science
and technology subjects, making it difficult for them to reprogram their
training efforts quickLy enough to meet the Covernment's new emphasis on
overseas training in science and technology. Many of the fellowships offered
are linked to specific projects or restricted to certain fields. Overall, it
has been difficuLt for the Indonesian research institutions to plan training
effectively on the basis of bilateral fellowships, partly because so few are
availabLe, and partly because it is difficult to match the conditions offered
by the aid agencies with the particular needs of the institution.
Development in Science and Technology Research
1.10      The limited production capacity in the higher education system has
hampered the country's scientific and technological research which is
essential to its industrialization and development efforts. In the last
decade. the Government has invested in procuring equipment and physical
facilities for the major research institutions - the six nonministerial
inStituteS (see para. l.12e) - both with its own funds and foreign aid. This
includes a Bank-assisted project (Loan 1190-1ND) which financed equipment and
buildings for the National Coordinating Agency for Surveying and Mapping.
liowever, becausc of the lack of manpower to carry through the research pro-
grams planned. the facilities of research institutes are under-utilized, and
the budget allowance for research is consistently underspent. The shortage of
well-trained manpower is particularly severe among government research
institutions, which face stiff competition from the private sector for
univ.'rsity Xrada4Ites. However, the Covernment research agencies are expected
to play an impo:tant role in developing and testing new technologies.
1.11      Research Strategy.  Indonesia's approach to the use of science has
been to concentrate on its direct application to the nation's development.
Thus pure scientific research has been discouraged in favor of applied
research which can be shown to be directly relevant to Indonesia's needs - for
instance in improving agricultural methods or output, conserving nonrenewable
energy supplies, or increasing industrial self-reliance. Civen Indonesia's
wealth of raw materials on which manufacturing industries may be based, its
chronic shortage of trained manpower and heavy reliance on foreign expertise,
it is understandable and appropriate that the country concentrates research
resources on the immediate perceived needs of the country. Specifically,



Indonesia's science and technology research programs emphasize these priority
areas:
(a) the basic human needs of food, clothing, housing, nutrition, health
and education;
(b) energy and natural resources;
(c) industrialization; and
(d) the social impact of technological development.
1.12      Organization of Science and Technology Research.  In Indonesia, most
responsibility for research in science and technology falls on the Govern-
ment. In the private sector, the corporations which engage in research and
development are multinationals which conduct most research in their home
countries where equipment and manpower are available. The Government's
development expenditure on science and technology research was US$205 miLlion
in 1984, estimated at 0.2% of GDP. There are five classes of organization in
which scientific and technological research is carried out in Indonesia.
(a) The Private Industrial Sector. The research in this sector is of
minor importance, and directed mainly to the solution of limited
problems of imuediate interest to the manufacturer.
(b) The State-Owned Industries. Examples of such industries are
Pertamina (oil), Perumtel (communications), Krakatoa Steel, and PT
Nurtanio (aircraft). While the research and development activities
of these enterprises are more significant than those in the private
sector, they are still concerned with the immediate production and
development problems within their own industries. and so are rela-
tively narrow in scope.
Cc) Universities. Up until now, the capability of the universities to
conduct research has been limited by the shortage of qualified
manpower, the demands on their time of teaching and administration
and other constraints such as inadequate laboratories, equipment and
libraries (see para. 1.05). These issues will be addressed under
the Second University Development Project (see para. 1.18).
(4)  Ministerial Research and Development Centers.  Each Ministry has a
conter for research and development addressing problems of particu-
lar concern to that Ministry.  Those whose R&D centers would be
concerned with scientific and technological research include the
Ministries of Agriculture, Forestry, Comunications, and Health.  In
practice neither the staffing nor the laboratory facilities within
the Ministries permit extensive or demanding research projects, and
it is caoen practice for ministerial RD centers to contract out
more substantial work to universities or to the nonministerial
research institutes (see below).



-6-
(e)  Nonministerial Government Institutes (Lembaga Pemerintah Non
Departemen, LPND).  There are six LPNDs which are concerned with
science and technology and related research (see Annex 3):
BAKOSURTANAL   -  National Coordinating Agency for Surveying and
Mapping
BATAN          -  National Atomic Energy Agency
BPPT           -  Agency for the Assessment and Application of Tech-
nology
BPS            -  Central Bureau of Statistics
LAPAN          -  National Institute of Aeronautics and Space
LIPI           -  Indonesian Institute of Sciences
1.13      The LPNDs are the key institutes in science and technology research
and were built up over the last decade to take the lead in this area. They
support the ministerial research centers by undertaking research contracts
from them, the universities by providing facilities and staff, and private
industry by developing industrial technology and testing materials. The LPNDs
usually disseminate their research findings through the appropriate line
Ministry. For instance, they work with the Ministry of Public Works on appli-
cation of testing techniques in public construction projects, with the
Ministry of Industry in providing extension services and development of tech-
nology input models of small-scale industries and the Ministry of Transmigra-
tion by conducting aerial photographing, mapping and surveying of transmigra-
tion sites. They also have close ties with universities, which were recently
formalized through cooperative agreements allowing university staff and
students to use the facilities of the research institutes. Many research
institute staff also teach at the universities. Consequently, staff trained
and employed through the LPNDs have a broad impact on the development of
science and technology and industrial development throughout Indonesia.
1.14      The LPNDs are equipped with the best research facilities in the
country as a result of considerable public investment for buildings and
equipment over the last decade. In addition to existing facilities, a Center
for Scientific and Technological Research, PUSPIPTEK, is being built to pro-
vide extra laboratory facilities for all of the LPNDs. This center is receiv-
ing about US$300 million of aid for equipment from various donors such as the
Federal Republic of Germany, France and U.S. The remaining constraint is the
lack of manpower.
1.15      Although the head of each LPND is answerable directly to the Presi-
dent, and the ministerial R & D centers to each Minister, the Minister of
State for Research and Technology (Menneg Ristek) has an overall coordinating
role for all research carried out by these bodies. The Minister is advised by
a National Council for Research and Technology (Dewan Riset Nasional). The
coordinating role of Menneg Ristek means in practice that the five-year plans
and individual research programs proposed by the LPNDs must be approved as
contributing to the national priorities. The structure of the Government's
research and technology organization is shown in Annex 3.



- 7-
Bank Role and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.16      The primary focus of the Bank's assistance to higher education has
been to help the Government in meeting critical manpower requirements, improv-
ing quality, and strengthening the management of the subsector, without adding
an unsustainable financiaL burden on the government budget. Since 1977, the
Bank has financed five higher education projects in Indonesia, with a combined
total of about US$250 million in higher education related components. These
include two teacher training projects, two polytechnics projects, and a uni-
versity development project. In December 1983, the Bank joined the Government
in launching a Higher Education Sector Study. OED Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for two education projects in Indonesia and
the lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project. The PPAR for the Technical Education Project (Credit 219-IND) (No.
2998, dated June 2, 1980, Sec M80-440) stressed the importance of including
fellowships for development of teachers and school administrators and
appointing key staff for project implementation in a timely manner. The PPAR
for the first Agricultural Training Project (Credit 288-IND) (No. 3508, dated
June 30, 1980, Sec M80-527) stressed the importance of advanced preparation
and the need for carefully designed and suitable technical assistance
components.
1.17      The first University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND) was
designed to strengthen university management and raise the quality and number
of graduates in engineering, science, agriculture and economics at three key
universities. The prr-ject includes technical assistance for developing
policies and improving management and teaching quality at the universities.
Although the project suffered from several implementation problems, most of
the policy targets, such as teacher workload, staff-student ratios and
admission policies, are well on the way to being reached.
1.18      The Second University Development Project proposes to follow up
previous efforts by developing graduate education with focus on science and
engineering fields, improving and expanding undergraduate education through
the introduction of new programs, and strengthening university planning and
management. To develop graduare education, the project would build the aca-
demic infrastructure at 16 Inter-university Graduate Education Centers through
the provision of technicaL assistance, fellowships, facilities and other rela-
ted inputs to: (a) increase the number of teaching staff with master's (S2)
and doctoral (S3) degrees; (b) provide nondegree, inservice staff training;
(c) develop graduate and undergraduate instructional materials in Bahasa
Indonesia; and (d) finance and manage research programs. To improve under-
graduate education, the project would finance technical assistance and fellow-
ships to train faculty and develop curriculum and instructional materials to
establish five new undergraduate programs, and increase the output of domestic
graduate faculties to improve teacher qualifications for undergraduate
instruction.
1.19      The proposed Science and Technology Training Project would com-
plement the university development projects by meeting critical existing
shortages of professional manpower, particularly in science and engineering
fields for which indigenous programs are yet to be developed. The proposed



project is an integral part of the effort to develop graduate programs and
increase the output of high-level manpower in Indonesia. Because of close
linkages between the research institutions and many of the leading Indonesian
universities, the project is expected to have long-term impact on not only the
research institutions but also the quality of teaching and research in the
university system. It is also in direct support of the Government's strategy
of promoting overseas studies as a short-term measure to fill the manpower
gap. Recent Bank projects have supported this strategy by including large
overseas fellowship components. In the short run, overseas training is a
rost-effective way of meeting part of the country's manpower requirements,
since the low efficiency, as well as the quality and capacity of local
institutions do not permit the production of the same quantity and quality of
manpower as well-established institutions abroad.
1.20      The proposed project would also play an important role in the
Government's efforts to accelerate industrialization. The Government is aim-
ing at a quantum jump in its stock of scientific and technological manpower in
order to acceLerate the country's industrialization in Repelita VI (1994-
1999). Overseas training would not only produce the manpower the country
needs but also enhance technology transfer. Bank participation in the pro-
posed project would help establish ties between local and foreign institutions
to enable Indonesian researchers to keep abreast of developments in their
fields.
1.21      Another aspect of the rationale for Bank involvement is the
institution-building effect of the proposed project, which would develop
effective procedures for implementation of fellowship programs and of local
capacity to manage the implementation of these programs. From the late 1950s
to the early 1980s, the Government did not strongly encourage Indonesians to
study abroad. Overseas fellowship programs started to increase in recent
years through Bank and other aid projects. However, because of lack of
experience and contact, the country has had to rely on foreign consulting
firms to manage its fellowship programs. The Government recently embarked on
an effort to promote self-management and a national committee to coordinate
overseas fellowships was formed (see para. 2.18). One of the tasks of the
commitcee is to formulate selection, preparation, placement and administrative
procedures. The procedures evolved from this project would help shape the
national procedures and benefit future education and training projects.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Scope
2.01      The principal objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the
country's research and development capacity by developing a nucleus of well-
trained Indonesian scientific and technical manpower. Since the major part of
this study program would be provided in overseas universities, the project
would also seek to develop effective policies and procedures for the implemen-
tation and monitoring of overseas fellowship programs. A third objective
would be to develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between
Indonesian and foreign universities and research institutions.



-9-
2.02      The proposed project would be centered on the six LPNDs under the
umbrella of the Minister of State for Research and Technology (see para.
1.15). Most of the candidates would be existing staff of the LPNDs. Oppor-
tunity would also be given to scientific and research personnel employed in
other agencies but engaged in research related to the LPNDs, and for a number
of undergraduates. All participants would be contracted to work in an LPND on
completion of their studies (see para. 2.08). The LPNDs were chosen to be the
vehicles for selection of candidates, their sponsorship during training and
subsequent employment because they are the key research institutes in science
and technology that are equipped with the basic infrastructure. They also
have close linkages with the other research organizations, particularly
universities, which the Bank is assisting under separate university
development projects (see para. 1.18).
2.03      The project would consist of the following components:
(a) overseas fellowship program: provision of about 1,500 overseas
fellowships and the necessary predegree training in language and
other skills, and development of candidate and program selection
procedures;
(b) local training program: provision of about 1,200 fellowships in
Indonesian universities for degree programs and short-term training;
and
(c) management: establishment of an overseas fellowship project imple-
mentation unit (OFPIU) and provision of local and foreign consul-
tants to carry out placement, monitoring and evaluation of the over-
seas fellowship program and the reintegration of returned fellows.
Overseas Fellowship Program (US$81.8 million excluding contingencies)
(Annexes 4-7)
2.04      The project would finance about 1,500 fellowships in areas directly
reLated to the project institutes' research programs in the next decade.
These programs are designed to meet the country's development goals in the
areas of basic human needs, energy and natural resources and industrialization
(see para. 1.11). The request for fellowships is based on the manpower
requirements of the research programs of the institutes. Such matching of
skills would help ensure relevance of training to the work programs the fel-
lows would return to. Because of the wide range of activities of the research
institutes, the fields of study of the fellows are diverse, but are mainly
concentrated in various branches of engineering and the physical sciences. A
small number of fellowships would be in related fields such as managce=nt and
information science, contract and patent law and statistics. These subjects
would support the scientific research programs and the institutes' social
science research which is concerned, among other things, with the impact of
technology on society. The Government gave assurances at negotiations that a
detailed fellowship program for the following fiscal year would be submitted
to the Bank for review each year, beginning January 1, 1986. Details would
include a list of the participants, their fields of study, the institutions
they come from and the overseas institutions hosting the study.



- 10 -
2.05      The 1,500 fellowships to be financed by the project can be roughly
broken down into 250 in PhD programs, 650 in MSc programs, 300 in BSc programs
and 300 in nondegree training. There would be four sources of candidates.
The first and main source would be 4,000 existing professional staff in the
LPNDs, of whom 750, or approximately 20Z would be upgraded in graduate
programs. A further 300 or 8Z would receive short-term nondegree training,
mostly in management, calibration, instrumentation and equipment operation and
maintenance. The current pool of staff who meet the eligibility criteria (see
para. 2.09) is about 3,000 people and expected to increase by about 500 by
1988 as new staff are recruited every year. At the peak year, about 500-600
staff, or 15Z of the total professional staff, would be studying overseas.
This is not expected to have detrimental effects on the institutes.
2.06      A second source of graduate candidates is the associates program,
which would broaden access to training under the project to scientific and
research personnel of other agencies who are closely associated with the
LPNDs' work. Most would come from government tz...earch institutions, but a few
may come from private institutions. About 75 graduate degree fellowships
would be awarded to associates. A third category of participants, also
expected to account for about 75 graduate degree fellowships, is the midstream
fellows, who are already abroad on other sources of funding, and are
conducting studies relevant to the institutes' research programs. Both the
associates and midstream fellows would be contracted to work in an LPND on
return.
2.07      To train middle-level technicians, about 300 fellowships would be
granted for undergraduate education, mainly in engineering degrees. As men-
tioned earlier (see paras. 1.03-1.04), the current availability of engineers
in Indonesia and the rate of production of engineers from local universities
are far from enough to satisfy the country's manpower demands. The shortage
is particularly severe among the LPNDs which face stiff competition from the
private sector for university graduates. However, the opportunity for
education and career advancement would offset the disadvantages of low
government salaries and serve to attract new staff. By sponsoring
undergraduates in this project, LPNDs can select from among the best secondary
school graduates for overseas study and contract them to work in research on
return (see para. 2.08), thus insuring a minimal supply of engineers and the
best talents to support their research programs. Undergraduate candidates can
be new secondary school graduates, first year university students or existing
staff of the research institutes with secondary school diplomas and several
years of work experience. (Selection procedures are described in paras. 2.09-
2.11.)
2.08      All candidates, including those who are not yet in government
service - private researchers and new secondary school graduates - would be
contracted or otherwise obligated to work in an LPND for two years for every
year of study abroad. The Government has traditionally sponsored mainly civil
servants for overseas study. However, the Covernment has embarked upon a
special policy to enable selected high school graduates who meet the
requirements to become civil servants and therefore become eligible for
overseas study under this project.



- 11 -
2.09      Procedures for Selection of Candidates.  The eligibility criteria
for degree candidates are:  (a) bachelor's degree for graduate degree candi-
dates and high school diploma for undergraduate candidates; (b) not older than
40; (c) preferably with three years government service; (d) good health; and
(e) proven ability from work records. EquaL opportunity would be given to
female staff.
2.10      The Government has designed selection procedures for this project by
drawing on the lessons from previous fellowship programs financed under other
Bank education loans, USAID, Ford Foundation, and others. These procedures
have been proven to provide objective measurements of the candidates' ability.
The selection process for degree candidates already employed by the research
institutes would involve the following steps: (a) each research institute
would prepare a list of its personnel who meet the eligibility criteria (see
para. 2.09); (b) each institute would conduct a first screening by examining
the academic and work records of the potential candidates; (c) the list of
candidates produced by each institute would be submitted to the Overseas
Fellowship Project Implementation Unit (OFPIU) under Menneg Ristek for the
next stage of screening, which would consist of two parts, a written e-Amina-
tion and an individual interview by a panel. The written examination and
interview methodology would be designed by testing professionals; (d) diagnos-
tic language tests would be given each candidate. Language proficiency would
not be a criterion for selection as it does not indicate the candidate's other
intellectual skills. This test would assess the candidate's language ability
so that he can be placed in courses of appropriate level; (e) predeparture
training would be given candidates who have passed the screening up to this
stage. On the basis of their performance in the preparatory courses, some
candidates would be eliminated, while some would be invited back for another
try during the next year's preparatory course cycle; (f) the successful candi-
dates would apply for university admission. The Government gave assurances at
negotiations that candidates would be selected in accordance with these or
similar criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.11      The selection of undergraduate program candidates who are still in
school would be different. They would be selected from first year university
students or new secondary school graduates using the MEC's normal selection
procedures for university admissions as a preliminary screening. From this
pool, the OFPIU would further screen the potential candidates for overseas
study through aptitude and achievement tests, some of which have already been
designed and tested in Jakarta. Successful candidates would have to pass the
incountry language training course before applying to universities abroad.
2.12      Procedures for Program Identification.  To place students in appro-
priate and cost-effective programs, a system of program identification would
be implemented in the following steps: (a) an Educational Exchange Organiza-
tion (EEO) (see para. 2.22) in each country of study would submit not more
than five programs for each field of study; (b) the OFPIU would review the
submissions and select a limited number of institutions; (c) a team from the
OFPIU comprising one representative from each LPND would visit a sample of
shortlisted institutions to assess their capabilities; (d) the OFPIU would
establish a list of favored institutions for each field of study. This
procedure would be repeated on a smaller scale in subsequent years of the



- 12 -
project in order to update data and identify new courses as needed. These
steps have already been taken to select institutions for the first project
year and the results are satisfactory to the Bank. Institutions selected in
the first year include those in the Federal Republic of Germany, France,
Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and United States.
2.13      Predegree Training.  To ensure success of the study abroad, candi-
dates need to be adequately prepared in language, foreign study skills and
quantitative skills. The project would provide for up to one year of pre-
degree preparation for each participant, in three stages: (a) predeparture
training - once the candidates have been chosen, they will be placed in
special preparatory courses conducted in Indonesia for up to six months in the
case of graduate students and a full year in the case of undergraduates. The
objectives of these courses would be to bring the candidate's foreign language
proficiency and quantitative skills to the level required for admission to an
overseas university and to orient him to the educational system he would be
studying in (this training would also further screen the candidates on the
basis of their performance); Cb) language training overseas - after a candi-
date's language proficiency reaches a certain level, he can proceed to a
further three months of laInguage training overseas; (c) pre-academic training
- on admission to a university and completion of the language course, candi-
dates would move to the university and enter a three month preparatory course
at the university to review their knowledge in the subject of study. The
Covernment has completed arrangements with language schools to provide
predeparture training for the first group of candidates.
2.14      Research.  The project provides for funds for research both overseas
and in Indonesia in the course of the fellow's study, and includes supervision
by visiting professors:
(a) Overseas Research Allowance - Provision is made for a fund to sup-
port the necessary research activities of PhD fellows during their
training. It may also be used for the costs of preparation and
production of theses. An average of US$1,000 is allowed for each
PhD fellow;
(b) In-country Fieldwork - A number of the PhD students would conduct
their practical research projects in Indonesia. The advantages are
that the research would be more relevant to the needs of Indonesia,
that the fellow would be working with equipment that he could expect
to continue to use on his return, and that the research could be
related to particular programs of the LPND. The program would be
arranged so that initial courses, reading, project identification
and research design would take place overseas. Data collection
would be essentially in Indonesia. Data analysis and thesis-writing
can be overseas. The project budget includes international travel
for these participants and a research grant for local research and
travel; and



- 13 -
(c) Visiting Professors - To establish long-term academic relationships
between the research institutes and academic institutions, the
project would have a provision for faculty members from overseas
institutions to visit Indonesia. Their purpose would be to pursue
cooperative research interests, assist in the supervision of stu-
dents' research, and familiarize the foreign faculty members with
conditions in Indonesia. Travel and other expenses for 48 man-
months are included.
Local Training Program (US$16.2 million excluding contingencies) (Annex 8)
2.15      The overseas fellowship program is part of the research institutes'
overall staff development plan, which also includes training in local univer-
sities and institutions in degree and nondegree programs. During the project
implementation period the institutes would train about 50 staff in PhD pro-
grams, and 750 in MSc programs. They would also finance about 75 selected
undergraduates in their last year of study as a means of recruiting new
graduates. In addition, short courses would be provided in areas such as
computer operation and administration.
2.16      Like the overseas fellowship program, the local training program is
based on the manpower requirements of the institutes' research programs. The
candidates would be trained in management and a variety of science and techni-
cal subjects that are offered by Indonesian universities and thus complement
the overseas program, which offers training in subjects where Indonesian
academic capabiLity is deficient. The criteria for selection of candidates
would be similar to the overseas program.
Project Management (US$12.5 million excluding contingencies) (Annex 9)
2.17      As stated above (see para. 2.01), one of the objectives of the pro-
ject is to develop a system for implementing and monitoring overseas fellow-
ship programs. The Government wants to decrease its dependence on foreign
agencies for project management, but at the same time, there will be complexi-
ties in the efficient placing, monitoring and managing of hundreds of fellows
spread across a wide variety of disciplines in many different countries. The
management model to be financed by the project would call for a division of
labor among local and foreign agencies. These are: (a) the Project Steering
Committee; (b) the OFPIU; (c) local and foreign consultants; and (d) overseas
educational exchange organizations. Their duties would change over time and
the reliance on foreign agencies would lessen as the OFPIU and local
consultants gain experience in the mechanics of implementing a fellowship
program.
2.18      National Steering Committee.  The Ministry of State for
Administrative Reform has formed a National Steering Committee for the
Utilization of Foreign Aid for Training Civil Servants. It coordinates all
government-sponsored overseas training, including that funded by aid donors
and is concerned with developing effective national procedures for the
planning and implementation of government-financed overseas fellowships. For
day to day operations, the Government has established an Overseas Training
Office, overseen by the National Steering Committee. The office is chaired by



- 14 -
the Deputy for Administration of BAPPENAS and responsible for the administra-
tion of two fellowship programs for the core agencies - General Participant
Training II funded by USAID and the training component under the World Bank
Ministry of PubLic Works Training Project. This national committee would
establish an advisory and consultative relationship with the Project Steering
Committee.
2.19      Project Steering Committee.  The Ministry of State for Research and
Technology would have overaLl responsibility for the project and would consult
with the National Council for Research and Technology on policy matters (see
para. 1.15). Project activities wouLd be supervised by a Project Steering
Committee chaired by the Assistant for General Planning under Menneg Ristek
and include representatives of the six research institutes and BAPPENAS. The
Committee has been established with the following responsibilities:
(a) approval of all candidate selections; (b) review of budgeting procedures
and quarterly financial reports; (c) review of consultant contracts;
(d) cooperation with other governmental fellowship programs; and (e) approval
of proposals for postreturn independent study. The Government gave assurances
at negotiations that the Project Steering Committee will be maintained
throughout the project.
2.20      OFPIU.  (Annex 9c) Responsibility for the day-to-day functioning of
the project would be in the hands of the OFPIU which has been established
under Menneg Ristek. However, as Menneg Ristek does not have a budget, funds
for the OFPIU would be allocated through the BPPT budget. BPPT is one of the
LPNDs and is chaired by the Minister of State for Research and Technology.
The OFPIU would coordinate the implementation units of the research institutes
in conducting selection of candidates and overseas institutions proposed by
the LPNDs and consultants, and be responsible for disbursement of funds and
signing of contracts with language schools and consultants. The Bank's
financial assistance to the OFPIU includes funds for equipment and inter-
national travel. The office is adequately staffed for the initial period of
project implementation with a director and seven officers from the Education
and Training Division of each LPND. However, it may need to be expanded
during the peak years. The Government gave assurances at negotiations that
the OFPIU would be maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Bank throughout
the project and proposals for changes in OFPIU management and staffing
patterns would be submitted to the Bank for review and comfent.
2.21      Consultant Services.  The project includes financing for 168 man-
months of foreign consultant services and 360 man-months of local consultant
services. The consultants would assist the OFPIU in implementing the project,
particularly in the identification of education institutions and programs
overseas, establishment of a data base for the program, the monitoring and
evaluation system, and the model for reintegration (see paras. 2.23 and
2.24). The data base to be established would cover: (a) manpower require-
ments for scientific and engineering personnel to support scientific, research
and industrial programs; (b) training programs at home and overseas appropri-
ate to develop the required manpower; (c) admissions requirements and proce-
dure to such programs; (d) cost factors of these programs; and (e) academic
records, data and research of the Indonesian fellows.



- 15 -
2.22      EducationaL Exchange Organizations (EE0s).  These would be agencies
within each country highly experienced in placing, caring for, and monitoring
overseas students, and intimate with their country's higher education
system. An EEO can be a government body, a commercial firm, a university or
group of universities, or an individual, provided that it can fulfill its
obligations efficiently in terms of speed, accuracy and human care.
Negotiations for contracts with the EEOs are underway (see para. 2.28).
2.23      Reintegration Program.  A critical aspect of project management
would be arrangements for successful reintegration of fellows returning after
the completion of study overseas. The project would ensure that management of
the LPNDs plan their programs in such a way as to ensure that returnees' newly
developed skills would be put to good use. Psychological problems of
reintegration and potential conflicts with co-workers and management also need
to be addressed. The Government gave assurances at negotiations that details
of the reintegration program would be developed and furnished to the Bank for
review and comment by July 1, 1987. It would have these elements:
(a)  LPND Planning - Most participants would return to jobs in their own
LPND. Each LPND, with the assistance of the information system
operated by the OFPIU, would plan for the return of their staff from
study abroad. Each institute would be informed of the academic
program of the returning fellows so that realistic expectations of
their new knowledge and expertise can be made and incorporated in
their work responsibilities.
(b) Re-entry Program - All returning fellows would participate in a re-
entry orientation program dealing with research issues as well as
the psychology of re-entry after several years abroad. It would
also deal with the difficulties of returning to old jobs with new
perspectives. To encourage returning fellows to share their new
learning with their colleagues, each fellow would be given a period
of time to translate papers written abroad into Indonesian. These
papers can be published by the institutes and presented to col-
leagues. Also, special funds budgeted at about $800 per person
would be awarded to fellows for independent research relevant to the
institutes' programs and as follow-up to the work they were doing
overseas. Funds for books, periodicals, and materials estimated at
up to $500 per person would also be included.
2.24      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The OFPIU and the local and foreign
consultants mentioned above would contribute to establishing and operating a
monitoring and evaluation system.   The OFPIU, with the assistance of the
local consulting firm, would establish procedures and standards that would
oversee the total program and ensure achievement of all aspects of the program
in terms of academic performance, cost erfectiveness and administrative
efficiency. The consulting firm would be responsible for the operations of
the monitoring process, providing the OFPIU with the necessary input. It
would also prepare evaluations based on the output of the monitoring system.
The EEOs would provide data required for the effective monitoring of the
feLlows. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that a
monitoring and evaluation system satisfactory to the Bank, for the entire



- 16 -
program, would be established by December 31, 1985, and that a mid-term
evaluation of the project would be completed and furnished to the Bank for
review and comment by December 31, 1987.
2.25      As part of the monitoring and evaluation process, mid-program con-
ferences would be held. At the end of the fellows' first year of studies
overseas, all felLows in one country who came at the same time would be
brought together for a conference to evaluate the EEO's performance, the
quality of the academic and preparation programs and provide general feed-
back. The conference would also provide opportunity for the LPNDs to send
representatives to meet their participants and update them on events in
Indonesia. Within six months of the return of a particular group of fellows
to Indonesia, a postreturn seminar would be held. This would provide
opportunity for feedback on the relevance of the fellowship programs to their
jobs and the quality of the reintegration program (see para. 2.23).
Implementation (Annex 10)
2.26      The proposed project would be implemented over an eight-year
period. The long project period is necessary for two reasons: (a) because of
the large number that needs to be trained, the departure of the participants
needs to be phased over the first five years of the project. Some of those
leaving the fourth to fifth years would not return till the eighth year; and
(b) the reintegration program would be implemented mainly towards the last few
years of the project, when the participants return. Given the importance of
reintegration, Bank participation in this process is desirable. The comple-
tion date would be June 30, 1992 and the closing date December 31, 1992.
2.27      Candidates would be tested and selected a year before the beginning
of the academic year of the country of study. Successful candidates would
receive up to a year of predegree training. Contracts with consultants and
the EEOs would be signed shortly after loan effectiveness. The monitoring and
evaluation system would be established by December, 1985. The reintegration
program model would be developed by July 1987 and tested during the latter
half of the year on the first group of returnees.
Status of Project Preparation
2.28      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  The research
institutes have carried out the initial screening and identified about 1,500
potential candidates. Most of them have been taking language courses offered
regularly within the institutes. The OFPIU is arranging for further language
training and placement of the fellows scheduled to begin studies in the aca-
demic year starting September 1985.  Communications with numerous EEOs and
overseas universities have been initiated and selection processes have begun.
Project Cost and Financing (Annexes 11 and 12)
2.29      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at Rp 169.1 bil-
lion or US$153.7 million equivalent including contingencies and a negligible
amount of taxes. The estimated costs by project component are summarized
below in Table 1. Project costs include: (a) overseas and local study;



- 17 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Total
Foreign    base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  exchange  costs
-- (Rp billion) -        -- (USS million) -    --   ()
Overseas Fellowship Program
Predegree preparation         1.4    12.7    14.1    1.3    11.6    12.9         90        12
Overseas study               20.1    54.6    74.7   18.2    49.6    67.8         73        61
Research allowance            0.3      0.9      1.2    0.3      0.8      1.1      73         1
Subtotal                 21.8    68.2    90.0   19.8    62.0    81.8         76        74
Local Training Program          17.8      -      17.8   16.2       -      16.2       -        15
Management
OFPIU operations              3.5      0.8      4.3    3.2      0.8      4.0      18        4
Educational exchange
organizations                -       4.4     4.4      -       4.0      4.0    100         4
Consultancy services          1.5      2.1      3.6    1.4      1.9      3.3     59         3
Reintegration program         1.1      0.3      1.4    1.0      0.2      1.2      20        1
Subtotal                  6.1      7.6    13.7    5.6       6.9    12.5      56        11
Total Baseline
Costs                45.7    75.8   121.5   41.6    68.9   110.5          62       100
Physical contingencies          4.6      7.6    12.2    4.1       6.9    11.0       62       10
Price contingencies            16.5    18.9    35.4   15.0    17.2    32.2          53        29
Total Project Costs    66.8   102.3   169.1   60.7    93.0   153.7           60       139



- 18 -
(b) local and foreign consultants; and (c) locally procured and imported
equipment and books. Bank financing under the proposed loan would amount to
US$93.0 million, equivalent to the estimted foreign exchange cost, or about
60X of total project cost. The remining US$60.7 million would be financed by
the Covernment. Cost estimates are based on April 1985 prices. Costs for
overseas fellowship training were estimated at about US$18,000 per man-year
(including tuition, living and academic allowances, travel and management).
This is an average based on a recent survey conducted by the Bank on fellow-
ship costs in various countries. The contingency allowance of US$43.2 million
includes: (a) physical contingencies (US$11.0 million) estimated at 101 of
base costs; and (b) price contingencies (US$32.2 million) calculated on the
basis of the following pe-:entages: local - 8Z for 1985-90; and 5Z for subse-
quent years; foreign - 5S for 1985, 7.5Z for 1986; 8X for 1987-90; and 5S for
subsequent years.
2.30      Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million has been included to
cover project expenditures incurred after appraisal i.e. August 31, 1984.
These include start-up costs for the project management system and the costs
of preparing the first group of students for overseas study in the academic
year beginning September 1985.
2.31      Recurrent Costs.  Annual recurrent expenditures generated by the
additional research activity under the project are estimated at about
US$1.0 million (at 1984 prices) in 1992. This includes increases in operation
and maintenance and staff saLaries. It represents an increase of about 4% in
the research institutes' recurrent budget and would not pose a significant
burden on the Government. Moreover, in addition to government allocation, the
institutes have other means of cost recovery, such as carrying out research
contracts for other agencies, to cover their operating costs.
Procurement 4/
2.32      Equipment to be procured under the project is estimated to total
about US$300,000 including contingencies and would mainly consist of office
equipment such as microcomputers and typewriters. They would be off-the-shelf
items not exceeding US$50,000 for each package and would be procured on the
basis of a comparison of quotations received from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Bank's guidelines. Books and journals in foreign languages
would be purchased directly from publishers or distributors after negotiating
for the best discounts. Consultants would be selected in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers". Foreign
academic and scientific institutions to which students are sent would be
selected from a short list based on the programs offered, costs and other
factors (see para. 2.12), and would be reviewed by the Bank.
4/ Due to the absence of civil works procurement and the small amount of
equipment procurement, the table on "Procurement Arrangements" has been
omitted from this SAR.



- 19 -
Disbursement (Annex 13)
2.33      The proposed loan of US$93.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
on the basis of: (a) 1OOZ of the expenditures for overseas fellowships, study
visits and predegree training; (b) 1001 of the foreign expenditures of
equipment, 1001 of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 701 of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; (c) 100l of the expenditures
for consultant services; and (d) 1002 of the foreign expenditures for books
and journals and research allowances.  No disbursement would be made for local
training and local research and operating costs. All disbursements would be
supported with full documentation, except books and journals, research
allowance and office equipment under $50,000, which can be submitted in
statements of expenditure.
Accounts. Audits and Reports
2.34      All agencies involved in project implementation would prepare and
maintain separate project accounts in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices. Accounts and documentation suppo-ting statements of expenditure would
be maintained separately and would be readily available for review by visiting
Bank missions. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) accounts, statements of expenditure, and financial statements for each
fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (b) copies of the audited accounts and financial statements, for
each fiscal year. together with the auditor's report, would be furnished to
the Bank not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year; and (c)
a project completion report would be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the closing date.
Benefits and Risks
2.35      As a result of the proposed project, a nucleus of about 1,500 scien-
tists, engineers and other professional-level manpower would be trained
abroad. On return, they would directly strengthen the research and develop-
ment functions of the LPNDs, with the objective of accelerating the country's
industrialization. They would also considerably add to the small stock of
Indonesian scientific and technological manpower conducting research in the
public sector and would influence teaching and research in their fields of
study in Indonesian universities. The links between local and foreign insti-
tutions that would be established during the project would also enable
Indonesian researchers to keep abreast of developments in their field. Fur-
thermore, a mechanism for assessing degree courses overseas, placing, admin-
istering and monitoring students would be developed and the reliance on
overseas agencies reduced.
2.36      Through the establishment of the management system proposed under
the project, the risks inherent in such a large fellowship program would be
reduced. The selection procedures involve a series of specially designed
tests and interviews that would ensure the objective selection of the best
people. While not foolproof, they should mitigate pressures to select candi-
dates on bases other than merit. The selected candidates would go through a
preparation program for training in language and basic skills, which is expec-
ted to reduce the failure rate. Another risk of the project is that of brain
drain. However, from past experience, the return rate of Indonesian students
is high. A survey of the 1,300 participants trained overseas in the General
Participant Training I Project sponsored by USAID showed that the return rate



-20-
was--99Z.51   However, patterns may change in the future.  The monitoring
system to be set up under the project, the continued contacts between the
research institutes and participants during their studies overseas and the
reintegration program would serve to minimize this risk.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      During negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  details of the fellowship program for the following fiscal year
would be submitted to the Bank for review each year, beginning
January 1, 1986 (para. 2.04);
(b)  candidates would be selected in accordance with criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.10);
(c)  the Project Steering Committee would be maintained throughout the
project (para. 2.19).
Cd) the OFPIU would be maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
throughout the project and proposals for changes in OFPIU management
and staffing patterns would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment (para. 2.20);
(e)  details of the reintegration program would be developed and
furnished to the Bank for review by July 1. 1987 (para. 2.23);
(f) a monitoring and evaluation system, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the entire program, would be established by December 31, 1985 (para.
2.24); and
(g)  the mid-term evaluation of the project would be completed and
furnished to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1987
(para. 2.24).
3.02      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$93.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Indonesia, for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
five years.
5/   Project Paper, General Participant Training II (Project No. 497-0328).
April 1983, USAID, Jakarta.



-21-
UPINDrsu    anocArm   CO1V%MOF              mcgoom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.inuz 
cw coucanto   njcwwmr.  ADOIX  UTZ MR       air con   rmw7.533
cxr  m     AS PWCW            NX~IMOnUM?I Lrlg4liW PIrXA ?OUDN          pimmra                    IZ   m solmUCNAFmm
am    FW.  CAM&   MWT GM TOZAL CMM  ALIACA         Nay 2. 3163      cm          TITS9OAM     RLLT7                   M=          TO        EL
TM    11S Cn   da           m ocosm    PzCHi  s    noc                                    vm MPI   SCN                             VZOF                a
comm     FJ6 79      1 1.1           * 1.004.6   99                               b       "         N -  -     1038%4                                         -      Izb
nammiLm      t 7n   IlL.0 0 (03)  m0     i  to  OOVUU           pa0  3sicN        Ci)    3*21 9     a.         5 is        190i   9in            mAil       1i         35140
=  ZKALM     s     14.69  6.3081      -a 34                   3    3      8                o        100        21         -.           990         73        13       20.10*
SlUm         ~~~~79   8.3  12.25        O.0         16.2        31   10   10      ggb       905      100         lam       19.A         100          705       10'7    36*¶0'1
moma          8~~~~2 jAb    7SOb                                49  25    11                555Is                32        23.1          26           -        21         -
UI            51~~~~a  4.2     233      2.0m        19.*        4322527           25        2OE       25         27        20.2          12           38       17        1.80
mu            8~~~~~4 0.4k    36        3A.-        25.0        49   29   22      49        74        40         39        -             45          36        2s        0.40
3313082            54      0.4      410      3.0         11.9       7326G ...    10              42        64         40        67.0          40          30        L9       0.A0
31310ft4           31    32A.8      1409    2.99         11.1       45   25   20       52        42        20a        6)        19.3          93'         14        66       0.4S
14m              62    17.49    4206    5.7v           2I.2b       45  16-           4*b      113        so         26        14.4          33          to        26        -
1.05wm             65      1.49    4359    54            14.9       28   32   24       339      IOU        41         48         9.6          46          21        21        1.30
ISN*AWA          77     5.5      320      4.0W        24.0        532   25   19      so       9468      33         539        5.0          28          14        22        3.j097
mumi               SI      &.lb    22010   1.3           u.4         28  16  25        23        62        23         63         5.1          12           4        21       0.40
flSi?nus          53      i0A   1,1709    4.3           4.0        46   36    7       g09       93        72         23        33.0         100          30        22        1.86
IMMIL         53      S.5b    26011   2.7          24.5       *72   1b612         376       95        62         40        12.0         I10           7        14       0.40
swui0Wz            79   0.A 1.770   3.9    22.0R    3033IR105                                                         23    -                 -           -         -    -
SOML1&             a1      4.3      2110     1.5         10.5        sob  44    *b    "b         22b       iob        2gb       9gb           80    ~    32b        22        1.00
SON          ~80    I9.2k    350k    3.0            -           66439  ...    32            SIZ       Go         26         2.4          44          14        16       ...
SNAIMXL*           53      0.79    9406    3599b         20.4        31   34   13      630       93        50         23-       31.0          95          29        Le        3.00
71314131           5      1854      260      39          17.7       47  10  16         790       9ob       B7         43        31.0          196          3        20'      0.30
N3AM               U0    12.6b    30109    -             16.3'       23b  SO  20b    48          512       61         34        -             17           5        23       0A0
24130              8L    29.8b    2109    7.7            26.4       - -10o             349       76        25         30        21.0          40          to        28        2.00.
ZIIUZ              so      5.7b    5649    4.5p          11.3        45   23   22       "b       93        80         45        12.9          19          36        22        1.50
SDOOM         51      7*79    7009    3.1           19.5        62232    6        449       90        55         30        20.0          as          Is        23        o.ia
SW           ~~79     3.4b    320k    6.3W          235        43221    5    jib            62        20         46        14.0          30          31        43        1.00
MIN=          853     6.5      210b      .0k.                  4229  23           9         16        23         37        24.3          16           2        24        0.03
alIflOf            78      0.2      510      2.9?        16.07       228  43a  205   -           747       438       5SW        1,            20'         147       26        I.30y
CA.16.             79  2.2  280   May8  20.48                         --   -    -    -                                6587   -                -           -         -        0.7057
1W            ~~~    ~~76  4.4  120     2.4k.,      21.79       -   -   -        1          257       -          77         -            -            307      21       0.10
CMO                75  1.5  670  9.05'?   2.7'7   -  -  -   -                                    -         -          3697   -                 0          -         4397  4.00'?
QaUI               77   0 A 3,41D   3.7h7                 5.47                  -    -    -                           4487"by                 -           -         1997   2.0061
CALER              77      0.4    2z         3.356        *.gb       46   25a   6's  10b         4097      90         276Y      44*78         40          12bx7    17  
C0401              76  11.3  400   407    15.-*    -  --    -                                    71687  -             2797             -                  i'my   z a
Gob"3              79      5.3      290      4A4P        -           258205 230521               36        26         28        20.040       a55          16        29        7.00
lVOm cow           I1      g.Zbi*@0b   10.0             45.0        3346  13          309        60        56         63.      26.0           47          15"?    26          3.91097
LIRmA              s0      1.9      SW       4.4         31.6       43  232  2i        0         52        22         35       20.4           76          22       20        2.90
N=1.               SI      7flb    Ig0       6.2         21.7'      38   21   11    10           20        60         44        13.7         66            1        31       0.051
n3IrLE?5a          75      146b    2206    5.5           34.9        3234325          17b        32        40         4          2.0          30           9        23       0.37
lam          ~76      5.2      3m      4.33         14*b57     528 43'   58    a            17        36'        418      28.7a         40            2       349       0.20
IROMI              77  82.6  910  4.17    96    -  --   -                                        -    -              -    -                  -.    1087  23   0.177.
USdA            .77        5.3      650     5.0         23.0        46  3420          10         34987    -           4317'    -              20          10       21        2j091
52M1.10mc         77      3.4      25      4.Ob        16.0k                         j - -  h   378       -          35       25fl9         84           I3m      22        O.609
TM0                75      2.4      400      4.58       26 40       30'  25'  210   If           74        40         5497     35.0           52          32987    459       1.4o9
ANEFUMU    ;F   117      2.210      2.7         10.9        623 3'10Il    939           so        52         17        -             87          21         a       22.00
5*5*96S            79      0.2   2.770      5.7         11.1        34 36  11         939        99         7        24        -             97           75        I9      -
8*53650            7       0.2   2.68       8.51'?      221.1'      42'  3'168 LG      99g      100w       "a         277      19.ja         95          757       20y      -
ULZIIa             00   5.4   350   4.1'7   20.5'    -   -  -   62                               747    -            20m    -                -            137    -          12.607
MAXII,             79  116.3  1.770         3.8          6.2         51 - 14          76         7337      -         22'        459b         61'          1387     1487    12A2b
co=m               76  10.9  1I5M    3.297    12.09    -  --    -                               j39987   -            3497   -                -           SOW3  2097  11.909?
GRlUAM             ID    26.1b  1.1509    3.3           25.0        33   20   20    #lb          75        26         32        6.4          -            47       20       10.0287
awn45C Utck        s       2.2b  1.S109    8.4           21.1       40   27   23    90           92        77         33        3.5           77          40        27      14.00
cm33               78      9.8      -       8.0         11.0        -         -    - 96         112ow      g5         tsb7     -             95           71687    13       19.0391
SUNIMCEWU.    s0           5.3   1.030       2.9         12.0       39  2322          ggb        so        31         5O         3.2          94          20        33      14.00
wamiS              so      5.6931.130        6.09       26.7         63  3116         51        L0S        -          36       12.6          56           47        14      29.00
83. 353.50         77      4.4      640      3.497      23*j97      64    6   27    62           82987    32          39       -             41           26bxy    2797      7..9ow7
.DAWAL.           78      6.8   3.030       1.7'?      12.69.      -    -     -      -          69687    -           3397     -             69 15987    j997               5.307
601*5              76   0.8   630   8.197    13.8by   -   -  -   -                               99987   -            32b7   -                -           59637               34391y
NAMl               so      5.09    230       3.4'         7.9'?     65    9    6    23b          s0        20         41        19.0         62a           48       27       0.60
sowEOS             78      3.6      520      3.5%7       16.397     62'  158  1I"    60          59987    20'         4397      12.85         680         21KY      19       ai0m
JAMuCL             s0      2.1   31.10       6.5         13.7       37  43  20        90         98        se         40         2.3         95          61        22        8.00
NBC100             s0o   435      150        4.7         17.0'      46   39   13    92           95        33        44           .5         56           36        17      10.20
miZOmwxa           78      z.69b  6109o    3.09'         14.0b      -    -    -       9gb        53b1t    24          379      -             -            2668     309      -
F&lEM              75      jA9   1.5309    S*.9y        21.AW       420  335  13    52b          "by       -          2597     11.6,         ass          5flb     2797    2D.4091
1AGX i             79      3.031.140         1.4'        14.2       42317  20    84              53        32         23         3.1w        76           22        12       0.70
1RW                s0    16.6   1.000        3.6         16.3       53  11519    s0              52        36         39        9.5           59          29       22       146.407
1315288  & T05.   77       1.1   3.930       4.867        8.89      48   32   20    95           95        91         30        10.3?        49           62       26       -
oEMia              78   2.9  2,100   2.5                  9.4h    -   --994    1059'   -                              24b                     -           549    -          17.505
VUUU31.A           75    164A   3.440        S.wr        18.99      - -- 6             2        30698      -                    --                        3898      17      21.107



-22 -
fugp 2
ONmegrim  ranmT            mmII U                               a    oun?m  Ihoso
NW  m          "  m-         OROSWUu                 MMI m             r    s!      ow        mMMtme                        MINO
IdX     r.CAU  EMT  0    M   OM           ALONTD n rnwzDun.0u'gma  vt               m    urts   ma?m psa v nm m.    m- Isa              gm
VW4 In"S. (onU)  M          ¶0I T   oovmaNS   P1  SW0 at    Ci    Rnaw' cuaa            r         M  a.      uirni       awe       i         matte
(1919) (3979)   UmfcaZO     amiinmn           (2)       (1974)   Cs)       (2)    fOAms  Ow/wftai           CZ)        (2)   TaMOR    CZ)
(1)     C2)       (3)          (4)          (3)         (3)      C7)      (a)       (9)        (30)        C31)       (12)      (13)   (3A)
am T               310m    2.    7.      1       3         22     775       77        2        23        9.0         43         35       17       4.00
Doemu         SW      2.1         9.3       70   24   ~~6  323         93       63        37       31.0         74         27        6       330
mow1              U - 3935*j3            7.7'       20.3        6  24 33        is        99       9         43       19.0        In          14       30      21.40
inLaxuz           34   133Jb  I37gb    5.           22.7       39  443179   7gb           973      97        26       132.2        90         32       22       4.0
rIlsM u1A.        62     3.3    3 20o       3.4     19.0       40   17   22    -          G0       724       31A      13.0         33         Use    27         3.00
p2llavIm          79    4833     69ob    2.en       14.0       64   36  -       735       64       4         31        3.1         s9         53       26      21.00
$1NOMPOO          so     2.4  4*420      2.7         4.:7      39   40   4,   103         92       43        33        6.2         96         3        22       ".60
UKIUIUL 61         3     0.35    Gobk   *JW         39.4       4123420           1        73       a         27       10.4         40         22       is       240
TIM21m            W0.47.25    723k    2.4           20.9       39      is      66b       96       -         17        9.3         M92                 22       40
IiuuAm           79    92.3b     go     3.lv       30.1'?     31 17230         22b       63       -         32        3.0          -          4       23       1.63
Brim4             so  1.2  so  3.4    11.0    - ---   10   l2a                                          -        -          -                 -    -    -
2002              77   G39.      210     2.97       9t967    -     -    -        36       "IL      -         41             -                 26       -        *J037
UwaL              32  13.05  330b  1.4    -                    -  --    It    70    -                        36             -                 21    23    3.705
p=sta             32    07.1b    260b   2.0          7.0       36   20   24      22       s0       41        30        S.i         34         21       is       3.00
mm. KNoLl 18ars30 AMuCA
AP603331346             I "1.3   -       1.7         3.7       47  19  11        12       3351     69        375                   62          a       22b7     1.00
iaulao            79    16.3   3.770     2.93       12.3       343  264  333   23        3eV       424       37        7.37        333        291      26       2.70
mom1              32    43.23    53L3    4.33        7.9       31a  253 243    4          73'      30        343       9J33        932        424      194     17.60
74     9.3  4*140      2.6W       10.6b      37   26  23               9751      -         295       6.2?        -          7953     2711    17.605
Iwo               79    36.9     -       5*70Y      24.1Wy    -    -    -       30       101"u     -         328      -            -          4433     23'      4.903
nma               79    12.6   2.710     4.-W        6.967     -    -    -      -        1067      -         23       -            -          4247     29&      941031
ILNInu            a1       Ab  4.460     6.301      31.331          -    -      96         3       94        29        -9                      1       34      31.00
266.5        0~1    2.2    .15       47         1032       19   4    13      05     1003      IsU       32        7.2          93         32P      23      19.00
1UA               79  2.2   -    -                  16.6331  - --Sp96    -                                   Is    -                -         4"M   -    V.066
306000            so    39.5    740      4.2o       17.33      36  44   20      26        SW5      35        2        19.7         40         23'      21       4.30
Ono               62     0.b  3,93gb    2.24'       12.73      -    -    -       30b?     713      63        23       -                       it 1     14
966000*1          7t    9*35  2,06       2.A        22.2       so   26   if    73         97       U         3I"      12.3        3an         43'      1701     .7:30
uMZL            76    22.1   2.100      3.951       6.21                       96      jg4huf    -         2IS      -            96453    225                 10.061
09A33             74,   37.   4,92       2.17y      1G.67       -         - -    -       935       -         29b                              6751     -       244619
SIMIJL            76     3.6   1,170     4.4i       10.3        3 2321s    36            S7AY                335b      -6                     4151     235     32.4
260311u           79     4.4   1.10)      MY        19.0       42   39   13    4b        10ow      a         395      12.3         30         303      30       6.A0
2vmw         33     47.5  1.230      3.3        24.2       30  22   24      735     110       71        31        6.0          33         26       i1       6.00
WOMN A3.          so     46i     420     I..        22.0       94    7    7    2i5        27       123       267      17.0         as          3       20        3.30
tU  .3.R.      *2    i.5    4mb    7.4            9.7       639  143   03   33         61       34        23       22.0         4417                20       2.26
rnrnvjrns.vu         MxIi
cowwxz"t             34              93      70  GO   67    S1         92       GO        93       63           73         91       as      as
uAuWS                                  (1.-          (3.7-  C23- (6-  (1.   cI-    (22-         (12-       (17-    (1.4-         C10-       (1-      (3-     (0.03-
10.0)         54.3) 94)  46)  33)    99        119)      M9        77)      47.0)         100)      64)      46      2.0)
Qmmurclaenflmgor                        3.4          21.7      31 3622          31       93       s0        43       20           61         47       2M      21.0
IbdIam.                      4.0          14.1     43 2319          33        33       61        35      132           4          26       22       3.7
Loweiri                      3.0          11.0     36 21  13        23       00        35        26        9           40         14       19       1.0
Quargla kW1stIu.z                       1.3           5.4    6.3  7.5  4.3   23.0      19.0    22.5        7.0      3.6         23.5       34.3       3.3      3.0
mom.:                                   4.6           17.0     442636n    32             76       St        36       36           62         31       23       4.9
stands"rdk.iation                       1.9            3.7     12310    7       29       27       24        11       13           27          23       7       7.A
Iladian:                                4.0           14.0     43 261  3g        3       03       41        33       11           63         as       22        5.
SWAIM,1                                                     -
- DATuM UNATAlLlMZ                                        A - 06135 iiZOR t0 Las1 tRa                       I * HI3I310F OF UOATIhh (MI) ONLY
IMNrniILfSN   OR1 ICi LIOZUE                           a - 06213 Mm3  wcar iUU Lot3 lam                   T - irni M0  SUM1 000136. ONLY
? 34A13 00725163                                          U - OUNINSriti3                                    U - P931.C RPMeZtlat 65.
*  2CL6S I'AMt-?7   flUMSIS                              3-i GP                                              - IuMA.i  093a-AU 32131TI3
Y -352600 Sam=
COX-Am I ..d 2: Usrid bmk Arlas or 226 auminume.
Cslenm 3 to 14: IMON sitasom.. Cnvzrnmust scare.. andir Umegoo 31311311cua ysurhuok.
Cowpazstivs Zbmtioo Dauta a"e  aseful tothe owaautcioa of warleup education 67stem  and asu"Lya   of rslatiws &Loea  of Wedestimas  doews2emea Ieum  warima
coasaTIa.   mawer. en che  eeals of  thean  data. croueeatiaul eMstriam  .53.1  be appeeaebud etch grnat CaUtisa.  auta prosented In th u .v3. table bae"
bow. co.uctud largelr y 51Lshk wialeus from, govrnmsnt oaerong-; te reusiadar ar, wstff "asntlume or dgta fran gine. qf feats how es Sawe531313 tewa,dif
dufiuitlens and. within haUlt.. to chuck thu accuracy of the data. Uswerehslaa. embc duew awe .1t11 iptfut1 In gsvral roaomette ad tOe Doak iSo usfthi   to
laprev thus progroevemlwy - the actual.. of ics peteatlonal wark. 2%. thu wue of thav. deta. the faUawi.g qualifications s53.1d be hapt in .Init
W -) ldcotlemu  a  df laud In thu table Includes all edacstlam and truIaiq. huth jamal and  uni-farnul.
C2) vPrSi.ry education refer to eduwAtlo at thu firet ltwl md aocanudry- educatlee refers to all .dunfestu at the nocondary level reaxwdleus or typo
(e.s.. sunerl. tathilcal. atrimlcmzu).
(3) -1UteruL7cj'  era   Casl. 6) ane often ehcalmud frawcuntry, cmaa.ua. In eawy eanuutri  tbuy ar e ay, aonoxmtleu man  It Is domuhefl that euy wutfors
defatiasaow f iitsrats ban W". foucada culamotetly.
(4) -P.51c o.peadlter  JLu edscstieu  (Cela. 4 and 3) referm to all capItal ..d remereat e euIt.. deVOted to OducAtio  5Y PubUC aVW qm.a-POUSic
(S) hralonuct ratl., (cala. 7. *2 und 14) refe to aedol yeur un are thu purcaataq of aligibla children onmilled full-time In the appepragite schoo.
isSue end privats by lael. ?buy "ar  oft.. sobjuct to a wide murgis of oryr In the duw.pio,I  enmtrile alog to warlatoma s Inthe accuracy of bastc
data (l.a.. auu.upecific ieom2ati am n onrollust). Enrollmsnt figler. pq.utlf are htgbsr thus thesombr of etudenta actuaully In sebhgl. Over-agsi
stout shame Iacmlson Is I.ndicated by' feotmesee ale isa1s latau the ration.



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRtAINING PROJECT
Fellowships through Bilateral Aid Programs
Total
no. new             New Sd/iTech Aw/year            Pose. avail, to LPND/rear
country &awards                                            Non-                               Non-
agency                  per year        PhD/Mfl    BS    degree  Total   PhD/MS    IS    degree  Total                                 doament.
DAusrai                      000                    -       50     10         6      -        4        10       Flexible placing allows fellow choice, but majori-
ty related to agriculture. Possible to arrange
with LPND.
AUIDP                       35             20      -        -      20        -      -        -        -        Award, linked to certain universities scheme.
Britain
British Council            ISO            65      10       25     100       10      5        5       20        Some possibility for undergraduates may not
Include languale training.
CInda100                                            -        -      10       40      -       10        50       Key fund with soft loan up to 1,000 scholarships
in Canada only, mainly undergraduate ever 5 years
from 1986, with emphasis on vocational education.
Franc*                  100-200              55      -      35       90       10      -        5        15       Feallows either submitted by Ministry of Education
and O.mleure or project-related.
Germany
DAAD                    12-20               7      -        2       9       20      -       10       30        Only federal awards and some foundation avards
administered by eabassy for DAAD given In current
columns. Possible colimna also Include sany state
and other foundation avards.
Netherlands                 Soo               -      -       90      90        -      -       40        40       Generally high-level courses, -at International
Education Centers In English.
Now Zaalaud                   30              6      -       14      20        S      -        -         5       )betly one-year postgraduate prograss.  Academic
year starts in February.
United States                350            125      -       75     200       is      -        5        20       Nbat traininl Is related to projects, but under a
neaw program, GPT2, sowe awards could become avail-
able.
approximately
Total                1.50-0           338      10     291      639      106      5       79      190



-  24 - -N          E
@g'i~~~~~
4-l
.tS   ,  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Yg     A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~IX
!W § k  X-+~~~ 
*        X         gig1



- 25 -
ANNEX 4
Page I
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOCY TRAININC PROJ6CT
Proeram. of the Research Inntitutes. 1984-88
Below are brief descriptions of the six LPND  that are con-         2.  SATAN (National Atomic fnergy Agency) Is reeponsible for
cerned with technological and scientific reeearch.                  the reenrelh and technology a*eociated with radioactive
materials. SATAN is concerned therefore with exploring for
1.  BAKOSLqTANAL (National Coordinating Agency for Surveys          radioact.ve ores throughout Indonesia and advising on the
and hkpping):  BAXOSURTANAL'. principal reeponsibility is to        feanSbility of exploiting Indonesta's natural rcsources of
coordinate uapping and eurvey efforts in order to provide a         *ech ores.  The research and technology a*eoctated with
national inventory and evaluation of natural resources and          atomic energy as a power source is also the responsibhilty
environmental condttions.  Current project. include research        of BATAN.  A different aspect of radioactive m_teratle with
studies to improve the management system for base *apping           which SATAN I  concerned is the productlon and application
production, the development of a methodology of multistate          of isotopes with industry, medical and agricultural applica-
remote sensing for making an inventory of  sago palm.  Other        tions.  There are currently two nuclear reactors in opers-
studies Include serial photography and the use of shuttle           tion, one in Yogyakarta and the other in 2andung.  A new and
iemging radar.  Studies such as theme provide the basic data        much larger one is being built near Jakarta with aid from
essential to the development of national economic planning.         the Caermn Covernment.  This is expected to be operational
by 1986.
Program for Repelita IV
Program for Repelita TV
1.01 Basic mapping of Inland dimeneiona, including geodesic
surveya, basic topographic mapping, survey and resolu-        2.01  Complete the reactor complex at Serpong and use its
tion of international boundaries, and survey and reno-              associated laboratory support production center to
lution of administration boundarles.                                make radioisotopes snd rsdlopharsac-uticale, as well
as the development and production of elements of
1.02   a sic mapping of ocean dimensions, including survey                nuclear fu le.
and mapping of shipping lanes, ports and rivers; car-
tography, the revision of old mape and production of         2.02  IntensLfication of exploration and estimation of
new ones; research into tides; and the integretion of               stocks of ores with potential for nuclear energy, and
data from old guides (translated from Dutch) with new               pilot-ecale processing into quality nuclear fuels.
data.
2.03  bte application of isotopes and radiation in the
1.03  Naking an inventory and evaluating Inland natural                   fields of preservation, medlcine, agriculture, live-
resources, including geographical surveying, the pre-               stock, hydrology, sedimentology and others as outco ea
paration of a resource atlas, the survey, mapping and               from atoric energy which serve the basic neede of man-
compilation of data on natural resources.  The survey,              kind as well as *everal areas of Industry.
mapping and compilation of data on social econonic
resources and remote sensing.                                 2.04  Research and development In the field of reactor
safety, with exanination of fuel elements and other
1.04  Making an inventory and evaluating natural resources                components to provide feedback and quality control for
at sea.                                                             the production of such fuel and components.
1.05  Research in the fields of geodesy and inventory build-        2.05  The development, production and maintenance of nuclesr
ing of natural resources.                                           instrumentation and other equipment, in order to
improve technical skills to enable and maintain the
production of m_chines and industrial apparatus within
Indonesia, more economically and with less reliance on
outnSde expertise.



- 26 -
Page 2
3.  DPP Teknologi (Agenc9 for thb  Assesment *ed ApplIcation      3.03  Industry
of Technology) was  establiehbd In 1978 to control and evalu-           -  completion of PUSPIPTEK research facilities at
ate progress for the aseesment and applicatlon of techmol-                 Serpong
ogy. and assews. apply and further develop the technology               -  protection and safety of workers ln the shipping
for Increclagi   the quality of llfe:  human *-ttl-oent,                  tndustry
industricl proceses .on   rgy conversotn and conervation,               -  huan resource development
*lectronics and informtics.  One of UPPT's tasks lo to foo-             -  mom transportation systems
ter technology transfer and to encourage cooperatlon between            -  sectoral studies on the transfer of ctchnology and
government and private orgasimatione vithtn and outdide                    induetry
Indonesia.  *PPT has responsibility for aseossing proposcln             - applicatton of LlUited glemnt Method and *athema-
for scientific and technological projects and making recon-                tic. syote  control
wAndationa on the appLication of technology.  It also baa               -  reserch on industrial rw materials
responaLbillty for the development of laboratories and other            -  rsearch on olar energy ship, and tests with
pbysical facilitles for the use of other LPKD and  l &o the                ferroce ent ships.
*tate-Gwnd enterprises.
3.05 Social, econoomlc legal and constitutional matters.
Proarem  for XApelit- TV                                                -  feasibility study for CiAnt Lquatorial Redio Tele-
scope
3.01  * dic neds.                                                       -  heltb progress for mothers and young children
-  studies of foods in tranmtgratton areas                       -  socioeconomic enhancement of the  timika people
- development of model sago plontations in Vast Java              -  simple water processing plants for tran_igration
and Kbluku                                                        ares
-  inventory of Basa  potential in Indonesia                      -  development of resercb facilities and Infrastruc-
-  operation of ptlot plant for single-cell protein                  ture, and the capability of rceserchers
production                                                    -  f-eLsbility study for incinerator in Jakarta
-  research into udl shrimpo in Wmna.                             -  environmental ipact analXYsi of PT Nurtanio air-
craft industrioe
3.02  lltural reaources and energy                                     -  study of rural syst em
-  OTEC PLAXT systm for electricel generation                     -  anhsnc_et of the role of the light industry sec-
- completton of hydrodynamtc rseearch center                         tor
- construction of pilot plant for the utiltzation of              -  the legal system and technological regulAtions.
lantoro in glos_s
- ue of biogme for irrigation pumps
- improvenst of ethanol pilot plant and bimems*
energy reserch center. and completion of ethanol
distribution station in Panjng.
-  bench-cale experiments on ethanl production froe
- development and utilization of energy in rural
areas.



- 27 -
ANNbX 4
4.  BPS (Central Bureau of Statistics).  Sines 1960 BPS has         5.  LAPAN (National lnstitute of Aeronautics and Spaca).
been reponsible for carrying out numerous statietical ecti-         LAAN's responsiblity L  for "flying objects," encompassing
vities assigned by the Coverneent sod on bebalf of the Gov-         both aircraft and satellites.  In addition toe  mctentiftic
ernent, including the national census of populetton, plus           and technologieal capacity, LAPAN deals with iesues of air
the coordination of statistical activities of all Covernsent    and space lw, apace biology and medicine, and econaomc and
agencies at both the central and regional level.  The top           social planning.  In genersl, LAPAN's concern tn to support
priority among UTS's research activities are the national           national development by pioneering, guiding, developing and
censuses of population, agriculture and economies.  BPS is          coordinating the activtties of aerospace utilituston through
also involved in various socioeconomic surveys, a cost of           the development of aeronautic technology. research and
ltving survey, sod studies lnto the methodology of popula-          lnvesttgation.
tion registration and secondary data compilation.  Further-
more, US is responsible for inforaing the public of the             Program  for Repelita IV
objectives and usefulness of statistics. and the agency Is
expected to facilitate statistical research by providing            5.01  Research into the atmosphere to tiprove the quality of
data.  UPS has Its central headquarters in Jakarta, 27 Pro-               weather and climate predtctlon.
vincial branch offices and 287 offices In Regencie. Under
the auspices of UPS. the Akaded Ilum Stattitic (Academy of          5.02  Research to support the establishment of the invntory
Statistics) provides e three-year course leading to quslifi-              and evaluation of natural resources by satellite sur-
cationm in statistics.  The Academy has been a mejor base of              vey.
recruitment for UPS, as well as supplying statisticians for
many goverument agencies.                                           5.03  Research Into satellite communication and teladiffu-
sian system.
Program for Repelita IV
5.04 Research and development related to vind and solar
Progrms for development and Improvement of statistics                     energy.
include:
-  an economic census, 1986                                       5.05  Research in support of building up aerodynamic
-  an intercensus population survey, 1985                               technology In various induatriae  - for instance role-
-  a living cost survey. 1988                                           vent to bridge building or car menufacture.
- preparation for the 1990 population census.
5.06 Various projects for the provision of terreetrial
physical data.
5.07 Provision of inforestion on aspects of progress ln the
aerospacial science and technology.



- 28 -
ANUU 4
*.  LIP! (Indonesian Inetitute of Sctencee) it tcir laorget         6.03  Research and devlaopment
of the LPND.  In addition to its cne researeh  LIPI's func-               -  agrtcultural resources
ticr  Include adviming the Government on the for.ulation of              -   artin  resources
national .cience policy. offering guidance to other r-eserch              -  atneral. water and land reources
Institutlons and workers, promoting *cience education and                 -  biotechnology and genetic engineering
mlni otatilng cooperative relations with International scien-             -  electronic engineering
tific bodie.  There are ten research institutione within                 -  instrumentation
LPI, 8 of which are concerned vtth natural sciences:                      -  metallurgy
Notional Biological Institute. National Institute of Oceano-              -  material technology
logy. National Institute of Ceology and Hi'lng. Nntional                  -  chemical engiassring
Inatitute for Chemistry. Physics. Netallurgy. Electrotech-                -  Lnforestlce
niques- and Inatrmentatlon.  There are also Notional Inutt-               -  environmsntal managment
tuten for Economtc and Soclal Research. and for C4ltural                  -  polittcal studies
Studies, c nd a Notional ScientiCfc Nacomentation Canter.                 -  economic studies
Thene institutinoc are situated In Jakarta. oandung and                   -  studies in the husnitlee
Serpong.                                                                  -  cultural studies
- studios In letters and philosophy
Prorm for RaelItta IV
6.04  ScLentific and technological servicen
6.01  Dita and information processing for science and tech-               -  development of an effecttve system for national
nology.                                                                documentation and mnintenance of scientific infor-
-  development of a data bae eatioo
-  study of social and cultural dynamics                            -  development of an effective national system of
-  Otudy of natural resources and energy                               standardization. calibration and mwasurement.
- study of technological development
- proepecttve study of long-term scientific and
technological development.
6.02 Development of scientific ewareneos and capabllity.
enhance_nt of R and D mnaemsnnt
- development of scientific *Sareness in society.



-29-                              A1N  s
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Staffing of Research Institutions by Academic Qualification (1984)
Sarjana
Institute           STM /a    Muda /b      Si/BS     S2/1S      S3/PhD     Total
BAKOSURTANAL           97          19         36       13          0         165
BATAN                 830         321        487       20         15       1,673
BPPT                  221         111        623        7          7         969
BPS                   144         684        119       40   -      5         992
LAPAN                 222          40        174        5          1         442
LIPI                  472         350        686       74         45       1,627
Total          1?986       1,525      2,125      159        73        5,868
/a Middle Technical School graduate.
/b Similar to a bachelor degree but with a lower status.



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Overseas Training Requirements of Research Institutes
1     2           3            4           5       6          7    8            9
Total                        Total
Associates  Midstream       grad   lJnder-    Total    Non-   fellow-
Institute                   Ph D    MS       program      program    1+2+3+4   grad    degree   degree   ships
BAKOSURTANAL                   5      15           2            2         24        2        26       50         76
BATAN                         43    162          20           20         245        0       245      110        355
BPPT                          46    155          20           20         241      229       470       82        552
BPS                           12     30           4            4          50        0       50        42         92
LAPAN                         15      25           4            4         48        0        48      109        157
LIPI                          97    146          24           24         291       69       360       40        400
PUSPIPTEK                      0       0          0            0           0        0         0       54         54
Total Requests         218    533           74           74         899     300    1,199        487/a   1,686
Total Financed
by ProJect           218    533           74           74         899     300    1,199        300     1,499
/a  Those not financed by project would have access to other sources of funds.                                          0



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TICH1NOLOY TRAINING PROJECT
Breakdowen of Research Institute Staff by Graduate Dit ree Currently and After U prade Overseas
mg                                   PhD
Total                  I Total   Current   S Total               Z Total  Current   2 Total
Total   professional               profes-    plus      profes-              profes-   plus      profes-
Institute           staff   SI+Sl+S2+S3       Current  saonals   upgrade   sionals   Current  sionals  upgrade   sionala
BAXOSURTANAL         165            68           13       19.1       28        41.2         0        0         5         7.4
SATAN              1,673           843           20        2.3      182        21.5        15       1.8       58         6.8
BPPT                 969           748            7       0.9       162        21.6         7       0.9       63         8.4
PS                  992           848           40        4.7       70         8.2         5       0.6       17         2.0
LAPAN                442           220            5        2.2       30        13.6         1       0.4       16         7.2
LIPI               1,627         1,155           74        6.4      220         19         45       3.9      142        12.2
Total          5868          3882           159       4.1       692        17.8        73       1.9      291         7.5
Note. 
1.   Total professional staff Includes all staff vith Sarjana Muda qualificatloan  or higher.
2.   Assume no attrition from current levels.  Also does not Include new recruitment.  Asociates program and midstreas
progrm numbers not Included for the purposes of this table.



-32                              ANNX6
Page1
INDOIIESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOCY ITAININC PROJECT
leild. of Study (1985-92)
Won-
Plelds                                                   Ph.D  NS   BS   dogrn-
BAKOSURTANAL
Geometric Geodesy                                          1    2    1      5
Physlcal Geodesy                                           I    I   -    10
Aerial Photography                                         -    I   -      5
Cartography                                                1   2    -    16
Resource Management                                        1    I
Urban Planning                                             -    1   -      -
Rural Plannig                                              -    I
Reglon Study
Integrated Survey
Geaoorphology                                              -    1
Rmote Sendins
Coputer Sclence                                            1    2    1    14
T'tal                                                   5   IS    2    S0
BATAN
Reactor Phylce                                            2    4    -     2
R etor Technology                                          2    4    -     3
Thermohydraulice                                           2    4    -      I
Nuclear Technology                                         -    I   -      6
Health Phylcs                                             1    6    -     4
Nocbanical Englieering                                     2   1S    -     3
glectrical Engineering                                     -    3    -     7
Xnstruentatln Engineering                                 3   10    -     4
Nuclear Enginerlng                                        4   10    -     3
chmidcal Engineering                                       5   20    -     I
Electronics                                                6   16    -     a
Natallurgy/ Iterial                                        1    6    -    10
Physlcs                                                    1    5    -     2
Cemistry                                                   a   30    - 
Mathematics                                                -    -    -     2
Biology                                                    2    7    -     4
tlning Engineering                                         -    3   -       7
Geological Engineerlng                                     1    4    -    11
Ceoattistics                                               -    2    -     4
Geophysic                                                  -    2   -      3
mineralogy                                                 -    2    -     4
Nuclear Che-lcal Engineering                               1    3   -      7
Radiopharmacy                                              I    5   -      6
Geochemistry                                               I   -    -      I
Total                                                  43  162    -   110
a" TUCIOLOCI
Environ ent Engineering                                    1   10    -     I
harmecy                                                    1   4   10      1
Ustlimatics                                                2   10  10      -
Pbysics                                                    1   6   20      -
Aerodymmics                                                1    2    5     -
Aeronautics                                                1    2    5     5
Eloctronics                                                3   10  20      1
Urbon/Isgional Develop. et                                 -    1    2      1
Health Physics                                             I   -    2       1
Computer                                                   2   10    5    13
COmmitry                                                   2    4   10     5
System Sclence                                             2    1    5     -
Ecoelc-                                                    -    5   -      5
Induatrial l  nginerlng                                    2   11  15      5
Industrial Psychology                                      I    I   -      2



- 33-_111 
Page 2
Abt-
ncide                                       It~~~~~~~~~h.D  la  IIS   degre
WIP TGOlMCI (cont'd)
hKagement                                                    I    4    -    10
Nusmess Adm.nietration                                      -    3   10      -
Nletory of Technology                                       I    -    -       I
Ore Gongos                                                  1    2    -      -
b tallurgy                                                  -    3    -      2
Applied Ceophyalca                                          -    4    -      2
Agriculture  ingime rtng                                    1   10   10      5
CQ4etic I Mroem.ut                                          -    I    -      2
TIssue Culture Euginuering                                   I   -    -    10
Nicrobiolouy/iology                                         2    5   15      5
LAgS1 Pattnt *od Contract                                   I    -    -      S
System Anyalsi                                              4   10   IS      -
lbch.ical tEgineerIng                                      3   10   10      -
Uiotechnol,gp                                               -    5   15      -
Naval                                                       2    2    5      -
Veteriary                                                   -    4   10      -
Architecture                                                2    h   20      -
Civil Iagtnertng and TVchonology                            4    2    -      -
Energy                                                      3    7   10      -
Total                                                   46  155  229    82
_ _,_ter                                                    -    -    -      5
_eonooms                                                   3    4    -      -
Demoraphy                                                   1    -
Agriculture Statistics                                      2    -    -      4
Mathematical Statistic                                      -    -    -      3
i tisaal Account                                            3    3    -      2
rasebold                                                    -    3        -  -
labor Statitics                                             -    2    -      3
ft atitics                                                  3          -     4
Data ~Alysis                                                                 6    
Frice Statitics                                            -    -    -      3
llfare Statltics                                            -    2    -      3
Ilectrnic Data Proesslg                                    -    -    -      4
noageunst Inforstlon System                                 -    4    -      3
Data sme                                                    -    I    -      2
Other Uslated nields                                        -    3    -      -
Total                                                   12   30    -    42
LAPAN
Sipctroecopy                                                -    -    -      3
CGeOatIsC                                                   -    I    -       2
Ionopheric Pye                                              I    -    -      I
Ionopb.ric Data    lys                                      I    -    -      3
Ionospheric lustrumestotin                                  -    I    -      2
4tlcal Solar  hysice                                        I    -    -      3
Solar Sodlo   ies                                           -    I    -      3
Cpto Electronlc                                             -    -    -      1
Ulectronics                                                 _    _           3
Applied lMthemtics                                          1          -     1
Iaformttcs                                                  -    -    -    11
System  alys                                                2    -    -      -
luid    cancs                                               -    1    _      3
Areonatics                                                                   3
Nsehaitcal Eglnsriug                                        -    -    -       3
Proplalos                                                   -    I    -      2
Composite Material                                          -    1    -      2
Adhesivs and Coiolte                                        -    - -         2
eabuati.  4tg                                               -    t    -      2
Tachnic.l IMangement                                        -    -    -      2
lndtstral bWIg .riLug                                       -    -    -      2



-34-
Ann6
Non-
Wields                                                    Ph.D  MS   US   deRree
LAPAN (cont'd)
Solar Energy                                               I   -    -       2
Space Law                                                  -    -    -      3
Computer Sclence                                           -    2    -     -
Operations Research                                        2    2    -      5
Space liomedicine                                          1    2    -      3
unsiness Adminlistration                                   -    I   -       2
Management                                                 -    2   -       3
Socioeconomics                                             1    -    -      2
Ditital lmage Analysls and Processing                      1    1   -       6
Digital Electronics                                        -    -    -      2
Svace Power System                                         -    I   -
Astro Elastlcity                                           -    -    -      1
Propulsion Systems                                         -    I   -       1
Metallurgy                                                 -    -    -      3
Image Analysis for Meteorological Satellites               2    1   -       4
Data Processing Analysis for Environmnt                    -    1   -      -
Comunication Science                                       -    2    -      R
Information Science                                        1    1   -    10
Total                                                  15   25    -   109
LIPI
Biology                                                    3    2    4     -
Chemistry                                                 11   12    9    13
Nicrobiology                                               5    2    -      4
Genetlcs                                                   9    -    -     -
Physics                                                    4    a    -      1
Gceanography                                               2    2    -
Geology                                                    1    6    -     -
Mining                                                     3    5    -
Geography                                                  1    1   -       1
Fishery                                                    1    1    -      1
Cattle Breeding                                            1    1   -      -
Axtrculture                                                1    2    -     -
Forestry                                                   -    I   -      -
Soil Science                                               -    3    -     -
Rorticulture                                               2    2    -     -
Pharmacology                                               1    2    4      4
Oil  clence                                                -    1   -       -
Food Technology                                            4    1    -     4
R£otechnology                                              5    2    -     -
Industrial Technology                                      -    2    -     -
Instrumentation                                            -    7    -     -
Mechanlcs                                                  2    7   14      -
Physics Engineering                                        2    3    -      -
Computer                                                   1   10    5      5
Electronics                                                5   25   22      -
P.lectrotechnlques                                         1    a   11      2
Metallurgy                                                 -    I   -       -
Food Technology                                            I   -    -      -
Ecoe,.omics                                                     3    -     -
Law                              _                              I   -       -
Civil Engineering                                          2    1    -     -
Demography                                                 -    I   -       1
Ecology                                                    -                I -  1
Polymer                                                    1    1   -      -
Zoology                                                   17    1    -     -
Lymnology                                                  1    -    -      -
Narine Science                                             5    6    -      -
Mathematics                                                2    4    -      -
Management                                                 3   10    -      3
Total                                                  97  146   69    40



- 35 -
AWNC 6
Non-
Fields                                                    Ph.D  NS   BS   degree
PUSPIPTEL
Fundamentals of Management                                 -    -    -      3
Personnel Management for Local Development                 -    -    -      2
Office Management                                          -    -    -      5
Computer in Management & Development                       -    -    -      4
Computer Applications                                      -    -    -      4
Water Resource Engineering                                 -    -    -      2
Public Utilities                                           -    -    -      2
Public Works                                                                I _    _  1
Industrial Relations                                       -    -    -      2
Fire Fighting                                              -    -    -      2
Science Center Study                                       -    -    -      2
Planning and Naintenance of Industrial Estates             -    -    -      1
Telecommunications                                         -    -    -      4
Library Works                                              -    -    -      4
Environmental Realth                                       -    -    -      4
Procurement and Contract                                   -    -    -      3
Financial Management Local Development Administration    -    -    -        1
Nanagement Science Engineers                               -    -    -      2
Research and Development Programs                          -    -    -      2
Public Relations                                           -    -    -      2
Purebasing and Inventory Control                           -    -    -      1
Transportation and Handling                                -    -    -      1
Total                                                   -    -    -    54



-36-
ANNEN   7
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECENOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
-Budget of the Research Institutes, 1984-85
Development     Recurrent
budget          budget           Total
Institute                              -      -      in million Rupiah
Indonesiaa Institutes of
Sciences (LIPI)                          8,195           4,772          12,967
National Institute of Aero-
nautics and Space (LARAN)                4,988            1,045          6,033
National Atomic Energy
Agency (BATAN)                          15,326            3,045         18,371
Agency of the Assessment
& Application of
Techology (BPPT)                         7,255           6,600          13,855
National Coordinating Agency
for Surveys and Mapping                  2,973              543          3,516
Central Bureau of Statistics
(BPS)                                   16,100           7,749          23,849
Total                            54,837           23,754          78,591



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Budget for Local Training Program
(in miliIon ruplah)
Fiscal year
Budget                       1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92         Total
Development budget             1,540     1,700     1,850     2,000     2,200      2,400     2,650       14,340
Routine budget                  200        220       240       265       290        320       350        1,885
Total                    1,740      1,920     2,090     2,265     2,490      2,720     3,000       16,225
Breakdown
Program          Number             Unit cost           Total
(man-years)          -- in million ruplah -
83                  150                  3.0              450
82                2,250                   3.0           6,750
S1                  750                  0.5              375
Nondegree        15,000 man-months        0.5           7,500
Other costs                                             1,150
16,225



INDONESIA
SCI3NCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
The Project Nanagement System
Progrem  Implementation Unit                                           Consultants                                    Educational Exchange Orgnsanition
Identification of TrinnNed
Assure that each LPND and other sponsoring agency          Assist the PIU as required.
review and revise its program annually.
Selection of Fellows at Central Project Level
Develop written selection criteria for candidates.    Prepare recomaended selection criteria and a pro-
posed program of the application of such criteria
Develop IntervLew selection criteria for candi-            for the review of PIU.
dates.
Develop motivational tests for screening candidates.
Develop aptitude tests for *creening candidates.
Arrange the implementation of the approved progrea.
Select and supervise subcontractors for this pro-
gram.
Selection of Overseas Institutions
Select educational exehnage organitations for pro-    Assist the PIU to select EECe as required.                        Provide data on and assist in evaluation of institu-
gram support In host countries.                                                                                         tions.
Assist the PIU in contracting with UEOs.
Select training Institutions for overseas train-
Ing.                                                       Develop the data necessary for selectlon of ovotseas
inatituttons.
Coordinate and guide the ISOs contribution.
Suwarise and evaluate the information and prepare a
recommended short list.
Identify in detail adalsston requirement and proce-
dures.
Identify In detail all costs associated with each
progra. 
Plan and coordinate the visits to short-listed
institutions.



Program  Implementation Unit                                           Consultants                                    Educational Exchange Organimation
Identification of Fundint
Develop costing paremeters.                                Specify inputs needed to develop and maintain cost-
ing parameters.
Decide on the most effective use of funding for
fellowships by country and by subject.                     Prepare necessary data to establish the cost parame-
terns
Davis or revise cost paraeetaec based on the data
available.
Predegree Training
Determine the areas of predegree training In both          Asiust the PIU In determining the type and scale of
Indonesia and the country of oversees training.            predegree training In Indonesia and In the country
of overseas training.
Approve arrangment. for such training.
Prepare a reconmended progrm to meat these training
Servc as contractor for predegree training when            needs.
appropriate.
Arrange for the implementation of the predegree
training program.
Aesilt In selection, arrang int of subcontracts and
contract negotiations as requested.
Placoent Enrollment and HAintenance of follows in
Overseas Institutions
Identify the appropriate program  for each fellow          Coordtnate the placeaent, enrollment and maintenance         Perform all necessary steps on procedure, to place
or group of follows.                                       proees.                                                     fellows in program  decigpated by the PIU.
Provide the BEO with guidance on provision of all                                                                       Inform the PIU and Local Agency of any changes In
types of support for fellows.                                                                                           programs, coste or legal requiresente.
Provide the EDO with funds for their disbursing
agent function.
Hoiltorin2 and Evaluation
DeVise or approve proposed procedures and stan-            Assist the PIU to design and develop a comprehensive         Provide such data as may be required.
dards that permit the Minister or Steering Commit-    monitoring system on all relevant elements in the
toe to oversee the total program.                          programs.
Specify the components of a comprehensive monitor-    Assist the FIU to operate the monitoring system.
Ing system.
Prepare evaluations based on the output of the moni-
toring system.



Program Implementation Unit                                            Consultants                                    Educational Exchange Organisation
Rainteuration of Pellow to Pout
Assure that each LPhD is kept fully informed as to    Carry out such functions or arrange such programs an
the status of their returning fellows.                     the PIU may direct.
See that re-entry programs prior to duties in the
fellows are properly arranged.
See that as necesmary, arrangements are made for
the presentation of research results of returning
fellows.
Development of Data Base
Develop a data base to support the implementation          Assist the PIU In the design and definition of the           Provide the data base input, In the form and detail
and management of this program.                            data base.                                                   specified, on the academic records of the fellows,
admission requirements and procedures, cost factors
Develop a data base to provide an operational              Be the source for the training prograas, the admis-          and training program elements of the system.
Infrastructure for training programs more                  asone requiremente and procedures, and the cost fac-
generally,                                                 tor components of the data base.
Maintain the data base on a current basis.                 Gencrelly, coordinate the inputs on fellows' acade-
mic records.
g



-41-                        ANNEX 9b
:1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     I
i                 U   _____~~~~~~~~~~ I
.-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
...
us~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 42 -                                  AIANU 9c
Page 1
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRANINGC PROJECT
Staffing of the OFPIU
The OFPIU has been operating since September, 1984. The OFPIU
members consist of staff froi the LPNDs who normally work in Education and
Training Division (DIKLAT). The Project Steering Committee, made up of
representatives from each LPIa, has been meeting on a bi-weekly basis since
July, 1984 to discuss policy and implementation issues, and to review and
assist the work of the OFPIU.
Responsibilities of Key OFPIU Staff
Head
1.   All activities of project unit, both policy and administrative.
2.   Relationship with Steering Committee, Ristek, and LPND's.
3.   Liaison with other government departments, donors, agencies.
4.   Selection and supervision of local and international contractors (EEO's).
5.   Submissin of monthly, quarterly, and annual reports of work of OFPIU to
Steering Committee.
6.   Submission of reports to World Bank.
Executive Secretary
1.   Day-to-day administration of OFPIU.
2.   Coordinating and setting up all meetings (also secretary to Steering
comnittee).
3.   Supervision of all financial and record keeping activities of OPPIU.
4.   Contract arrangements with contractors (local and international).
In-country Program Officer
1.   Selection procedures.
2.   Preparation of pre-departure courses.
3.   Setting up system for keeping student records.
4.   Monitoring of students in Indonesia.
5.   Departure preparations.
6.   Family liaison.
7.   Liaison with local sub-contractors/consultants.
8.   Liaison with LPNDs.
9.   Standardized testing coordination.



-                      ~~~~~~~ANNEX 9c
Page 2
Overseas Program Officer
1.   Establishment and maintenance of information base on courses overseas.
2.   Placement/application to overseas institutions.
3.   University degree program contacts.
4.   Liaison with embassies in Jakarta.
5.   Liaison with overseas contractors/agencies.
6.   Placement recommendations.
7.   Liaison with Indonesian Embassies abroad.
8.   Coordination of overseas preparation courses.
9.   Post-training reorientation and follow-up.
10. Contacts with non-degree programs.
Finance Officer
1.   Development of a comprehensive financial administration and monitoring
system.
2.   Overall financial administration.
3.   Preparation of financial reports (monthly, quarterly, and annually).
4.   Electronic transfer of funds to students.
Administrative Officer
1.   All Government clearances including visas, passport, consultant
clearances, etc.
2.   Administration of OFPIU including personnel and transport.
Records Officer
1.  All OFPIU records.
2.  Compile personal data on each fellow.
3.   Review changes in the personal data.
4.   Record all educational activity.
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
1.   Develop a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system.
2.   Monitor and evaluate the correlation between the standard test result
with the Fellows achievement aboard in cooperation with In-country
Program Officer and Overseas Program Officer.
3.   Periodic evaluation of Fellows based on the regular report submitted to
the Overseas Program Officer by EEO and Language Schools.
4.   Periodic evaluation of the language schools and Universities and their
education programs.
5.   Monitor and evaluate administration and finance, in cooperation with
Finance Officer and Administration Officer.
6.   Monitor and evaluate the management efficiency of the OFPIU with the
Executive Secretary.



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Project Implmentatton Schedule
cAINM 4.7                                             I I        eL1          is 49  I
1i, pt !t ^,  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Ommeas FeUowship Program Schedule for UndrWgrduates
NMBWER
Of PERSON
325
275 -                                                                                                    in Tht Year
250                                                                                                      *A That Yea
225
100
¶75
125
100
*   985         1986        1987         1988          1989          1990         1991        1992          1993
YEAR
YAMd Bar*-26775!I



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRMNING PROJECT
MSc
NUMBER
OF PERSON
500
X11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0     lin |Thcd Yee
200  -
100 -
280  -
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
PhD
NUMBER
OfP ERSON
250
szs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~ _                     sV i
160_
.75      .*                                            a*.hd VOW .%
/~~
125~~~~~~-b
75~~~~~~~~~5
25
198      1966      1967      1966       1969      19         1991
VW Ist -2677



-48-
ANNEX 11.
SCIENCE S  TEUGLOT  EEMSI PIRECT
S:mN Account baa ProiJet Cumonunt
(RWMNH Billio)
WEEIIS FELLOISIIP P0         I          -WI                                                      Puical
L-A                  ERDUTION                                  Coniowtensin
PRE -  3116R    OESAS         TRIUIIN    FPPIU      EVlSl   CUSULTANT REINIETMTIE
PRE TIW      SlUID    RESEACR PROM    WPAI3TIONS WITIIS  5EIPJICES            Pil3*      Total   t   aost
1. EETINENTDf COSTS
A. TUITIOl  MD SSSTDICE                   14.1    49.4         -                                                             63.5  10.0    6.4
Musical ConUtnlies                      1.4      4.9        -        -          -             -          -             -   6.4   0.0    0.0
Price Cmtinuncius                       3.6      12.3        -        -          -            -          -             -  15.3   9.1    1.4
Stb-Total ICUDIING  OuTICIES              19.1     66.6        -        -          -             -          -            -  E3.7   9.1    7.8
Foreigfn Exdoe                          17.2    66.6         -        -          -            -          -             -  B3.8   9.1    7.6
B. TIJEL                                     -      4.9        -        -        0.8             -          -            -   5.7  10.0    0.6
Phsical Continieics                       -       0.5        -        -        0.1            -          -             -   0.6   0.0    0.0
Price Continrains                         -      1.2        -        -         0.2            -          -             -   1.4   9.1    0.1
Sub-ToaLl INCLNDING CCNTiIIENCES             -      6.6        -        -         1.0            -          -            -   7.7   9.1    0.7
Foreisn Excdme                            -       5.1        -        -        0.7            -          -             -   5.9   9.1    0.5
C. FAINLY SPPET                              -     20.4        -        -          -             -          -            -  20.4  10.0    2.0
bsical Cinranies                          -      2.0        -         -          -            -          -             -   2.0   0.0    0.0
Price C6,tisacius                         -      5.7        -         -         -             -          -             -   5.7   9.1    0.5
Sat-Total DINCUIDIG  2IT10CIES               -     3.2         -        -          -             -          -            -  21.2   9.1    2.6
Foreia Exejame                            -       1.9        -        -          -            -          -             -   1.9   9.1    0.2
D. RSEARCNIAUME                              -        -      0.9        -          -             -          -          1.1   2.0  10.0    0.2
Phical Coinueries                         -        -       0.1        -          -            -          -           0.1   0.2   0.0    0.0
Price Cuntiaies                           -        -      0.2         -         -             -          -           0.5   0.3   9.1    0.1
S=t-Total IIE 6ING COTNES                    -        -      1.3        -          -             -          -           1.7   3.0   9.1    0.3
Forein Exce                               -        -       0.8        -          -            -          -             -   O.3   91l    0.1
E. CULWTAr SERVICES                          -        -      0.3        -                      ;..        3.6            -   8.3  10.0    0.3
Pusial CtaUmnis                           -        -       0.0        -          -          0.4        0.4             -   0.3   0.0   0o.0
Price Catinrwis                           -        -       0.1       -          -           1.1        C.9             -   2.1   9.1    0.2
Sat-Totl INCUDIIIG COIUEJCEES                -        -      0.4        -          -           5.9        4.9            -  11.2   9.1    1.0
FPrian ExcIsae.                                            0.4        -          -          5.9        2.9             -   9.2   9.1    0.9
F. LOCAL TRAINIII                            -        -        -      17.D         -             -          -            -  17.3  10.0    1.8
Phssieml Cntiancies                       -        -         -      1.3          -            -          -             -   1.3   0.0    0.0
Price Curtiuamies                         -        -        -       3.4         -             -          -             -   9.4   9.1    0.9
Sat-Totl llUIDING CTINDJICES                 -        -        -     20.1          -             -          -            -  3.1   9.1    2.6
6. EIIPNIIT                                  -        -        -        -         0.2            -          -            -   0.2  10.0    0.0
Phscal Cantinmncies                       -        -        -        -         0.0            -          -            -   0.0   0.0    0.0
Price Cmntian.cirs                        -        -        -         -        0.1            -          -            -   0.1   9.1    0.0
Sut-ToLal DICNIDG COHTDNIHES                 -        -        -        -        0.3             -          -            -   0,3   9.1    0.0
Foreign Excdne                            -        -        -         -        0.3            -          -            -   0.3   9.1    0.0
H. BDOOG MMJAULS                             -        -        -        -          -             -          -          0.3   0.3  13.0    0.0
Pbsiead Cantuniueies                      -        -        -        -          -             -          -           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
Price Catinsawies                         -        -        -         -                                  -           0.1   0.1   9.1    0.o
Sb-Total IlCLWING CTINENCES                  -        -        -        -          -             -         -           0.4   0.4   9.1    0.0
Foreign Exclarge                          -                                     -             -          -           0.4   0.4   9.1    0.0
1. PlUl CIRATI1lHS                           -        -        -        -        3.3             -         -             -   3.3  10.0    0.3
Pisical Cogingncies                       -        -        -         -        0.3            -          -             -   0*3   0.0    0.0
Price  Iamncies                           -                                    D .?           -          -            -   0.9   9.1    0.1
Sur-Total DICDIN  CETIHIE?CIES              -        -        -        -        4.6             -          -            -   4.6   ?.1    0.4
Total IITIEIT  COSTS                         14.1    74,7       1.2     17.8        4.3           4.4        3.6          1.3 121.5  10.0   12.2
Pusical Cantiunaies                        1.4      7.5      0.1       1.9        0.4          0.4        0.4          0.1  12.2   0.0    0.0
Price Centines                             3.6     19.2      0.3      9.4         1.2          1.1        0.9          0.7  35.4   9.1    3.2
Totl IaCUDNs aiONIINSICIES                   19.1    101.4      1.7     29.1        5.9           5.9        4.9          2.1  169.2   9.1   15.4
Foreign Exlam                             17.2    73.6       1.2        -         1.0          5.9        2.9          0.4  102.3   9.1    9.3
Total BEIIIIE LUST                            14.1    74.7       1.2    17.9         4.3           4.4       3.6           1.3 121.5  10.0   12.2
Phesicl Cotinswics                          1.4      7.5      0.1      1.9        0.4           0.4        0.4          0.1  12.2   0.0    0.0
Prie Cmnenius                               3.6     19.2      0.3      3.4        I.;           1.1        0.9          0.7  35.4   9.1    3.2
Toael MRIECT CUTS                             19.1    101.4      1.7    23.1         5.9           5.9       4.9           2.1  169.1   9.1   15.4
amaa   an    mane   vmamma. matmas.. mama   xmasS    S                              5
Foir Ex ihfl                               17.2    73.4       1.2        -        1.0           5.9        2.9          0.4 102.3   9.1    9.3
;   ril 2. 1995 15:17



- 49 -
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AN  TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT                       AE=  lLb
SUMARY ACCOITS COST StUM9
(RUPIAH Billion)      (USS Million)                Z Total
Z Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange    Costs
It INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TUITION AND SUBSISTENCE     1.4   62.1  63.5    1.3   56.5  57.7           98      52
B. TRAWEL                      1.3    4.3  5.7   1.2    3.9  5.1              77        5
C. FAMILY SUPPORT             19.0    1.4 20.4  17.3    1.3  18.6              7       17
B. RESEARCH ALLOMANCE          1.4    0.6  2.0    1.3       0.6  1.8          31        2
E. CONSULTANT SERVICES         1,5    6.8  8.3   1.4        6.2  7.5          82        7
F. LOCAL TRAININ6             17.8       -  17,8  16.2        -  16.2          -       15
6. EQUIPMENT                     -    0.2  0,2        -    0.2  0.2          100        0
H. BOOKS ANDJOURNALS             -    0.3  0.3        -    0.2  0.2          100        0
I. PIU OPERATIONS              3.3       -  3.3   3.0         -   3.0          -        3
Total BASELINE COSTS              45.7   75.8 121.5  41.6   68.9 110.5            62      100
Phssical Continsencies          4.6    7.6  12,2   4.2       6.9  11.0         62       10
Price Continmncies             16.5   18.9  35.4  15.0   17.2  32.2            53       29
Total PROJECT COSTS               66.8   102.3 169.1  60.7   93,0 153.7           60      139
April 29 1985 15:19



-50-                            ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Financing Plan
Government       IBRD       Total    IBRD Share
(US$ million)     -%)
Overseas fellowships, study
tours and predegree training       25.3         77.0        102.3         75
Research allowance                     1.8         0.7          2.5          28
Consultant services                    1.7         7.8          9.5         82
Local training                        24.0         0.0         24.0           0
Equipment                              0.0         0.3          0.3         100
Books and journals                     0.0         0.3          0.3        100
PIt operating costs                    3.8         0.0          3.8           0
Unallocated                            4.1         6.9         11.0          63
Total                          60.7         93.0        153.7         60



-51-                              ANNEX 13
:                                - ~~~~~~~~~~51 -
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
IBRD                       Disbursements             %        Regional education
Fiscal                 Seuester    Cumulative        of       disbursement profile
year      Semester   -US$ million --               Total             (%)
FY86        1st            1.0             1.0         1
2nd           2.0              3.0         3                1
FY87        1st             1              4           4               3
2ad             2               6          6               6
FY88        1st            4               10         10              10
2ad            5               15         16              16
FY89        1st            7               22         24              23
2ad            8              30          32              31
FY90        1st           10              40          43              40
2nd            10              50         54              49
FY91        1st           10               60         65              57
2nd           10              70          75              66
FY92        1st            8              78          83              73
2nd            8              86          92              79
FY93        1st            7              93         100              85



-52 -                             ANNEX 14
INDONESIA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TRAINING PROJECT
Selected documents and Data Available in the Project File
A    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subject.
A.1  IBRD, "Indonesia:  Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation," April 26, 19A4.
A.2 USAID, "General 'Participant Training II, Project Paper," April 1Q83.
A.3 Nobukagu Tanji, "The Evalution of the ITS-Indonesian Educational
Relationship, 1950-83. The activities of US Aid Agencies and the
Development of Universities in Indonesia," June 1Q84.
A.4 "Mobilization of Engineers in Indonesia," Indonesian Institute of
Engineers, Jakarta, December 1982.
B    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project.
B.1  Loan Request for Research and Technology Training project,. Office of
the Minister of State for Research and Technology, Jakarta, August
1984.
B.2  Prof. Dr. Ing B.J. Habibie, "Some Thoughts Concerning a Strategy for
the Industrial Transformation of a Development Country," June 14,
1983.
B.3  UNESCO, "Proposed Staff Development Program for Graduate Education,"
December 1983.
C    Working Papers.



lBRD 17MRIm
A2~    i        13WA4
South China                                                          MUSPWS            PCr1980Yem-aaper~i
Cebhiu Sea ~~~"  4-k3 '4-'S~~ ""  '~ ""
Indloti. Ocoall~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                        d
4v ~    ~    3 



