Report No. PID6412
Project Name                     Bolivia-Regulatory Reform and (+) ...
Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Technical Assistance
Project ID                       BOPE57396
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Contact:
Mr. Miguel Lopez
Vice Minister of Public Investment
and External Cooperation
Ministry Of Finance
Palacio de Communicaciones, Piso 19
La Paz, Bolivia
Tel: 011-591-2-392220
Fax: 011-591-2-359955
Environmental Category           B
Date PID Prepared                May 14, 1998
Appraisal (planned)              May 27, 1998
Board Date (planned)             June 30, 1998
1.      Background.  Achieving strong sustainable growth in Bolivia has been a
key issue since the successful stabilization of the economy in 1985.
Successive governments have engaged in structural reforms which have reduced
economic distortions and a strong public sector presence in the economy.
However, only recently has a basic regulatory framework for the financial and
infrastructure sectors been established and a set of key enterprises been
privatized. Deepening of financial services still needs to be furthered, and
the competitive environment for the remaining real sectors of the economy -
agro-business, industry, and commerce - still needs to be addressed. While
the country achieved solid growth of 3.3 percent per year on average during
1990-96 (slightly above the LAC average), this performance has been below
hopes and expectations. Difficulties restoring confidence in an economy which
has suffered hyper-inflation and delays and shortcomings in the extent of
structural reforms, as well as very weak institutional capacity, have
constrained private sector development and thus contributed to the gap between
potential and actual performance.
2.      In response to this situation, the current Government has endorsed a
National Action Plan based on four pillars: opportunity (generation of growth
with better distribution), institutionality (strengthening of the
institutional framework), equity (an increase in the living standards of the
poor), and dignity (removal of the country from the drug circuit by the year
2002). Generating growth through the strengthening of the financial sector
and the creation of sound supporting institutions that allow the private
sector to operate in a transparent and predictable environment are two main
objectives of the Government's development strategy. This project and a
parallel adjustment operation (the Regulatory Reform and Privatization



Adjustment Credit) have been designed to contribute to the achievement of
those objectives.
3.      Project Objectives and Description.   The International Development
Association's proposed project intends to support the Government's initiatives
in strengthening regulatory reform in the financial, infrastructure, and
business sectors, in privatizing state-owned enterprises, and in improving the
provision of infrastructure services. The development objectives of the
project are as follows: (i) strengthen the stability and efficiency of the
financial sector; (ii) enhance the legal and regulatory framework for
infrastructure and business; and (iii) promote improved provision of goods and
services through the privatization of state-owned enterprises and the reform
of public-service cooperatives.
4.      To achieve these objectives, the proposed project is financing technical
assistance, project management, and some goods and equipment. The components
of the proposed project are as follows:
(a)     Financial Sector Regulation Component:   This project component
concentrates on banking sector and non-banking financial sector regulations
and institutional development. Technical assistance, consisting primarily of
assistance in drafting legislation and regulations and institution building
activities, would be directed toward the following outputs: (i) creation of a
deposit guarantee fund; (ii) legal, regulatory, and normative changes to
financial institution supervision; (iii) legal and regulatory changes related
to the evaluation of financial-sector risks; (iv) reforms related to financial
institutions' access to liquidity; (v) clarification of the institutional
structure of supervisory and regulatory authorities; and (vi) enhancement of
the supervisory capabilities of the insurance and pensions sectors and capital
markets;
(b)     Infrastructure and Business Regulation Component:   This project
component focuses on cross-sector regulatory reform and sector-specific
regulatory reform in infrastructure. Technical assistance would include: (i)
revision of the regulatory framework law and support to the improvement of the
institutional relationship between the general regulatory authority and the
executive branch of the Government, including revision of oversight and
monitoring responsibilities; (ii) drafting of an administrative procedures
law; (iii) drafting of a competition law and institutional support for a new
competition authority; (iv) drafting of a general transport law and concession
regulations and institutional development of the transport superintendency;
(v) regulatory development within the hydrocarbons sector and institutional
strengthening of the Vice Ministry for Energy and Hydrocarbons; and (vi)
regulatory development of PCS services and long-distance and local telephone
service (assistance in the telecommunications sector would also include
technical assistance on interconnection, billing, numbering, quality of
service, and interconnection pricing.
(c)     Privatization Component: This project component focuses on support
for (i) the divestiture of state-owned enterprises, including national
hydrocarbons company (YPFB) enterprises, the water company of Cochabamba, the
national smelting company (VINTO), and national railway (ENFE) assets; and
(ii) the improvement in the delivery of local public services (water,
electricity, telephone) by cooperatives through adequate enforcement of
service standards and, where necessary, changes to the cooperative legal
structure. Technical assistance will comprise financial, legal, and technical
analysts to assist in enterprise and asset privatization, assistance to the
establishment, promulgation, and enforcement of performance targets in
- 2-



concession contracts and licenses, and environmental audits where applicable.
(d)     Program Implementation Support Component:   As the Government of
Bolivia has committed itself to wide-ranging reforms in nearly all aspects of
infrastructure and business reform and liberalization, including divestiture
of state-owned assets, the proposed project will support a public information
campaign with the objective of reaching out to the public and facilitating
understanding and consensus among stakeholders. A full time public
information advisor funded by the project, with the assistance of short-term
experts, will identify public perceptions of the regulatory reform and
privatization program and develop a communications strategy to effectively
disseminate the objectives and instruments of the program.
5.      Project Cost and Financing.   The overall cost is US$26.3 million
(including contingencies). The financing plan includes an IDA credit of
US$20.0 million.
6.      Rationale for IDA Involvement.   While the Government of Bolivia has
taken strong ownership of this operation, IDA played an important catalytic
role in focusing the attention of a large number of agencies on the need to
advance the design and implementation of the reform measures supported by this
project. IDA's wide-ranging experience in the design of technical assistance
for all the sectors addressed by this project provided an additional benefit
for the formulation of a coherent program of activities
7.      Project Implementation.   The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has overall
project implementation coordination responsibility and direct executive
responsibility for the Program Implementation Support component. A project
unit will be established within the MOF and will be in charge of project
implementation. The unit will be responsible for procurement in accordance
with Bank Guidelines and the facilitation of disbursements for all project
activities. It will coordinate the provision of technical assistance services
to the various recipients of technical assistance (Ministries, the Central
Bank, and regulatory agencies).
8.      The project has been assigned an environmental category of "B" in
accordance with Operational Directive 4.01. Please see Annex, Environmental
Aspects, for a description of the proposed project's indirect environmental
impacts.
9.      Contact Point:           Axel Peuker, TM
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 22, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project has received a Categor B rating in accordance with
Operational Directive 4.01. The project is solely technical assistance and
capacity building and will have no direct negative impact on the environment.
Two aspects of the project may have environmental implications:
(i)     the introduction of concessions laws and regulations in transport and
water and sanitation, and
(ii)    the divestiture of remaining public sector enterprises of the
hydrocarbons company (YPFB) and of four electricity distribution companies.
In order to mitigate negative environmental impacts that could result
from changes in concessions laws and regulations and the divestiture of public
sector enterprises, a half-time environmental consultant will be hired as part
of the project. The consultant will ensure that all aspects of the project
will have either full EAs or audits/site assessments completed as required on
on environmentally sensitive privatization activities. The consultant will
coordinate closely with the Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons on the
clearance of EAs and mitigation studies/ audits of companies operating in the
hydrocarbon sector.
-4-



